            Document of
         The World Bank




                                    Report No: 27814

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (SCL-37880)

              ON A

              LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$175 MILLION

    TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

              CHINA

             FOR THE

   SHENYANG INDUSTRIAL REFORM
             PROJECT




           March 25, 2004

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective December 19, 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan (Y)
                            Y 1 = US$ 0.12
                          US$ 1 = Y8.2769

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1    December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOCOM      Bank of Communications
CAE        Country Assistance Evaluation
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CNC        Computer Numeric-Controlled
COF        Cofinancing
CSRC       China Securities Regulation Commission
CTF        Consultant Trust Fund
ECA        Europe and Central Asia
EPB        Shenyang's Environmental Protection Bureau
ESW        Economic and Sector Work
ETC        Environmental Training Center
FDI        Foreign Direct Investment
FIE        Foreign-invested Enterprise
FMS        Financial Management Specialist
FRR        Financial Rate of Return
GOC        Government of China
GOVT.      Government
HR         Human Resource
HWTF       Hazardous Waste Treatment Facility
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICBC       Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
LPE        Large Private Enterprise
LUR        Land Use Right
M&A        Merger and Acquisition
MCE        Municipal-controlled Enterprise
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MTR        Mid-term Review
NBF        Non-Bank Financed
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NPC        National People's Congress
OECD       Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCD        Project Concept Document
PFI        Participating Financial Institution
PSD        Private Sector Development
QAG        Quality Assurance Group

SAMB               State Asset Management Bureau
SAOC               State Asset Operating Company
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SASAC              State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission
SCL                Single Currency Loan
SEMIS              Shenyang Environmental Management Information System
SESB               Shenyang Employment Service Bureau
SIRP               Shenyang Industrial Reform Project
SIWWMS             Shenyang Industry Waste Water Monitoring System
SME                Small and Medium Enterprise
SMG                Shenyang Municipal Government
SMTCL              Shenyang Machine Tool Company Limited
SOCB               State-owned Commercial Bank
SOE                State-owned Enterprises
SPMO               Shenyang Project Management Office
SPRTC              Shenyang Property Rights Transaction Center
TF                 Trust Fund
TL                 Task Leader
USD                United States Dollar
WBG                World Bank Group
WWMS               Waste Water Monitoring System

                        Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                     Country Director     Yukon Huang
                       Sector Manager     Khalid Mirza
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     William Mako

                                            CHINA
                            SHENYANG INDUSTRIAL REFORM


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Partner Comments                                                        26

Project ID: P003585                                                  Project Name: SHENYANG IND. REFORM
Team Leader: William Peter Mako                                      TL Unit: EASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SHENYANG IND. REFORM                                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-37880
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (69%); General industry and trade sector (24%);
                            Sub-national government administration (3%); Water supply (2%);
                            Solid waste management (2%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (S); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S); Social risk reduction (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/02/1992                                     Effective: 02/15/1995                04/11/1995
     Appraisal: 11/12/1993                                         MTR: 05/31/1997                  04/11/1997
      Approval: 09/06/1994                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOC/SMG & SMTCL & ICBC & BOCOM
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:                 Khalid Mirza                                   Richard Newfarmer
Team Leader at ICR:             William Mako                                   Austin Hu
ICR Primary Author:             William Mako


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. The objectives and design of the Shenyang Industrial Reform Project (SIRP) need to be assessed
in the context of the unique circumstances of China's industry in the early 1990s. Industrial sectors were
highly fragmented, with many small and uneconomic manufacturers. Industrial enterprises were heavily
over-staffed and burdened with requirements to maintain social service facilities unrelated to their core
business.     Technologically-obsolescent state-owned enterprises (SOEs) produced inferior goods
increasingly inappropriate for a rapidly developing market; damaged the environment through air/water
emissions and hazardous solid wastes; and lacked basic marketing, financial management, and other
business management skills. There was no practical distinction between government administration and
SOE administration. SOEs basically operated as sub-units for various industrial bureaus in the local
government. In many cases, SOEs had not even adopted a corporate form. The State's SOE ownership
rights were completely fragmented among many government and party organizations.               The focus of
industrial organization was on supporting social stability through production and full employment, rather
than traditional private sector goals of competitiveness and return on capital. These problems were
particularly rife in Shenyang, which was the center of old-style industrial development in northeastern
China.

Objectives. SIRP was intended to support China's transition to a market economy. (1) A key objective
was to help reform and reorganize Shenyang's industry, especially the engineering industry, by creating a
modern corporate-led industrial sector with substantial private participation that could increasingly allocate
resources on the basis of competitive market forces. (2) The Project was intended to create a new model of
business organization, with a focus on separating productive economic activities from government
bureaucracy and organizing these economic activities into corporate entities. (3) The Project was also
intended to support the expansion of private sector activities. (4) Finally, SIRP was intended to support the
enforcement of environmental standards to redress the substantial environmental degradation of the past
and ensure that industrial activity would henceforth be environmentally sustainable.

Thus, SIRP sought to achieve both systemic reforms (e.g., government/enterprise relations, environmental
protection) and the restructuring of an important enterprise, the Shenyang Machine Tool Company Ltd.
(SMTCL). The Project's strategy of restructuring a particular enterprise to provide a model for the
restructuring of other industrial enterprises, while ambitious, was consistent both with China's emphasis on
experimentation in managing its transition to a more market-based economy and with similar efforts in
other transition economies in Central/Eastern Europe.

The 1993 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) included an emphasis on SOE reform, private sector
development, and environment. SOE reform efforts were to focus on (i) corporatization of SOEs -- through
clarification of management autonomy and responsibility, separation of SOEs from the government
bureaucracy, and exercise of ownership functions through transparent shareholder mechanisms; (ii)
ownership diversification; and (iii) stronger accounting standards and business support services. Private
sector development (PSD) efforts sought a level playing field for domestic private business (in access to
capital, labor, markets, support services) and an efficient and transparent legal framework and procedures
for foreign direct investment (FDI). Environmental programs were to support the continued strengthening
of institutional capacity for environmental protection at the central, regional, provincial, and lower levels.
These goals were further elaborated in the May 1995 CAS, which stated that "special emphasis will be
given to reforming the SOEs by commercializing their operations, ending their dependence on subsidized
credit from the banking system, and transferring their social service functions to more appropriate
agencies." Bank Group assistance for SOE reform was to be guided by four principles: creation of



                                                      - 2 -

autonomous corporate enterprises; separation of social services from enterprises; exposure of enterprises to
market discipline; and greater flexibility in enterprise ownership to facilitate enterprise restructuring. In
environmental protection, the CAS stated that the Bank would "work with municipal and provincial
authorities to develop more effective enforcement of environmental regulations."

The Project was highly consistent with the 1993 CAS's emphases on SOE reform and environmental
protection. Training for officials was intended to support the separation of enterprise operations from
government administration, while SMTCL's restructuring and reform was intended to serve as a model for
other SOEs.     In environmental protection, the Project focused on training, technology transfer, and
infrastructure sub-components to increase the ability of the local authorities to enforce environmental
regulations. In the area of private sector development, the Project focused on greater access to capital for
private businesses through a Project-financed line of credit.

SIRP was a long project (original term of 7 years; extended to 9 years). The debate on SOE reform and
PSD has moved on since SIRP was approved in September 1994. In 1994, the emphasis was on separating
economic and bureaucratic functions and promoting greater autonomy for enterprises.               Today, the
emphasis in China's "state asset management reform" is more on unifying SOE ownership rights and
responsibilities in a designated shareholder -- a State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission (SASAC) -- that can exercise normal corporate governance over remaining SOEs. In the
broader area of private sector development in a transition economy, emphasis within the World Bank
Group (WBG) has expanded from the simple creation of private enterprises (e.g., through privatization
programs) and access to credit. WBG assessments of the investment climate for PSD now regularly cover
a broader range of issues -- e.g., barriers to entry, labor market flexibility, taxes, infrastructure, skills,
enforceability of contracts, and access to markets. Lastly, discussions of SOE reform must now pay
greater attention to safety nets for laid-off workers, impacts on the financial sector, and cost-sharing
between central and local governments.

SIRP was a complex project, involving reforms at a variety of municipal government agencies,
restructuring and reform at a large and distressed SOE, on-lending through two state-owned commercial
banks (SOCBs), and major environmental investments. Project activity was concentrated in Shenyang.
The Bank had previously done three industrial projects and an environmental project in Liaoning province.
While the counterparts thus had experience with administering Bank projects, SIRP's emphasis on systemic
reform was a departure from past projects.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Reform Program Support (US$4,000,000)

This component was to support the Shenyang Municipal Government's (SMG) reform effort by providing
training, consulting services, and equipment in six areas. (i) Training for SMG officials was intended to
deepen their understanding of market functions and the role of government in a market economy. The
program was to include more than 60 percent of officials in 26 bureaus responsible for economic and social
development (i.e., 1,600 out of 2,700 officials). (ii) Establishment of a labor market information system
was to improve the SMG's employment service operations and facilitate the development of the local labor
market. (iii) Training for industrial safety inspectors was intended to strengthen the Labor Bureau's ability
to enforce national occupational health and safety standards. (iv) To facilitate property transactions, a
property rights market component sought to develop legislation, simplify procedures, develop marketing



                                                     - 3 -

capacity, train staff, and equip and link a Property Rights Transaction Center with other Chinese cities. (v)
Support to the State Asset Management Bureau (SAMB) for the municipality was intended to enhance the
distinction between government administration and SOE administration through SAMB capacity-building;
and (vi) Support for the Shenyang College of Finance and Economics was intended to upgrade its
economics faculty.

Component 2: Line of Credit (US$40,000,000)

The Shenyang branches of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) and the Bank of
Communications (BOCOM) were designated as participating financial institutions (PFIs) to on-lend SIRP
proceeds to finance the modernization and restructuring of industrial enterprises other than SMTCL. Of
the original amount, up to $30 million could be used for SOEs while $10 million was to be used for private
enterprises. The PFIs were to bear the full credit risks for sub-lending and were responsible for appraisal
and supervision of sub-projects. Each sub-project was to meet the following eligibility criteria: (i) any
SOE sub-borrower should be organized as a shareholding company (either public or private), while a
private sub-borrower could be of any form; (ii) the sub-borrower should have good business prospects and
sound finances; (iii) the sub-project should have a minimum economic rate of return of 12 percent and a
minimum financial rate of return of 12 percent; (iv) the sub-borrower's up-front contribution should
amount to at least 20 percent of total cost of the sub-project; (v) the sub-project must meet Shenyang's
environmental standards; and (vi) loans to a single borrower could not exceed $4 million.

Component 3: Shenyang Machine Tools Company Ltd. (US$121,000,000)

SMTCL was created in 1993 through the merger of three separate SOEs engaged in the manufacture of
traditional machine tools (lathes, universal adaptors) and one SOE that manufactured control systems. A
1992/1993 feasibility study recommended the rehabilitation and modernization of existing facilities;
rationalization of manufacturing processes; enhancement of product quality to international standards,
including a shift in production to computer numeric-controlled (CNC) machine tools using imported
components; and establishment of an effective management process. Three existing foundries (all small,
obsolescent, and polluting) were to be replaced with a single, modern, environmentally-acceptable foundry.
Key components were to be outsourced. Non-core social assets (i.e., housing, clinic, schools, service
facilities) were to be hived off from SMTCL. The SMTCL workforce was to be downsized 30 percent,
from 23,000 staff to 16,000 staff, by 1998. To support these plans, loan proceeds were to finance the
procurement of equipment to produce sophisticated computer numeric-controlled (CNC) machine tools and
to upgrade product quality (about $100 million); technology transfer from Germany, Japan, and the United
States (about $14 million); technical assistance and consulting to enhance internal design and corporate
planning, marketing, accounting, and financial management capabilities (about $5 million); and civil works
(about $2 million).

Component 4: Environmental Protection (US$10,000,000)

This component was intended to support the SMG's policy of improving the enforcement of existing
environmental regulations through three sub-components. (i) A 1992 survey indicated that Shenyang
industry was generating 307,000 tons of hazardous waste per year. While 93 percent of this amount could
be recycled or most-economically treated/disposed by the large enterprises producing the waste, the
remaining 23,000 tons/year from a large number of small hazardous waste generators could be most
economically and securely handled through a central Hazardous Waste Treatment Facility (HWTF). The
HWTF was intended to handle 26,000 tons/year. (ii) To upgrade water quality monitoring (from infrequent
manual sampling), a Waste Water Monitoring System (WWMS) consisting of 25 automatic monitoring


                                                     - 4 -

stations at 19 enterprises was to provide continuous monitoring and daily reporting to Shenyang's
Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB). (iii) To strengthen the institutional capacity of EPBs at the city
and district levels, the Project provided for development of an Environmental Training Center (ETC); a
Shenyang Environmental Management Information System (SEMIS) to collect, process, and display
environmental data for officials; and a hazardous waste laboratory co-located with HWTF but under the
EPB's control.

Given the government's gradualist and experimental approach to enterprise reform and the Bank's
experience in China at the time, it appears that SIRP's components were reasonably related to Project
objectives. Technical assistance under the Reform Program component related directly to the need and the
government's intention to separate enterprise management, government administration, and social protection
functions. The Line of Credit component addressed the expectation that an increasing number of private
enterprises would find it difficult to obtain financing from state-owned commercial banks (SOCBs). The
SMTCL component was intended to address the technical, organizational, and business management needs
of a particular enterprise. In retrospect, however, it seems optimistic to have assumed that SMTCL's
restructuring could have served as a model for restructuring the rest of Shenyang's industry.         The
Environmental Protection component directly addressed readily discernible environmental problems. Local
counterparts proved capable of administrative, financial, and procurement management of the Project. The
local counterparts also proved capable of organizational initiatives within their areas of authority and
competence, for example, the segregation of social assets from SOEs, initial implementation of worker
safety net programs, and development of exchanges for labor market and property market information.

While the Bank had undertaken industrial lending in China as early as 1982 (Industrial Credit I), these
lending operations focused on technology upgrades. It appears that SIRP was the first industrial project
with a major reform component. But enterprise reform was, and remains, a complex undertaking involving
both local and central government initiatives and programs. It was perhaps underappreciated at the time, in
China as well in the ECA countries, that enterprise reform would require a wide-ranging host of
complementary progress in such areas as corporate governance, social safety nets, creditor rights, and
financial sector supervision.

3.4 Revised Components:

Component                                          Cost                   Rating
REFORM PROGRAM SUPPORT                             $3,600,000.00          S
LINE OF CREDIT                                     $60,000,000.00         U
SHENYANG MACHINE TOOLS CO. LTD                     $101,000,000.00        U
ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION                             $10,400,000.00         S

In June 2000, in response to an April 2000 request from the Government, the Project was restructured.
The World Bank's Executive Directors approved the proposed reallocation of 18 percent of total loan
proceeds. This reallocation reflected changed circumstances and progress to-date, and was an effort to
provide more effective support to the original developmental objectives.

The SMTCL component was reduced from $121 million to $101 million, with $20 million transferred to
the Line of Credit component. In addition, within the remaining SMTCL amount, $10 million was
reallocated to support labor reductions at SMTCL and some additional funds were reallocated for technical
assistance and technology transfer. SIRP's use of Bank loan proceeds to finance labor redundancy was a
first for the Bank, made possible by a March 1996 change in Bank policy. While SMTCL had reduced its
workforce from 23,000 in 1993 to 14,000 in 2000, additional reductions of 6,500 down to a workforce of


                                                     - 5 -

7,500 or less were considered necessary to improve SMTCL's competitiveness.                Under the worker
redundancy programs extant in China at the time, "xiagang" (off-post, i.e., laid-off) workers were assigned
to re-employment centers set up by their SOEs where they received a living allowance, coverage of social
security benefits, some training, and job information for up to three years. Costs were supposed to be
shared among the SOE, the social security fund of the local government, and the general government
budget. The reallocation of $10 million within this component was to finance SMTCL's contribution for
the support of xiagang workers.

The Line of Credit component was raised from $40 million to $60 million. The additional $20 million was
to be loaned exclusively to private enterprises. All future sub-loans were to follow the Project's original
terms and conditions -- e.g., maximum sub-loan of $4 million and maturity of up to 12 years, including 3
years of grace.

The Reform Program Support component was reduced from $4 million to $2.55 million. The main reason
was the reduced allocation for the SMG official training sub-component, which reflected greater use of
counterpart funds and lower than anticipated demand as a result of the many other options for civil servant
training that developed after Project appraisal.      Other fine-tuning included the reallocation of some
additional funds for the labor market and the property rights transactions sub-components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on (i) the consistency of Project objectives with the CAS; (ii)
the government's priorities, albeit still somewhat tentative; and (iii) support for environmental standards --
both the development of environmental impact statements, as appropriate, and Project support for better
enforcement of environmental regulations. A machine tools sector study, an enterprise reform strategy
paper, and a draft industrial lending strategy paper provided the analytical underpinnings for SIRP.
Indeed, the Project got off to a good start. By 1997, Project counterparts had fully implemented agreed
SMG     reforms    in  such    areas    as  managerial    autonomy      for enterprises,   transformation  of
municipal-controlled enterprises (MCEs) into shareholding companies, transfer of state asset management
responsibility from line bureaus to a dedicated asset management bureau, transition of SOE employees to
contract (vs. permanent) status, and development of labor and property rights markets.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Reorganization of Shenyang' s industrial sector into a modern corporate-led industrial sector with
substantial private participation that could increasingly allocate resources on the basis of modern
market forces -- Progress toward this objective is unsatisfactory. Despite a substantial increase in private
participation, one cannot say that Shenyang's industrial sector has enough private participation, that
resource allocation is sufficiently market-based, or that this Project's SMTCL Component and Line of
Credit Component have provided a positive demonstration effect and appropriate support.
l Private participants in Shenyang's industrial sector include foreign-invested enterprises (FIEs), new
    domestic start-ups, and former SOEs that have become private through "ownership transformation."
    As of 2002, Shenyang had 509 large private enterprises (LPEs).*/ As detailed below, however, the
    development of private industry in Shenyang lags behind China's coastal cities and the western city of
    Chengdu.
l Distress is common among SOEs. While separate figures are not available for Shenyang's SOEs, 63
    percent of Liaoning Province's SOEs were unprofitable in 2001; unhealthy assets (e.g., un-saleable
    inventory, un-collectible receivables) almost equaled equity; and the overall SOE portfolio was nearly
    insolvent.



                                                     - 6 -

l As for market-based resource allocation, the prevalence of distress among SOEs suggests the practice
    of directed lending and/or inadequate financial sector capacity for credit analysis, monitoring, and
    resolution of distress. Local labor markets do appear to have become more flexible. But access to land
    (actually land use rights, or LURs) still appears to be dominated by the local government, as indicated
    by reasons given for SMTCL's failure after two years to sell its Qihong/Beiyi LURs.
l As indicated below, SMTCL's repayments on its component have been in arrears, while about half the
    Line of Credit sub-borrowers were also in arrears as of mid-2003. The emphasis has been on obtaining
    capital, rather than on using it effectively, establishing proper controls, and honoring debt service
    obligations -- all of which are essential for a market-based allocation of capital.

(* LPE is an enterprise with revenues above RMB 5 million and private ownership above 50 percent.)

Separation of productive activities from government bureaucracy and organization of these economic
activities into corporate entities -- The separation of economic and bureaucratic organization and activity
is satisfactory. As detailed below, municipal controlled enterprises (MCEs) have been corporatized and
about 300 have been established as shareholding companies; management autonomy has devolved; and the
SMG has established an organizational structure for management of state assets. The evolution of state
assets management in Shenyang has been broadly consistent with nationwide trends.

Expansion of private sector activities -- While there has been an expansion, the extent of private sector
activity is less than satisfactory. In contrast to 1994, when private participation in Shenyang's industrial
sector was negligible, Shenyang had 509 large private enterprises (LPEs) as of 2002. In terms of LPEs per
100,000 of population, Shenyang (at 7.4) was ahead of Changchun (6.0) and Haerbin (3.5); but Shenyang
is well behind the coastal cities of Ningbo (66.6), Qingdao (25.4) and Nanjing (24.9) and slightly behind
the western city of Chengdu (9.8). The ratio of industrial value-added by LPEs in Shenyang falls short of
the ratio for Changchun, for several coastal cities (Ningbo, Qingdao, Hangzhou, Jinan), and for Chengdu --
but is ahead of Nanjing, Dalian, and Wuhan.            The assets/liability ratio for LPEs in Shenyang is
significantly higher than those in other northeast, coastal, and interior cities. This suggests that LPEs in
Shenyang suffer from profitability problems and/or excessive debt.*/

(* From "A Comparison of Private Enterprise Development in Shenyang with Other Cities," based on
information from the Shenyang Information Network and 2002 municipal circulars from selected cities.)

Enforcement of environmental regulations -- The development of facilities, development of monitoring
and information systems, and training has had a satisfactory effect.          It appears that environmental
regulations are being enforced. For example, pollution collection charges by the Shenyang Environmental
Protection Bureau (SEPB) amounted to RMB 120 million in 2002 and more than RMB 40 million during
the first 5 months of 2003 (RMB 96 million annualized). As detailed below, the use of cleaner industrial
technologies, economic reforms, and a drop-off in some industrial activities have also contributed to a
cleaner environment.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Reform Program Support ($3.6 million per revised loan; $2.3 million actual) -- Relative to expectations
in the SAR and reforms throughout China over the past five years, this component is satisfactory.
Originally, this component included nine sub-components: training, labor market, industrial safety,
property rights, state-owned assets, finance/economics training, securities, social security, and project
management. Two sub-components were cancelled -- planned securities training was centralized by the
China Securities Regulation Commission (CSRC), while social security reform was reorganized into the
Liaoning pilot program.



                                                     - 7 -

The mid-term review reported in April 1997 that the SMG had substantially implemented the reform
program agreed with the World Bank. It cited reforms in SMG reorganization, the granting of autonomous
rights to municipal-controlled enterprises (MCEs), the establishment of shareholding companies,
bankruptcy procedures and liquidations, mergers and acquisitions, industrial safety inspection, and labor
market information.

Discussions with the SMG in December 2003 suggest that these reforms have been sustained. While the
reform of state assets management is an ongoing process, Shenyang has largely separated enterprise
activity from bureaucratic administrative activity.       SMG's Finance Bureau (in lieu of a state assets
management bureau) oversees 8 state asset operating companies (SAOCs) which, in turn, oversee about
1100 MCEs. The Finance Bureau reports that all these MCEs have been corporatized as "legal persons"
and that 300 are organized as shareholding companies. SOEs (or MCEs) seem reasonably autonomous --
sometimes too autonomous, as the below discussion suggests.            While SOE bankruptcies follow the
government-mandated administrative "capital structure optimization program" procedure, there have been
more than 100 small bankruptcies. The Shenyang Property Rights Transaction Center (SPRTC) supported
asset transfers amounting to RMB 690 million by 130 SOEs in 2002, while SPRTC's November 2003
"inventory" consists of RMB 3.1 billion in assets from 208 SOEs. While Project-financed investments in
information technology for the Shenyang Employment Service Bureau (SESB) have been overtaken by
subsequent improvements in information technology, both SESB's operations and Liaoning's approach to
the development of social safety nets seem successful in promoting greater labor market flexibility.

Line of Credit ($60 million per revised loan; $44.7 million actual) -- While the utilization of this line of
credit has been acceptable, high defaults by sub-borrowers compel an unsatisfactory rating.

Two participating financial institutions (PFIs) -- the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) and
the Bank of Communications (BOCOM) -- proceeded with 33 sub-projects totaling $45.3 million. Actual
disbursements totalled $44.7 million, including $6.8 million for 6 ICBC sub-projects at state-majority
shareholding enterprises, $22.6 million for 17 ICBC sub-projects at private enterprises, and $15.3 million
for 10 BOCOM sub-projects at private enterprises. Thus, private enterprise sub-projects accounted for
$37.9 million of the $44.7 million in on-lending disbursements. This amount of sub-lending to private
enterprises exceeds expectations in the SAR, but only about $5 million of the $20 million re-allocated in
June 2000 for BOCOM lending to private enterprises was actually used. The Bank provided its "no
objection" for three additional BOCOM sub-projects.           For various reasons (non-competitive terms,
business problems, inadequate loan amount), however, these sub-projects were dropped.

While just two sub-borrowers were said to be in default on loan repayments to the PFIs at the time of the
November 2002 supervision mission, repayment performance was reported to have substantially
deteriorated by the final supervision mission in June 2003. According to information provided by the
Shenyang Project Management Office (SPMO), while 24 sub-borrowers were due to be making repayments
on sub-loans totaling $26.5 million as of May 2003, 13 sub-borrowers and $13.7 million in sub-loans were
in default. This 50 percent default rate is significantly worse than reported nationwide averages. While the
November 2002 supervision mission had urged that ICBC and BOCOM supervise their sub-loans closely
and take pro-active measures in case of sub-borrower distress, this apparently was either not done or done
ineffectively.

Shenyang Machine Tool Company Ltd. ($101 million per revised loan; $81.6 million actual) -- While
this component supported significant operational restructuring of SMTCL, the questionable sustainability
of SMTCL's business model, the company's growing arrears to the SMG, and SMTCL's casual approach


                                                      - 8 -

to capital management compel an unsatisfactory rating.

Since its formation in 1993 from the merger of 3 machine tool companies and 1 industrial controls
company, SMTCL has substantially rationalized its manufacturing operations and upgraded its
technological capabilities.   Non-core social assets have been spun-off.     The heavily indebted former
Number 3 Machine Tool Works was split off and placed into bankruptcy in 1996. As a result of the
procurement of modern equipment, technology transfers, and establishment of links with foreign CNC
component suppliers, CNC machine tool sales grew to 50 percent of SMTCL's revenues in 2001. SMTCL
management claims that the company is well positioned to meet increasing CNC machine tool demand from
China's growing auto, aerospace, and heavy equipment sectors. SMTCL reduced its workforce by about
60 percent, from 17,500 in 1993 (actually 23,000 if #3 Machine Tool is included) to 7,300 at present.
This resulted in substantial overtime for some SMTCL workers, sometimes in excess of labor law
standards. In late 2002, Bank staff warned SMTCL about the need to conform with China's labor law. A
2003 Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) suggested that Bank staff should have gone further and
actively monitored working hours at SMTCL. It was not clear to Bank staff involved in the Project,
however, that such monitoring would have been at all practicable.

These accomplishments in operational restructuring notwithstanding, SMTCL has fallen short in terms of
performance expectations, competitiveness, and governance. SMTCL's financial statements indicate that
sales growth slowed to just 4 percent in 2002, down from 13-15 percent growth in 2000-2001, 22 percent
in 1999, and 39 percent in 1998. This is said to reflect increased competition in the CNC machine tools
market. Revenues for 2002 of RMB 1.3 billion were less than one-quarter of the base-case sales projection
for 2002 (admittedly, highly optimistic) in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). SMTCL's earnings growth
has always been volatile. In contrast to the 10 percent earnings growth projected by management for 2002,
SMTCL's 2002 earnings of RMB 50 million represented a 46 percent decrease from 2001 and the
company's lowest earnings since 1997. Management attributed this decrease to the high cost of imported
CNC components. Earnings of RMB 50 million for 2002 were just 6 percent of the base-case earnings
projection for 2002 (again, overly optimistic) in the SAR. SMTCL's working capital cycle lengthened in
2002 to a total of 220 inventory/receivables-days. Following a public share offering and debt/equity
conversion in 1998, SMTCL's long-term debt service coverage declined from 1.7 in 1998 to 0.9 in 2002.
As a result, SMTCL petitioned the central government and National People's Congress (NPC) in early
2003 for another debt/equity conversion. SMTCL has improved labor productivity, reducing the number
of workers/$100 million (constant) of revenues from 12,655 in 1993 to 7,281 in 2002. But SMTCL's
staffing is still far above the 600-800 workers needed at comparable international companies to support
$100 million of sales. The final supervision mission questioned SMTCL's ability to continue financing the
purchase, integration, and installation of imported CNC components for powerful, slow-paying customers
in key sectors and recommended that SMTCL's shareholders seek a buyer (or real strategic partner) for
SMTCL.

Citing cash flow uncertainty and requirements for additional capital investment, SMTCL suspended Project
loan repayments to SMG in early 2002. SMTCL's arrears to SMG amounted to $32.1 million by March
2003. World Bank suggestions from November 2002 for operational and financial restructuring to re-start
debt service provoked little reaction or discernible effect on SMTCL.

While claiming shortages of finance for operations and capital investment and while falling farther behind
in debt repayments to SMG, SMTCL has retained some non-core assets and undertaken some additional
diversification. By 2002, SMTCL had diversified into unrelated businesses (real estate, securities, mineral
water, advertising, and herbal medicine). Following World Bank recommendations to sell non-core assets
for debt repayment, SMTCL sold some of these holdings in late 2002, but retained its shares in a securities


                                                      - 9 -

company. Management insists that securities is a growth business and that it would not sell its 10 percent
interest in a securities company. For more than two years, SMTCL management has discussed the sale of
land use rights for two properties, but has made no discernible progress toward actual sale. In fairness,
this may be attributable to policies of the local district government. Finally, in late 2002, SMTCL invested
RMB 10 million and committed to investing an additional RMB 10-30 million in three new joint ventures
(in milling, CNC devices, and sewing machines). There is no indication that these investment decisions
have involved proper consideration of creditors' rights or followed rigorous analysis. Indeed, in May 1998
the World Bank's machine tool industry specialist (a consultant) cautioned that joint ventures are often
counter-productive and not an effective way of transferring technology.

Environmental Protection ($10.4 million per revised loan; $10.2 million actual) -- By supporting the
development of a Hazardous Waste Treatment Facility (HWTF), information management and monitoring
systems, and environmental training, this component was successful in improving the capacity of local
authorities to enforce environmental regulations.           Pollution charge collections by the Shenyang
Environmental Protection Bureau (SEPB) amounted to RMB 120 million in 2002 and more than RMB 40
million during the first 5 months of 2003 (RMB 96 million annualized). By highlighting sources and levels
of pollution, the Shenyang Environmental Management System (SEMIS) financed by the Project should
support the enforcement of environmental regulations and the imposition of pollution charges.            By
monitoring 10 major industrial wastewater emitters that account for 40 percent of total industrial
wastewater, 4 wastewater treatment plants that account for 100 percent of municipal sewage, and 12 other
sites, the Shenyang Industry Waste Water Monitoring System (SIWWMS) should support the enforcement
of regulations on water quality. Environmental Training Center (ETC) courses had 5600 participants in
2001 and 2002. The HWTF should provide safe storage for hazardous waste that cannot be recycled or
economically handled at its source.

HWTF has been operating below-capacity, but utilization seems likely to improve. Completed in 1996
with an eventual capacity of 240,000 tons and annual processing capacity of 20,000 tons/year, the HWTF
is still operating below its processing capacity and below its break-even level. During the first 5 months of
2003, HWTF accepted just 1,500 tons (3,600 tons on an annualized basis) -- versus 20,000 tons/year
processing capacity and the 5,000 tons/year needed to break even at current prices. In retrospect, the SAR
over-estimated requirements by under-estimating the effects from cleaner technologies, economic reforms,
and a drop-off in industrial activity. Shenyang now generates less than 1000 tons of hazardous waste per
year. It appears, however, that HWTF's business is picking up. As of October 2002, HWTF had signed
collection contracts with 43 of the 64 enterprises accounting for 95 percent of hazardous waste in
Shenyang. Between October 2002 and June 2003, the HWTF reportedly signed an additional 50 contracts.
The State Environmental Protection Bureau has designated Shenyang's HWTF as one of eight regional sites
for all of China and the only site in northeast China. For HWTF to be profitable, it will need to accept
hazardous waste from a much broader area of China.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not used

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The SAR estimated that the SMTCL component would have a return of 23.6 percent under the base-case
scenario and 19.8 percent under the low-case scenario. Net cash flow with Project investments was
compared with those expected without the Project, in which case the only investments would be those
committed to by the 8th Five-Year Plan.

The financial rate of return (FRR) for SMTCL turns out to be very disappointing. Because of delays in



                                                      - 10 -

project construction and huge working capital requirements (due to a combined inventory-receivables cycle
of 200+ days), net cash flows from the Project turned positive only in 2002. Based on SMTCL's financial
statements through 2002 and 2003-2010 financial projections provided by SMTCL management in 2002,
the FRR for the SMTCL Component is estimated to be 4 percent. Given the history of overly optimistic
projections for SMTCL's financial performance, however, even this low FRR should be viewed with
caution.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the Project's institutional development impact was modest. Looking at the most positive aspects, it
appears that the Project provided substantial support for long-lasting SMG reforms (e.g., separation of
enterprises from government, development of property rights transactions, labor market development) and
for the SEPB's ability to enforce environmental regulations. SMTCL gained some significant benefit from
consulting, technology transfer, and training for 3600 employees. The greatest benefits appear to have
been in the use of new production technologies, re-organization of production, and better human resource
(HR) management.        It appears, however, that SMTCL's capacity for strategic planning, marketing
management, and financial management are less well-developed. Especially given the rate of arrears
among line of credit sub-borrowers, it is unclear whether the Project had any institutional development
impact on the Shenyang branches of ICBC and BOCOM.

Development impact may have been greatest and most long-lasting at the two smallest components (Reform
Program Support and Environmental Protection). The SMTCL Component and Line of Credit Component
overwhelmingly emphasized the deployment of capital to procure new technologies and relatively less
emphasis on technical assistance and training. Thus, an over-emphasis on hardware and under-emphasis
on "software" (e.g., financial analysis and management, marketing skills, strategic planning) in these two
components may actually have worked against long-term development impact.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Many crucial factors have remained outside the control of the SMG, SMTCL, ICBC, and BOCOM.
l The market for selling CNC machine tools in China has become highly competitive -- more competitive
    than expected in 1993 when the Project was appraised. Because of this market competitiveness -- as
    well as SMTCL's apparent lack of "critical mass" and pricing power -- SMTCL's sales growth (while
    remaining far below projections in the SAR) has slowed since 1998; earnings have remained volatile;
    and receivable-days and consequent requirements for working capital financing have remained high.
    The apparent unpredictability of the development of China's CNC machine tool market highlights the
    inherent difficulty -- especially for governments -- of attempting to pick sectors or enterprises likely to
    emerge as market "winners."
l The concentration of special investment incentives along China's coasts may have tended to divert
    foreign investment to the coastal provinces, to the detriment of the northeastern provinces.
l A stronger earlier commitment by the central government to far-reaching enterprise reforms --
    including greater ownership diversification and other forms of privatization ("ownership
    transformation"), concentration of state ownership rights and responsibilities in an SOE "ownership
    agency," an emphasis on maximizing returns on State capital, and stronger corporate governance --
    might have had two benefits. First, the SMG might have been encouraged to "withdraw" from
    additional SOEs and thereby to create a more favorable investment climate for private industry.
    Second, if there had been greater emphasis on maximizing returns on State capital and on effective
    corporate governance, SMTCL might have been encouraged to complete its restructuring more
    efficiently and/or to have sought a strategic investor.



                                                     - 11 -

l A stronger earlier commitment by the central authorities to raising financial sector regulation,
    supervision, and governance to international standards would presumably have encouraged more
    careful credit analysis, better monitoring, and a more pro-active response to any sub-borrower arrears
    by ICBC and BOCOM.
l A stronger commitment by the central government and legislature to insolvency reform and the
    protection of creditors rights might have encouraged development in China of a "credit culture" and
    discouraged arrears by both SMTCL and line of credit sub-borrowers.
l Ceilings on interest rates discourage lending to private businesses, especially small and medium
    enterprises (SMEs), and have constrained private sector development. Especially for SME lending,
    financial institutions need the flexibility to set interest rates high enough to compensate themselves for
    higher risks and transaction costs. Complete flexibility for financial institutions to set interest rates
    according to market conditions would have done more to encourage private sector development than
    could ever have been achieved by a project-financed line of credit.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The importance of the central authorities notwithstanding, the SMG has had control over many important
factors affecting the investment climate for local private sector development. For example, it is within the
SMG's power to implement a system for business registration, licensing, and inspections that encourages
new "entry" by private businesses. The SMG can pursue the privatization ("ownership transformation") of
municipal-controlled enterprises (MCEs) through an open process that promotes new management, new
investment, and post-privatization enterprise restructuring and performance improvements. Subject to
budget constraints, the SMG can provide "safety nets" and labor market information that facilitates the
re-deployment of redundant labor from SOEs -- hopefully to growing parts of the economy.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
While concerns remain that the local branches of state-owned commercial banks (SOCBs) may be
pressured to lend to local SOEs for non-commercial reasons, the management and officers of the Shenyang
branches of ICBC and BOCOM*/ are responsible for the assessment, monitoring, and performance of
credits to sub-borrowers under the Line of Credit component. If credit assessment and other aspects of
institutional capacity are lacking, such financial institutions presumably have or can find the wherewithal to
obtain needed skills -- either commercially or through international financial institutions.

The governance of SMTCL is under the control of its board and its shareholders. Approximately 70
percent of SMTCL shares are state-owned. SMTCL is a locally-administered SOE. Traditionally, the
rights and responsibilities of State shareholders in China have been highly fragmented among a number of
Government and Party entities -- e.g., the local Finance Bureau, local Economic and Trade Commission,
and local Party enterprise working group. This is now changing, with the establishment of State-Owned
Assets Supervision and Administration Commissions (SASACs) at the central and local levels of
government. While the allocation of shareholder rights and responsibilities has been fragmented, the local
authorities are ultimately responsible for the success or non-success of SMTCL.

(* While BOCOM is a joint stock company and not strictly a SOCB, 100 percent ownership by state
shareholders may nonetheless leave local branches more amenable to local influence.)

5.4 Costs and financing:
As mentioned above (section 3.4), there was some reallocation of project costs, especially away from
SMTCL procurement and toward the Line of Credit component and financing for labor redundancy at
SMTCL. Overall disbursements were 79 percent of the total loan amount. Compared with the restructured
loan, actual disbursements for the Reform Support Component were 65 percent of the available amount.



                                                       - 12 -

This appears to reflect organizational changes and perhaps some possible reluctance to borrow for training
of officials. Actual disbursements for the Environmental Component were 98 percent of the available
amount. Actual disbursements for the Line of Credit Component were 75 percent of the increased amount
following the June 2000 restructuring of the loan.         Limits on interest rates, which can make it
un-economical for financial institutions to bear the risks and transaction costs, were probably a major
factor in under-utilization of the Line of Credit component.        Actual disbursements for the SMTCL
Component were 81 percent of the reduced amount available after the June 2000 restructuring of the loan.
It appears that SMTCL's arrears to the SMG from at least early 2001 led the SMG Finance Bureau to
freeze further disbursements of Project loan proceeds for SMTCL use.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
While gains from the Reform Program component and Environmental component seem sustainable, the
unsatisfactory rating reflects arrears by SMTCL to the SMG and by Line of Credit sub-borrowers.
l The initial separation of government administration from SOE administration and related reforms
    within the SMG have been sustained. Further SOE reform and restructuring is likely to depend on the
    development of SASAC ownership agencies and a more business-like approach to the management of
    State capital.
l In environment, the Project has strengthened the SEPB's ability to detect and counter hazardous
    emissions and to safely store hazardous solid wastes. In addition, the challenge of environmental
    protection has been made easier by the development of cleaner industrial technologies and a change in
    industrial activity in Shenyang.
l Despite SMTCL's efforts at operational restructuring, SMTCL underwent a debt/equity conversion in
    1998 and requested a second debt/equity conversion in 2002. It is difficult to characterize enterprise
    restructuring as sustainable when the enterprise in question requires a debt/equity conversion every
    four years.
l As for the Line of Credit Component, 50 percent arrears by sub-borrowers who should now be making
    sub-loan repayments is very discouraging. The resolution and avoidance of such defaulting will require
    systemic reforms far beyond the scope of this Project. Key systemic reforms would include adoption of
    international best practices in the regulation and supervision of financial institutions; corporatization
    and enhanced corporate governance for financial institutions;*/ and capacity-building in the areas of
    credit analysis and corporate workout.

(* As noted earlier, BOCOM has already been corporatized. Thus, all three systemic reforms are likely
necessary to bring about significant improvements in credit analysis, monitoring, and workout.)

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Bank's Project team has maintained good relations with key Project counterparts, especially within the
SMG and with SMTCL. Discussions with Project counterparts, even on difficult issues, have remained
open and candid. The Bank' s team has regularly reiterated, as recently as December 2003, its interest in
maintaining a dialogue with key Project counterparts. But while the SMG's reforms got off to a promising
start during the first few years of the Project, it appears that the impact of the World Bank's advice on
enterprise reform subsequently waned and was modest at best by the end of the Project.

Developments subsequent to the closing of the Project may provide a better opportunity for promoting
SIRP's developmental objectives in enterprise reform. Industrial revitalization of the Northeast provinces
(Liaoning, Jilin, and Heilongjiang) has emerged as a priority for the new central government. Indeed, the
Development Research Center of the State Council and the provincial authorities organized a conference on



                                                    - 13 -

Northeast industrial revitalization in Shenyang in December 2003. Central government representatives,
high-level provincial authorities (e.g., two governors and several vice-governors), and senior World Bank
staff were heavily involved in this conference, which received national media coverage. The Liaoning
government has requested follow-on assistance from the World Bank in assessing the province's investment
climate. As has been found in other investment climate assessments elsewhere in China, market distortions
from loss-making SOEs are likely to be an important issue in Liaoning's investment climate. In addition, as
noted earlier, the central and local governments are implementing potentially far-reaching reforms in the
governance of China's SOEs. These two developments should provide a broader high-level opportunity to
support SIRP's development goals for enterprise reform.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank fielded a large and experienced team for Project appraisal, which included extensive analyses of
China's industrial sector, issues, and reforms; Shenyang's economy and industrial sector; the legal and
administrative environment for industrial reform; the machine tool sector; the two participating financial
institutions (PFIs); and local environmental issues. The Bank had previously undertaken extensive ESW on
China's machine tool sector, other industrial sectors, and industrial policies and restructuring. The Project's
design, goals, and projections -- while optimistic, especially in retrospect -- were based on extensive
analyses and what might reasonably have been assumed at the time of appraisal.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank staff provided timely support for SMTCL and SEPB procurement, review of PFI sub-projects, and
selection of consultants. Supervision missions were regular and well-staffed with industry, financial, and
labor experts.    The TL took the initiative of mobilizing consultant trust funds (CTFs) to finance
industry-specific expertise needed to support Project supervision and provide high-quality technical advice
to Project counterparts, especially to SMTCL's management. Supervision mission aide memoires contain
extensive analyses and recommendations related to the machine tool industry, retrenchment of redundant
labor, and SMTCL's operational and financial restructuring.         Extensive analysis (especially of labor
retrenchment issues) by Bank staff preceded a June 2000 restructuring to adapt the Project to changed
circumstances and progress to-date in support of the original developmental objectives.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Bank staff labored mightily through Project appraisal
and supervision to provide high-quality professional advice and oversight.            The Bank's efforts are
appreciated by the Shenyang authorities. The ultimately unsatisfactory outcome of the Project seems due
rather to over-long adherence to two faulty premises from the time of appraisal. The first faulty premise
was that a demonstration project to restructure a particular SOE could succeed in a "semi-reformed"
environment -- characterized by weak corporate governance, weak creditor rights, weak supervision of
financial institutions -- and that this effort would encourage adequate restructuring by other industrial
SOEs to enhance their competitiveness. The second faulty premise was that a Line of Credit -- within the
context of an interest rate ceiling and weak governance/supervision of financial institutions -- would
significantly spur private sector development in Shenyang.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in lending was satisfactory. There was close cooperation at the time of
preparation between the SMG and the Bank. The Reform Program component clearly addressed the need
then to separate government administration from SOE administration, while the Environmental component



                                                    - 14 -

likewise addressed needs for monitoring and treatment. The SMTCL and Line of Credit components
responded to perceived needs and standard approaches from at the time of the SAR. Representatives from
all of the counterpart agencies were involved in preparation of the Project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
From a policy perspective, the Project has been generally satisfactory. The SMG rapidly moved forward
on the Reform Program and Environmental components. The SMG's work on separating SOE
administration from government and developing social safety nets, local labor markets, and the property
transactions markets responded to needs to transition to a market-based economy.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
On the positive side, the Shenyang Project Management Office (SPMO) did a good job in administering the
Project.    Available ex post reviews showed no procurement issues for TTL follow-up, financial
management was fine; and progress reporting provided a helpful starting point for Project supervision. It
should also be mentioned that SMTCL made reasonably rapid early progress in rationalizing its
organization and production.     The previously-discussed arrears by SMTCL and by many Line of Credit
sub-borrowers, however, are a significant negative factor.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance may be judged as satisfactory, but with significant caveats.             Project
preparation went well and closely involved all key counterparts. The Project initially made rapid progress
in all four components. SPMO performed its Project administration function well. By 1998, however, it
appeared that SMTCL's financial performance was regularly falling short of SAR projections. SMTCL's
arrears to SMG are troubling, however, as is the high percentage of Line of Credit sub-borrowers in default
to the two PFIs as of mid-2003. On the other hand, these shortcomings reflect systemic issues in China's
"semi-transitioned" economy. These systemic issues include, most notably, still-weak governance of SOEs
and SOCBs; insufficient protections for creditors; inadequate supervision of financial institutions; and
"fuzzy" thinking about debt and equity financing, due to the State's dual role as SOE owner and SOE
creditor. Within this context, it would have been outstandingly exemplary behavior for SMG's Finance
Bureau to insist on adequate operational restructuring by SMTCL, for SMTCL to agree to such
restructuring, or for the local branches of the two PFIs to be particularly effective at credit analysis and
supervision.

8. Lessons Learned

1. SOE restructuring -- In most if not all cases, governments are not well-positioned to restructure or
    govern distressed SOEs. Distressed SOEs should be sold to private investors, who should then be free
    to restructure the enterprise to make it market-competitive. The experience with SMTCL is consistent
    with experiences from both OECD countries and the transition economies of Central/Eastern Europe,
    where it has been shown that new capital investments in SOEs by state shareholders are often a waste
    of capital. Technology upgrades and capital investment should be left to new owners. While this may
    not have been clear in 1993, it is abundantly clear now following an additional ten years of experience
    in many transition economies.
2. Private sector development -- A Bank-financed line of credit through financial intermediaries is clearly
    insufficient to promote private sector development. Governments and the World Bank Group should
    focus on the complete spectrum of investment climate issues. These include new business registration,
    licensing, and inspections; tax administration; labor flexibility; barriers to exit; skill and technology
    endowments; market access; and access to finance which, in turn, depends on a range of factors
    including available protections for creditor rights and interest rate flexibility. These PSD investment
    climate issues should be addressed through surveys, in-depth analyses, technical assistance, and


                                                    - 15 -

    training. Government counterparts should take "ownership" of efforts to understand and improve the
    investment climate.
3. SOE reform -- SOE reform needs to be addressed "top-down." Key issues include the effectiveness of
    the State shareholder; organization and procedures for corporate governance of SOEs; open processes
    for SOE privatization; adequacy of worker "safety nets;" and maintenance of "hard budget" constraints
    for both SOEs and private businesses. If these issues -- which should be addressed through ESW and
    technical assistance -- are not adequately addressed, efforts at SOE reform will have less than
    satisfactory results.
4. Financing for "hardware" vs. "software" -- Any insistence by a government that it needs to borrow only
    (or mostly) for "hardware" (e.g., equipment, works) instead of "software" (e.g., technical consultants,
    training) should be viewed with caution. In the case of this Project, greater efforts on the "soft" side
    (e.g., training for credit analysis and supervision, working capital management, corporate governance)
    might have led to better developmental outcomes.
5. Lines of credit -- If the Bank finances a line of credit, it is not enough to rely on ex ante criteria for
    approval of sub-loans. The PFI should also monitor repayment performance by sub-borrowers and
    respond effectively to the emergence of defaults or distress among sub-borrowers. The Borrower,
    PFIs, and the Bank should also be alert to the potential need, for example, for additional PFI training in
    credit analysis/supervision and corporate workout, institutional development of the financial
    supervisor, and enhancements to the corporate governance of PFIs.
6. Project management -- For long-duration projects, the appraisal process should take care to develop
    realistic operating/financial projections, assess sensitivities, and identify remedial actions in case of
    performance shortfalls. In addition, it should be easier for TLs and project counterparts to respond
    effectively to any unsatisfactory operating/financial performance. Formal requirements for focusing on
    whether or not to continue with a project or particular project component might be appropriate. Such
    formal requirements might be time-based (e.g., every 3 years) or event-based (e.g., operating/financial
    performance below a pre-determined level for 2 years).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    The      Borrower's    final    evaluation   report    provides    detailed    comments     on     Project
    components/sub-components, actual vs. planned expenditures, and Project-related activity.             The
    Borrower expresses satisfaction with Project results as well as with performances by implementing
    agencies and the World Bank. For such long-duration projects, the Borrower cites a need for flexibility
    in project design and implementation. See Annex 8 for complete comments.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not used




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                     1
               Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
 Reorganize SMG;                                                          100%
Grant the 14 autonomous rights to all MCEs                                100%
 Complete transformation of at least 150                                  200%
eligible MCEs into shareholding companies;
 Strengthen SAMB; Amend the implementing                                  50%, reflecting lack of bankruptcy reform
regulations of Bankruptcy Law;
 Amend the implementing regulations of                                    0%
Bankruptcy Law;
Enhance mergers and acquisitions by                                       100%
developing an information system and
property rights market;
 Develop a program for detachment of                                      100%
nonproductive assets and social services
from enterprises;
Enforce national industrial safety standards                              100% as of end-1997
Adjust contributions to Pension Fund and                                  100% per Liaoning pilot program
establish a labor market
information system                                                        50%, reflecting subsequent need for newer
                                                                          information technology
Review the finance sector reform measures.                                0
 Train 900 SMG officials                                                  100% as of end-1998
Number of enterprises to be declared                                      25%, based on incomplete bankruptcy reform
bankrupt by 2001
Number of mergers and acquisitions by 2001                                50%, based on initial administrative approach
                                                                          to M&A
Rate/Number of industrial accidents to be                                 Not available
reduced;
 Workers redeployed through new                                           15%,reflecting subsequent need for newer
information system up to 150,000 per year in                              information technology
2001.
Restructure SMTCL and make it a viable and                                33%, based on issues with debt sustainability
market oriented enterprise                                                and repayment
Impact Indicators: Establish specialized nine
Business Units by 1998
 Outsource components 100% by 1999                                        100%, reflecting outsourcing of CNC
                                                                          components
CNC ratio of production value (85% by 2001)                               60%, based on 2002 report attributing 50% of
                                                                          revenues to CNC machine tool sales
 Reduce work force by 60%                                                 100%
 Remove social services by 1996;                                          100%
 Train 3600 staff by 2001;                                                100%
Realize the transfer of technology by 1998;                               67%, per December 1998 aide memoire
Disburse Bank loan by SMTCL(100% by                                       83%
2001).
Sales increase by % per year (see table)                                  25% i.e., 2002 sales (per SMTCL's income
                                                                          statement) relative to the SAR base-case
 Profits increase % per year (see table);                                 6%, i.e, 2002 earnings (per SMTCL's income
                                                                          statement) relative to the SAR base-case

Output Indicators:
                                                                     1
               Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                       - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

   Project Cost by Components (in US$ million equivalent )
        Component             Revised Loan          Actual            Percentage of
                              US$ million        US$ million          Revised Loan
   Reform      Program           3.60               2.38                  66.11
   Support
   Environmental                 10.40              10.17                 97.79
   Protection
   Line of Credit                60.00              44.91                 74.85
   SMTCL                        101.00              81.56                 80.75
          Total                 175.00              139.02                79.44
   Loan as revised in June 2000

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 1
                                           Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category          ICB         NCB                  2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                             Other
1. Works                          0.00        0.00            0.00           22.50          22.50
                                 (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                         88.50        0.00           61.80           47.00         197.30
                                (88.50)       (0.00)         (61.80)         (0.00)        (150.30)
3. Services                       0.00        0.00            9.00            3.30          12.30
                                 (0.00)       (0.00)         (9.00)          (0.00)         (9.00)
4. Technology Transfer            0.00        0.00           14.60            1.40          16.00
                                 (0.00)       (0.00)         (14.60)         (0.00)        (14.60)
5. Software                       0.00        0.00            1.10            0.00           1.10
                                 (0.00)       (0.00)         (1.10)          (0.00)         (1.10)
6. HR                             0.00        0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
                                 (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                         88.50        0.00           86.50           74.20         249.20
                                (88.50)       (0.00)         (86.50)         (0.00)        (175.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                           Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category          ICB         NCB                 2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                            Other
1. Works                          0.00                        2.10           25.40         27.50
                                 (0.00)         ()           (2.10)         (0.00)         (2.10)
2. Goods                         63.40                       63.80           19.40         146.60
                                (63.40)         ()          (63.80)         (0.00)        (127.20)
3. Services                       0.00        0.00            5.10           0.80           5.90
                                 (0.00)      (0.00)          (5.10)         (0.00)         (5.10)
4. Technology Transfer            0.00        0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
                                 (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Software



                                           - 18 -

                                           0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. HR                                   0.00               0.00              4.60             0.00              4.60
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.60)            (0.00)           (4.60)
       Total                               63.40              0.00             75.60             45.60            184.60
                                          (63.40)            (0.00)           (75.60)            (0.00)          (139.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Reform Program Support         4.00                      1.97        2.40                    0.50       60.0               25.4
Shenyang Environmental        10.00                      4.93       10.20                    3.90       102.0              79.1
Protection Bureau
Line of Credit                40.00                    110.60       44.90                    9.40       112.3               8.5
Shenyang Machine Tool         121.00                    63.40       81.50                   31.80       67.4               50.2
Co. Ltd

        Loan component amounts revised in June 2000, including shift of $20 million from SMTCL to LOC.
        Co-financers include Shenyang Municipal Government, including its Environmental Protection Bureau;
        BOCOM and ICBC; and SMTCL. The SAR's assumption of $6.9 million in total SMG co-financing
        has been split pro rata between Reform Program and Environmental.




                                                          - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not used.




                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/03/1989                2
              11/16/1991                1    Operations Officer
              05/18/1992                9    Operations Officer (3); Financial
                                             Analyst (1); Env. Engineer (1);
                                             Engineer (2); Economist (1);
                                             Project Officer (1)
              02/15/1993              13     Operations Officer (3); Industry
                                             Spec. (1); Financial Analyst (1);
                                             Economist (2); Institutional Spec.
                                             (1); Env. Engineer (2); Engineer
                                             (2); Env. Specialist (1)
              06/27/1993                8    Operations Officer (1); Industry
                                             Spec. (1); Engineer (1);
                                             Economist (2); Machine Tools
                                             Spec. (1); Financial Analyst (1);
                                             Env. Spec. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/16/1994              15     Task Manager (1); Industry
                                             Spec. (1) Economist (2);
                                             Engineer (2); Research
                                             Analyst (1); Financial Policy
                                             Analyst (1); Procurement
                                             Spec. (2); Operations
                                             Officer (1); TA Specialist
                                             (1); Financial Institutions
                                             Spec. (1); Financial Analyst
                                             (1); Env. Specialist (1)

 Supervision

              11/09/1994                5    Accounting (1); Banking (1);           S              HS
                                             Financial (1); Engineering (1);
                                             Disbursement (1)
              07/13/1995                3    Enterprise Reform (1); Financial       S               S
                                             (1); Technical Assistance (1)
              04/23/1996                3    Enterprise Reform (1); Industrial      S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Procurement
                                             Officer (1)
              11/19/1997                3    Engineer/Environment(1);               S               S
                                             Project Officer (1); Machine Tool
                                             Expert (1)
              05/21/1998                4    Enterprise Reform (1); Financial       S               S
                                             Analyst/Indus (1); Machine
                                             Tools Expert (1); FA/ PSD -
                                             China (1)



                                              - 21 -

               06/11/1999                      5   Enterprise Reform (1);               S    S
                                                   Industrial/Finance (1); Labor (1);
                                                   Environment (1); Machine Tools
                                                   (1)
               11/04/1999                      5   Task Team Leader (1); Human          S    S
                                                   Resources (1);
                                                   Industrial/Financial (1);
                                                   Environment (1); Procurement
                                                   (1)
               06/08/2001                      2   Team Leader (1); Sr. Economist       S    S
                                                   (1)
               02/08/2002                      3   Industry and Finance (1); Labor      S    S
                                                   Restructuring (1); Enterprise
                                                   Reform (1)
               11/01/2002                      3   Team Leader (1);                     S    S
                                                   Industrial/Financial (1);
                                                   Environment (1)
               06/19/2003                      3   Team Leader (1);                     S    S
                                                   Industrial/Financial (1);
                                                   Environment (1)

 ICR
               12/26/2003                     2     Team Leader (1);                    S    U
                                                    Industrial/Financial (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation          Not Available                                /a
  Appraisal/Negotiation               Not Available                          678.3 /a
  Supervision                         Not Available                             878.6
  ICR                                           8.50                             42.6
  Total                               Not Available                           1,599.5
/a Total amount includes Identification through Negotiation.




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Mid-Term Review (June 1997)
l Supervision mission Aide Memoires
l Shenyang Machine Tool Company Ltd (SMTCL) financial statements for 2002
l SMTCL's financial projections to 2010
l Calculation of Financial Rate of Return (FRR) for SMTCL Component
l Data on international peers in machine tool business
l A Comparison of Private Enterprise Development in Shenyang With Other Cities
l Final Evaluation Report from the Shenyang Project Management Office




                                                - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner Comments


      Part I. Survey of the Project

  1. Background
  The Shenyang Industrial Reform Project is a comprehensive project, whose principal part is the reform
  of Shenyang machinery industry, including technical assistance (governmental reform), environmental
  protection, and business financing through ICBC and BOCOM. The program was approved by
  Executive Directors of the World Bank on September 6,1994 and by State department of China in
  October 1994. The program was in execution phase from April 11, 1995 after four legal documents
  were signed on January 11, 1995. The documents included "Loan Agreement", "Shenyang Project
  Agreement", "SMTCL Program Agreement", "Financial Agency Loading Agreement".

  2. Target
  Shenyang industrial reform is realized by establishing modern leadership industries with self-owned
  enterprises, so as to establish new operational organization structure and separate the manufacturing
  economic activities from the governmental ones. Resolve the problem of low environmental level by
  supporting the execution of environmental standard improvement to ensure environment protection by
  new industrial activities. Provide technical assistance to support the development strategy of Shenyang
  governmental reform. Support the restructure of SMTCL Company. Support modernization reform and
  restructuring of other enterprises.

  3. Components and funds use
  Shenyang Industry Reform Project consisted of four components: (1) 4 million USD for Technical
  Assistance component. (2) 121 million USD for SMTCL Component. (3) 10 million USD for
  Environmental Protection Component. (4) 40 million USD for Line of Credit Component by ICBC &
  BOCOM. The total investment is 2.6 billion RMB, including 1.16 billion RMB counterpart fund and
  175 million USD loan from the World Bank. The term of the Bank Loan is 20 years, including 5-year
  grace period. The program was adjusted in the year of 2000: (1) 3.6m USD for TA component. (2)
  101m USD for SMTCL Component. (3) 10.4m USD for Environmental protection Component. (4)
  60m USD for LOC Component--ICBC (share-holding enterprise) & BOCOM (private enterprise).

      Part II. Execution of the Project

  1. Technical Assistance Component
  Technical Assistance Component supported the Shenyang Municipal Government Reform Action Plan.
  It has been divided into 9 parts, of which Shenyang Securities & Exchange Supervision Committee
  sub-component and Shenyang Social Security sub-component were cancelled early in implementation.
  Total amount of the World Bank loan in the component was changed from USD 4 million to USD 3.6
  million in June 2000.

  1.1 Shenyang Planning Commission Training Center Project

  The total amount of loan is USD900,000. The objective is to deepen the capability for Shenyang
  Municipal officials governing various reforms including any related to planning, investment, finance,
  pricing, and state-owned assets.This project was canceled by World Bank in July 2000 after
  accomplishing foreign language and computer training as well as part of occupational training and
  other fundamental training due to Shenyang Municipal Government focusing on other projects and



                                                  - 26 -

organization changing.

1.2 Shenyang Municipal Labor Market Project

The total amount of loan is USD600,000. The purpose of the project is to enhance the existing
organizational structure and technical frame of Shenyang Municipal Labor Bureau to form an effective
labor market information system and to promote employment service work. The work for construction
of information network and training for employees was finished by October 1999.

1.3 Shenyang Municipal Labor & Safety and Testing Project

The objective is to improve the ability for Shenyang Municipal undertaking labor & safety examination
and implementing national safety standard.The total value is USD250,000. With the assistance of
expatriates, the training for security inspectors was completed and the appliances for security
examination were purchased by October 1999.

1.4 Shenyang Property Right Transaction Center Project

The objective is to help Shenyang Municipal Government improve the operating ability for merging
and purchasing Property Right Exchange Center so as to develop an information system.. Total amount
is USD750,000. Work on the information system, consultancy, and overseas training was completed by
May 2000.

1.5 Shenyang Municipal State-Owned Assets Bureau Project

The objective is to help Shenyang Municipal State-Owned Assets Bureau and its State-Owned
Operating Company define work scope and responsibilities so as to execute effectively the state-owned
assets rights.Till now, the procurement of equipments, seminars and some trainings have been finished.
The amount is USD250,000 in which USD41,218.13 was not used based on a decision by the
Shenyang Municipal State-Owned Assets Bureau.

1.6 Shenyang Finance & Economy College Project

The purpose of this project is to strengthen teachers' ability to present such subjects as market
economy, international trade, and finance to meet the increasing demands for officials and enterprise
managers. The total is USD300,000. The training for qualified candidates was completed by December
1999.

1.7 Shenyang Securities and Exchange Supervision Committee Project

The objective is to train securities and exchange supervisors and to highlight their comprehensive
quality and management ability. Total amount is USD150,000. In 1998, Shenyang Securities and
Exchange Supervision Committee combined with Liaoning provincial Securities and Exchange
Supervision Committee into one regional Securities and Exchange Supervision Committee directly
under the national China Securities Regulation Commission (CSRC). With the new organizational
structure, the regional training requirements could be inncluded in the CSRC's national training plan
instead of using loan of Shenyang Industrial Reform Project. Hence, this sub-component was cancelled
in June 1999.




                                               - 27 -

1.8 Shenyang Social Security Project

The purpose of this project is to help Shenyang Municipal Government work out local social security
planning in using the experience of other countries for reference and to cultivate some higher qualified
social security managers. The total amount is USD300,000. Because there were many changes of the
policies and organization of Shenyang social security, this sub-component was canceled in December
1999.


1.9 Shenyang Project Management Office

The objective is to enhance the comprehensive quality and ability of managers for this project with loan
of USD100,000. The training was finished in June 1999.

    Table of Technical Assistance Project
                                                                       In: USD
No.                        Project Unit                        Loan Amount            Payment            Balance
     1  Shenyang Planning CommissionTraining Center               900, 000. 00        369, 405. 53      530, 594. 47
     2  Shenyang Municipal Labour Market                          600, 000. 00        593, 846. 23         6, 153. 77
     3  Shenyang Labour& Safety Inspection Institute              250, 000. 00        250, 000. 00               -
     4  Shenyang Property Right Exchange Center                   750, 000. 00        663, 877. 26        86, 122. 74
     5  Shenyang State-owned Assets Bureau                        250, 000. 00        208, 781. 83        41, 218. 17
     6  Shenyang Finance& Economy College                         300, 000. 00        175, 923. 36      124, 076. 64
     7  Shenyang Security and Exchange
        Supervision Commission                                    150, 000. 00          10, 920. 00     139, 080. 00
     8  Shenyang Social Security Committee                        300, 000. 00          17, 434. 72     282, 565. 28
     9  Shenyang The World Bank Loan Industrial Office            100, 000. 00          56, 100. 00       43, 900. 00
                          TOTAL                                 3, 600, 000. 00     2, 346, 288. 93   1, 253, 711. 07

2. Environmental Protection Component

This component mainly includes four sub-components, Hazardous Waste Treatment Facilities (and
Laboratory), Shenyang Environmental Management Information System, Environmental Protection
Training Center and Shenyang Industrial Waste Monitoring System.

2.1 Shenyang Hazardous Waste Treatment Facilities

Shenyang industrial dangerous waste disposal and treatment engineering project was formally started
after signing the loan agreement in 1995. Initial design and construction drawing design were finished
at the end of 1996. Preparation for engineering construction such as an access road and "three put
through and one level" were finished at the end of 1997. Main part of the engineering was begun in
April 1998. Main part of the engineering was completed and passed the acceptance of provincial and
municipal environmental protection bureaus in June 2000. The project was put into preliminary
operation in September 2000 and began formal operation in June 2001. At present, all facilities are
operated in good condition and meet the design requirement completely. According to the need of
environmental management, a 3600 square-meter storehouse for dangerous waste chemical articles was
constructed and put into operation in May 2002.




                                               - 28 -

2.2 Shenyang Environmental Information Center

Shenyang environmental information management system was carried out in two stages. The first stage
included the construction of environmental information management system. From June 1996 to the end
of 2000, the basic construction of environmental information system was carried out with USD 527
thousand. The design and construction of computer room of the system were finished; the system's
equipment was purchased and installed; the development of the system's software was finished;
multimedia display report system was constructed. The second stage focused on upgrading
environmental information system and setting up Shenyang Environment Supervision and Control
Center. The main component was completed by June 30, 2003 and now this system has been put into
operation. The work of the second stage is busily carried out. Within the scope of the whole city, the
system uses advanced method of information science and quick network communication technology to
establish environment monitoring network system for the key pollution sources and key regions. The
system will monitor in real time the atmosphere and the operating condition of pollution source
treatment facilities, etc. Telecommunication links and the storage, display, analysis, and alarm of
dynamic environmental data gives the system the sensitive ability to grasp environmental condition and
provides rapid response ability to pollution matters.

2.3 Shenyang Industry Waste Water Monitoring System

Shenyang Industry Waste Water Monitoring System (SIWSM) is one of environmental protection
sub-projects. By June 30, 2003, the project had completed the construction and the purchase as well as
the installation of equipment, and this system had been gradually put into use. After the establishment,
the SIWMS can precisely monitor 40% industry waste water from important industrial pollution
sources and accurately monitor 100% of urban sewage waste water on a real-time basis. The
discharging condition and amount of these enterprises and domestic wastewater can be grasped at the
same time. Integrated data and analyses can be sent to management center in time, and related
information will be available to the public.

2.4 Shenyang Environmental Protection Training Center

The original loan from the World Bank for Shenyang Environmental Protection Training Center was
USD 1.377 million and in July 2002 the World Bank approved to allocate USD 0.103 million to the
Municipal Environmental Information Center, so the project's current loan is USD 1.274 million. The
civil work of the sub-component was finished in July 1996, and then put into trial operation. Purchase
of training equipment etc. were finished and submitted for use on April 30, 1998. Books and
audiovisual document room began inquiry and purchase in the beginning of April 1999 and
implemented and finished in July. In December 2000, inquiry and purchase about trainees' heating
system was started and in March 2001 rebuilding was finished. The water supply system was rebuilt
and brought into use in June 2002.




                                               - 29 -

2.5 The Use of Fund

                                                                  Expenditure of loan
          No.         Title                   Quantum of loan     (Till June 30 2003)
                      Hazardous Waste
                   1 Treatment Facilities             5,203,900.00         5,160,405.57
                   2 Training Center                  1,274,000.00         1,273,861.66
                      Industrial Waste
                   3 Monitoring System                1,442,100.00         1,425,760.01
                   4 Laboratory                         530,000.00           529,958.96
                   5 Training Center                  1,950,000.00         1,779,269.26
          Total                                      10,400,000.00       10,169,255.46


3. Line of Credit (LOC) Component

Line of credit component involves two financial intermediaries--ICBC Shenyang Branch lending U.S
$30 million to share-holding companies and BOCOM Shenyang Branch lending U.S $10 million to
private enterprises (raised to U.S $30 million after June 2000 Loan adjustment). After approval by
Financial Intermediaries, 33 sub-projects have been implemented, which have helped restructure
enterprises to accommodate modern production standards and market demands.

70% of the pipeline projects are carried out very well. Economic Rate of Return is estimated at 12%;
Rate of Loan Recovery (i.e., interest) is 1.2%; Current Rate of enterprise working capital is at least
1.5:1; and enterprise long-term loan/ equity rate is 70:30.

               Status of fund utilization in LOC under BOCOM            In:USD
       NO.             Project Unit          Loan Amount            Payment                Balance
          1    Qiang-Feng Group              1,950,000.00       1,763,443.14           186,556.86
          2    Jimu Furniture Co.            1,390,000.00       1,390,000.00                   0,00
          3      Sanyo Air Cond.             1,980,000.00       1,980,000.00                       0
          4    Liaoning Baoheng              2,400,000.00       2,400,000.00                   0,00
          5    Yongda Group Co.                900,000.00         900,000.00                   0,00
          6    Liaodong Foundry                570,000.00         570,000.00                   0,00
                                 fac
          7 Yanling Health Prod                280,000.00         274,862.22              5,137.78
          8              Shenyang              530,000.00         530,000.00                   0,00
                       Quansheng
          9      Shengyang Medi              1,500,000.00       1,500,000.00                   0,00
                            Pharm
        10       Shenlong Ceram              4,000,000.00       4,000,000.00                   0,00
TOTAL                                       15,500,000.00      15,308,305.36           191,694.64




                                                - 30 -

               Status of fund utilization in LOC under ICBC               In:USD
No.     Project Unit                    Loan Amount             Payment                 Payment
      1 Shenyang 213 Mach                       2,390,144.00            2,390,144.00                   0
      2 Shenyang Hydraulics                       756,000.00               756,000.00                  0
      3 Xinmin Rolling Fac                      1,295,663.54            1,295,663.54                   0
      4 Shenyang Wangzu Beer                    2,880,000.00            2,880,000.00                   0
      5 Fangyuan Aluminum Lt                    4,000,000.00            3,800,000.00          200,000.00
      6 Fire Truck Works                        1,100,000.00            1,100,000.00                   0
      7 Huali Plastic Co.                         549,077.70               549,077.70                  0
      8 Liaoning Sunnymore                        610,000.00               610,000.00                  0
      9 Shenyang Xinmin Chem                      613,512.94               613,512.94                  0
    10 Shenyang Gugong Phar                     1,380,000.00            1,380,000.00                   0
    11 Shenyang Yilai Ceram                     1,600,000.00            1,600,000.00                   0
    12 Shenyang Elec. Plast                       397,830.07               397,830.07                  0
    13 Shenyang Sanlong Grp                     1,500,000.00            1,497,352.42            2,647.58
    14 Kexun Group Co. Ltd                        920,000.00               920,000.00                  0
    15 Shenyang Glued Paper                     1,800,000.00            1,800,000.00                   0
    16 Shenyang Fareast Syl                       700,000.00               700,000.00                  0
    17 Northeast H.Voltage                        480,000.00               480,000.00                  0
    18 Shenyang Meida Build                     1,550,000.00            1,550,000.00                   0
    19 Jinke Elec.Co.Ltd                          800,000.00               800,000.00                  0
    20 Donggang Decoration                        524,000.00               524,000.00                  0
    21 Shenyang Summit Co.                      1,820,000.00            1,702,147.47          117,852.53
    22 Shenyang Pesticide                         873,000.00               789,012.43          83,987.57
    23 Shenyang Tongwang Co.                    1,283,000.00            1,283,000.00                   0
TOTAL                                          29,822,228.25           29,417,740.57          404,487.68

4. Shenyang Machine Tools Company Limited (SMTCL) Component

The SMTCL Component is the principal part of Shenyang Industry Reform Project, the key point and
the pillar of the Project.

4.1 This component pioneered the concept of combining the structural reform with technical
restructuring, and insisting on a modern enterprise system. On April 27 of 1993,Shenyang Machine
Tools Company was established and converted its fund-collection type to the stock market. SMTCL
diversified its investment resources while maintained as state holding company. SMTCL separated its
non-production units such as employees clinic, schools and kindergartens, etc. and restructured its
production into 7 specialized business units and 1 industrial park. Each of the business units has to be
self-sustainable and face their own market challenge.

4.2 After setting up specialized business units, all the supplying of iron parts, welding parts,
transportation, and casting parts were switched from in-house to contract suppliers.




                                                - 31 -

4.3 The key part of SMTCL component is adjustment of SMTCL's product mix, from traditional
low-value machine tools to high-value computer-numeric controlled (CNC) machine tools.

4.4 With the separation of non-production units from SMTCL, SMTCL used the Loan to downsize
6548 redundant employees, of which 3148 employees were laid-off in year 2001 and 3400 were
re-settled. These employees have been completely separated from SMTCL completely and properly
resettled.

4.5 SMTCL provided 12 training courses for 25 times to all kinds of management staff, in order to
improve their capability in business administration, production development, sales skills, production
technologies, and communication skills. SMTCL also organized 23 overseas training programs. A
total of 3600 employees have been trained.

4.6 12 technical transfer contracts and consulting service have been accomplished.

4.7 In year 2001,
                       Liability/ equity ratio: 1.74
                       Recovery ratio: 157%
                       Liquidity ratio: 1.25
                       Pure profit vs. sales income (net profitability): 7.4%
                       Pure profit vs. assets (return on assets): 2.6%

4.8 Utilized Loan of U.S $ 81,560,000.97

5. Utilized Loan
          Status of fund utilization of Shenyang Industrial Reform Project      In: USD

 No.       Project Unit                 Loan Amount         Used              Balance
 1       TA                             3,600,000.00         2,346,288.93      1,253,711.07
2        SEPB                          10,400,000.00        10,169,255.46       230,744.54
3        LOC                           60,000,000.00        44,726,045.93     15,273,954.07
4        SMTCL                         101,000,000.00       81,560,000.97     19,439,999.03
 TOT     175,000,000.00                138,801,591.29      36,198,408.71
 AL



Part III. Performance of the borrowers


1. The injection of capital from Shenyang Industry Reform Project provided strong fund support to
long-term development of enterprises and will have positive impact on Shenyang's long-term economic
growth.

It is the first time that Shenyang was granted the Bank Loan for an industrial project. Shenyang
municipal government have paid great attention to this project, particularly on pipeline projects
selection so that the valuable Bank Loan have been invested in those projects that support industrial
policies and have great market prospects and development potential. The Bank Loan enabled those
enterprises to enlarge production and to enhance their technologies. The fixed assets have increased
remarkably since the input of the Bank Loan. Never before had such large amount of investment been



                                                 - 32 -

injected into these enterprises since their establishment.

2.The enterprise manufacturing capacity is improved as well as the production level after obtaining the
Loan. Before the loan of the World Bank, these enterprises had problems of outdated manufacturing
technology and capacity. Due to the large sum of loan from the World Bank, the previously existing
problems were resolved.

3.   The loan from the World Bank sped up the pace of enterprise reform and the enterprise
restructuring. Seven state-owned enterprises and five groups have been reformed and restructured, five
years earlier than had been planned.

4. The World Bank Loan sped up the development of private-owned enterprises and made them meet
the requirements of the market competition. There is 37.817m USD for private-owned enterprises,
which occupies 83.11% of the total investment. Joint ventures and private-owned enterprises enlarged
their manufacturing scales by the introduction of of advanced equipments or manufacturing
technologies.    It improved the competitive ability and made the enterprises to adapt to market
requirements.

5. The loan from the World Bank sped up the process of quality improvement and the output
capacity.

6. The program also improved the core competitive capacity of SMTCL, which has been the biggest
and strongest machinery manufacturing enterprise and Chinese CNC machinery development and
manufacturing base.

Part IV. The Performances of the World Bank

The performances of the World Bank plays an active role in the economic development of Shenyang,
the same as other-introduced foreign investment. The World Bank always supported Shenyang
industrial programs in program establishment and execution phases. Experts were sent to China to give
on-site checking and guidance work. The opinions and suggestions were considered seriously by the
enterprises. Corresponding adjustments were made according to the actual happenings, so that the
program was executed in the right direction. In addition, the investment could be arranged in time to
ensure the smooth execution of the program. What gives deep impression is that the World Bank
applied the strict approval procedures through every step of the program. It shall be learned and
operated.

Part V: Performance Ratings

Shenyang World Bank Loan Industrial Reform Project, is a comprehensive counterpart project that
consisted of Shenyang Machine Tools Company Limited (SMTCL) Component, Technical Assistance
(TA) Component, Environmental Protection Component and Financial Intermediary Line of Credit
(LOC) Component. It is proved that the World Bank Project has been successfully implemented.

Assessment of Technical Assistance Component: Fulfiled


Supported by World Bank Loan, this component is mainly focused on Shenyang Municipal
Government reform that aimed at improvement on the administrative capabilities of Municipal Key



                                                  - 33 -

Officials who are in charge of economy and social benefit development, such improvement as better
understanding of market function at the market-oriented society, profound understanding of the reform
of   government      planning,   investment,    financing,  set   price and  better   administration   of
State-owned-assets, etc.

l Enhanced the organization and technical structure of Shenyang Labour Bureau and Labor Service
     Company, formulated an effective Labor market information system that facilitated the
     employment services.
l Improved the practice capabilities of Shenyang Labor Safety Inspection and implementation of
     National Labor Safety Standard.
l Developed an information network and improved the functions of assets acquisition or
     consolidation for Shenyang property transaction center.
l Identified the responsibilities and duty scope for Shenyang State-owned Assets Administration
     Bureau so that it can fully practice its administration right.
l Strengthened the teaching force and instructed with better courses mixture for Shenyang Colleges
     so that it set up some welcomed courses such as Marketing Economy, International Trade,
     Finance, etc., in order to meet the increasing demanding of Key officials and enterprises
     management.
l Trained supervisors for Security Monitoring system in order to improve their comprehensive
     capabilities.
l Facilitated Shenyang Government officials to learn the experiences of social security system from
     advanced countries and some high-quality administrators of social security officials were traind.
l Improved comprehensive capabilities of management of World Bank loan projects.


ASSESSMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION COMPONENT: FUFILLED

This component aimed to build up monitoring system to monitor the major pollution sources and
critical areas so that realize live-monitoring and data collection of environment statue, performance of
pollution-control equipment. After the implementation, it is enable the authorities to realize fully
control of the industrial waste-water from key enterprises and sewage of residential area, as well as the
fast-response to pollution accident.

ASSESSMENT OF LINE OF CREDIT COMPONENT: FUFILLED

1. The World Bank Loan to Shenyang Industrial Reform Project has provided the financial
foundation for the mid and long term development of enterprises, as well as positive impact to
long-term economy growth of the whole city.
2. The enterprises enhanced production capabilities and improved product quality after granted the
Bank Loan.
3. The Bank Loan accelerated the pace of enterprises restructuring and push the progress of
modern-enterprise-system, such as shareholding
4. The Bank Loan promoted the growth of private enterprises and improve their competitive
capabilities to fact market challenge.
5. The Bank Loan improved product quality so as to create more export orders

ASSESSMENT OF SMTCL COMPONENT: FULFILLED

This is most important component of Shenyang Industrial Reform Project, and major segment of the
Bank Loan.


                                                  - 34 -

1. The project ignited the regimen that integrated the reform, reconstruction with reorganization, and
insist on modern enterprise system
2. Reorganized production plants, all the in-house auxiliaries such as wielding parts , iron parts,
casting parts and transportation are separated from main business scope and were switched to outside
contractors.
3. Adjusted product mixture which solved the problem of repeated low-level products,
under-developed of Numerical Controlled Machine Tools.
4. SMTCL used the World Bank Loan to downsized 6548 redundant employees, of which 3148
employees were laid-off in year 2001 and 3400 were re-settled. These employees are separated from
SMTCL completely and were properly resettled.
5. SMTCL provided 12 training courses for 25 times to all kinds of management, in order to improve
their capability of business administration, production development, sales skills, production
technologies and even communication skills. SMTCL also organized 23 overseas training program.
Totally 3600 employees have been trained.
6. 12 technical transfer contracts and consulting service have been accomplished.
7. With the World Bank loan, the SMTCL increased its competitive capabilities of core business and
became the largest machine tools manufacturer in China and the most capable development and
production bases of NC machine tools in China.

FUNCTION OF SHENYANG PROJECT MANAGEMENT OFFICE

SPMO is responsible to coordinate between all organizations of each component and the World Bank.
It is also in charge of the monitoring of service, administration, implementation of the whole project.
SPMO has been appraised many times by the Bank, Shenyang Municipal government, all the pipeline
organizations for its outstanding performance.


Part VI. Lessons

1. It is suggested that the program design and execution shall be more flexible due to long-period
preparation and execution. It is shown as the lag of program establishment to the execution, which will
cause the variances between the actual situations to the prediction. Thus the necessary adjustment shall
be accepted according to the actual situations or give preparation for the unpredicted changes.

2. Purchasing is a very important step in the program execution. The long-term bidding document
writing and contract confirmation would influence the execution of the program.




                                               - 35 -

- 36 -

