Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3788 CHA
Financial Intermediaries
Project Agreement
(Shenyang Industrial Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS LIMITED
and
INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA
Dated January 11, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3788 CHA
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS LIMITED and INDUSTRIAL AND 
COMMERCIAL BANK OF
CHINA (the Financial Intermediaries).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy five 
million dollars ($175,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Financial Intermediaries agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement, that Shenyang 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in the Shenyang 
Project Agreement and that SMTCL agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in the SMTCL Project Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between Shenyang and 
BOCOM and ICBC, respectively, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under 
the Loan Agreement will be relent to the Financial Intermediaries on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the BOCOM Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the ICBC Subsidiary 
Page  2
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Financial Intermediaries, in consideration of the Bank's entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Financial Intermediaries
Section 2.01. Each Financial Intermediary declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out its respective part of Part B.2 of the Project, through its 
Shenyang branch, and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in 
accordance with: (i) for BOCOM, the BOCOM Charter and the BOCOM Policy Guidelines; and 
(ii) for ICBC, the ICBC Charter and the ICBC Policy Statement.
Section 2.02. (a) Each Financial Intermediary undertakes that, unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with the procedures and 
on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
Each Financial Intermediary shall exercise its rights in relation to each 
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and of 
such Financial Intermediary; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and 
its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 2.03. Each Financial Intermediary shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement and its respective part of Part B.2 of the Project.
Section 2.04. Each Financial Intermediary shall duly perform all its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no Financial Intermediary shall take or concur in any action which would have 
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving such Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Each Financial Intermediary shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B.2 of the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each Financial Intermediary shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B.2 of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by 
such Financial Intermediary of its obligations under this Agreement and under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06.  If any Financial Intermediary has, establishes or acquires any 
Subsidiary, such Financial Intermediary shall cause any such Subsidiary to which the 
obligations of such Financial Intermediary under this Agreement relate to observe and 
Page  3
perform such obligations as though such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary. 
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Financial Intermediary shall maintain procedures and 
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part B.2 of the Project and of 
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) 
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices 
the operations and financial condition of such Financial Intermediary.
(b)
Each Financial Intermediary shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 3.02. Each Financial Intermediary shall take such steps satisfactory to 
the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from 
changes in the rates of exchange between the various currencies (including the 
currency of the Borrower) used in its operations. 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the 
Financial Intermediaries thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly 
notify each Financial Intermediary thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
Page  4
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For BOCOM:
Bank of Communications Limited
Shenyang Branch
No. 100, Eleventh Road, Shenhe District
Shenyang 110014
People's Republic of China
Telex:
80336 BCS CN
For ICBC:
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
Shenyang Branch
No. 141, Daxi Street, Shenhe District
Shenyang 110014
People's Republic of China
Telex:
80324 ICBSY CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Financial 
Intermediary may be taken or executed by the President of its Shenyang branch, or such 
other person or persons as such President shall designate in writing, and each 
Financial Intermediary shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS LIMITED
   INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA
Page  5
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Sub-loans
1.
Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans:
 
(a)
Each Sub-loan shall be denominated and payable in dollars and shall bear 
interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a 
rate not less than the sum of (i) the rate applicable from time to time to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement, plus (ii) at least one and two-tenths 
percent (1.2%).
(b)
Each Sub-loan shall be made for a period not exceeding twelve years, 
including up to three years of grace.
(c)
A commitment charge shall be paid on the undisbursed balance of each 
Sub-loan at a rate equal to the commitment charge applicable from time to time to the 
Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement.
(d)
Each Investment Enterprise shall bear the foreign exchange risk on its 
Sub-loan between the dollar and the Renminbi.
(e)
Each Sub-loan shall be made only to an Investment Enterprise which shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Financial Intermediary making said 
Sub-loan, on the basis
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, 
that:
(i)
in the case of an Investment Enterprise carrying out an Investment 
Project 
under Part B.2 (a) of the Project, the Investment 
Enterprise has been 
established as a limited liability 
company or a limited share company under 
the Company Law of the 
Borrower;
(ii)
in the case of an Investment Enterprise carrying out an Investment 
Project 
under Part B.2 (b) of the Project, at least 51% of 
the total capital of said 
Investment Enterprise is owned by private 
individuals or entities which are at 
least 51% owned by private 
individuals;
(iii)
the Investment Enterprise is creditworthy and has a sound 
financial position 
and prospects and will be in a position to service 
its debt under the 
Sub-loan;
 
(iv)
the proposed Investment Project is technically, commercially and 
financially 
viable, has been designed in accordance with appropriate 
health, safety and 
environmental standards, and will have a financial 
rate of return of not less 
than 12 percent and an economic rate of 
return of not less than 12 percent; 
and
 
(v)
the Investment Enterprise will be able to finance at least 20 
percent of the 
proposed Investment Project's total investment costs 
from its own resources.
(f)
The amount of any one Sub-loan and the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans 
(i) to a single Investment Enterprise shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000 
and (ii) for single
Investment Projects shall not exceed the total estimated cost of said Investment 
Project (excluding the cost of land).
Page  6
2.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to 
the date on which the
Bank shall have received the application and information required under paragraph 3(a) 
of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 3(b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.  For the 
purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a 
Sub-loan (other than the first two Sub-loans made by each Financial Intermediary) for 
an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $2,000,000 equivalent in respect of a Sub-loan 
made under Part B.2 (a) of the Project and $1,000,000 equivalent in respect of a 
Sub-loan made under Part B.2 (b) of the Project, when added to any other outstanding 
amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any 
other loan, provided for in any outstanding loan agreement between the Bank and the 
Borrower entered into before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which have 
been or are being used for financing goods and services directly and
materially related to such Investment Project, the foregoing amounts being subject to 
change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, a Financial Intermediary shall furnish to the Bank an application, in 
form satisfactory
to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an 
appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; 
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by a Financial Intermediary for authorization to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: 
(i) a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before December 31, 1997.
4.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Financial Intermediary shall 
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate 
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and such Financial 
Intermediary, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; 
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and (ii)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
Page  7
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such 
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery 
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the 
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or such Financial Intermediary 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under
its contract with such Financial Intermediary.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
1.
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
2.
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, each Financial 
Intermediary shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, 
with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, each Financial Intermediary shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
International Shopping
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or less and more than 
$200,000 per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers from at least 
two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Local Shopping
2.
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
Page  8
obtained from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.
Direct Contracting
3.
Goods which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary nature may be procured under 
contracts awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part A hereof estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
