Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3788 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Shenyang Industrial Reform Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 11, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3788 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1995, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A and C of the Project will be carried out by Shenyang Municipality 
(Shenyang) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to Shenyang the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement;
(C)
Part B.1 of the Project will be carried out by Shenyang Machine Tool 
Company Limited (SMTCL) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, Shenyang will make available to SMTCL a portion of the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
(D)
Part B.2 of the Project will be carried out by Bank of Communications 
Limited (BOCOM) and the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) (the Financial 
Intermediaries) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
Shenyang will make available to the Financial Intermediaries a portion of the proceeds 
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Shenyang Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and Shenyang and the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and the Financial Intermediaries;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loan" of the Bank, dated February 9, 1993, with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BOCOM" means the Bank of Communications Limited, a national joint-stock 
commercial bank, established and operating as a bank under the laws of the Borrower 
and in accordance with the BOCOM Charter.
(b)
"BOCOM Charter" means the Charter of the Bank of Communications Limited, 
adopted by the shareholders of BOCOM and  approved by the People's Bank of China, 
dated July 12, 1994.
(c)
"BOCOM Policy Guidelines" means the statements of operating policies and 
procedures approved by BOCOM, including the administrative rules of BOCOM on 
asset-liability management, dated June 3, 1994, and the policy and operations 
guidelines of BOCOM's Shenyang branch, dated July 1, 1987, as revised thereafter with 
the Bank's concurrence.
(d)
"BOCOM Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement to be entered into 
between Shenyang and BOCOM pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of the Shenyang Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the BOCOM Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e)
"Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(f)
"Financial Intermediaries" means BOCOM and ICBC, collectively, and 
"Financial Intermediary" means any of the Financial Intermediaries.
(g)
"Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement" means the agreement between 
the Bank and BOCOM and ICBC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.
(h)
"foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of the 
Borrower.
(i)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
the Financial
Intermediaries Project Agreement.
(j)
"ICBC" means the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, established and 
operating as a bank under the laws of the Borrower and in accordance with the ICBC 
Page  3
Charter.
(k)
"ICBC Charter" means the Charter of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of 
China, approved by the State Council on recommendation of the People's Bank of China 
on November 15, 1989.
(l)
"ICBC Policy Statement" means the policy statement approved by ICBC in 
July 1989, as revised thereafter with the Bank's concurrence.
(m)
"ICBC Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement to be entered into 
between Shenyang and ICBC pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of the Shenyang Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the ICBC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(n)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which one of the Financial 
Intermediaries proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(o)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise under Part B.2 of the Project utilizing the proceeds 
of a Sub-loan.
(p)
"Reform Action Program" means the Reform Action Program attached to the 
letter dated February 28, 1994, from Shenyang to the Bank.
(q)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower. 
 
(r)
"Shenyang" means Shenyang Municipality, the capital of the Borrower's 
Province of Liaoning.
(s)
"Shenyang Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 
Shenyang of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Shenyang Project 
Agreement.
(t)
"SMTCL" means the Shenyang Machine Tool Company Limited, a limited 
liability shareholding corporation established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower and the SMTCL Charter.
(u)
"SMTCL Charter" means the Charter of SMTCL, dated May 21, 1994, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of the Bank.
(v)
"SMTCL Management Restructuring Plan" means the phased program of 
restructuring of the functions and responsibilities of the management and internal 
organization of SMTCL, as approved by the SMTCL Board of Directors in August 1994.
(w)
"SMTCL Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and SMTCL 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the SMTCL Project Agreement.
(x)
"SMTCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement to be entered into 
between Shenyang and SMTCL pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the Shenyang Project 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the SMTCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(y)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(z)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by one of the 
Financial Intermediaries out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise 
for an Investment Project.
(aa)
"Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding 
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by a 
Financial Intermediary or by any one or more Subsidiaries of said Financial 
Intermediary or by said Financial Intermediary and any one or more of its 
Subsidiaries.
Page  4
(bb)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the SMTCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
the BOCOM Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the ICBC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement"
means any one of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred seventy-five 
million dollars ($175,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Parts A, B.1 and C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by one of the Financial 
Intermediaries on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a 
Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment 
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to Single Currency LIBOR, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%), plus 
or minus the Average Margin as provided in paragraph (b) (iv) below.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to but not including the first Interest Payment 
Date and thereafter 
the period from and including any Interest 
Payment Date to but not including 
the next Interest Payment Date.
 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
 
(iii)
"Single Currency LIBOR" means the London interbank offered rate 
for dollars,
expressed as a percentage per annum, reasonably determined by the 
Bank in 
accordance with Schedule 6 to this Agreement for the 
January 15 or July 15 on 
which an Interest Period commences (or, for 
the initial Interest Period, the 
January 15 or July 15 preceding the date 
of this Agreement or on which such 
Interest Period commences).
 
(iv)
"Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period, the weighted 
average margin, 
for the Semester preceding the relevant January 15 or 
July 15, between: (A) 
the cost of the outstanding borrowings of the 
Bank or portions thereof 
allocated to the funding of single 
currency loans in all currencies, and (B) 
the specific London and, 
for French francs, Paris interbank  offered rates or 
other such reference 
Page  5
rates attributable to such borrowings in each such 
currency, all 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.  For any Interest Period in which (A) exceeds (B), the 
Average Margin shall be added under paragraph (a) above. For any Interest 
Period in which (B) exceeds (A), the Average Margin shall be 
subtracted under 
paragraph (a) above.
 
(v)
"Semester" means the first six months or second six months of a 
calendar year.
(c)
After the Bank shall have determined Single Currency LIBOR and the 
Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such determination.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Use of the Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
the Borrower shall cause Shenyang, SMTCL and the Financial Intermediaries to perform 
all their respective obligations set forth in the Shenyang Project Agreement, the 
SMTCL Project Agreement and the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, shall take 
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Shenyang, SMTCL and 
the Financial Intermediaries to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to Shenyang on the 
following principal terms and conditions: (i) repayment over a period not exceeding 20 
years, including five years of grace; (ii) interest at a rate equal to the rate 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of this 
Agreement; (iii) a commitment charge equal to the commitment charge applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and (iv) foreign 
exchange risk to be borne by Shenyang.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Shenyang Project Agreement 
(for Parts A and C of the Project), Schedule 1 to the SMTCL Project Agreement (for 
Part B.1 of the Project) and Schedule 2 to the Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement (for Part B.2 of the Project).
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively): (a) in respect of Parts A and C of the Project shall 
be carried out by Shenyang pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Shenyang Project Agreement; 
(b) in respect of Part B.1 of the Project shall be carried out by SMTCL pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the SMTCL Project Agreement; and (c) in respect of Part B.2 of the 
Project shall be carried out by the Financial Intermediaries
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  6
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A and C of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Shenyang, SMTCL or any Financial Intermediary shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the Shenyang Project Agreement, SMTCL Project 
Agreement or Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, respectively.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Shenyang, SMTCL or
any Financial Intermediary will be able to perform its obligations under the Shenyang 
Project Agreement, SMTCL Project Agreement or Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement, respectively.
(c)
The BOCOM Charter, ICBC Charter or the SMTCL Charter or the BOCOM Policy 
Guidelines or the ICBC Policy Statement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition of 
Page  7
SMTCL or any Financial Intermediary or its ability to carry out any of its respective 
obligations under the SMTCL Project Agreement or the Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SMTCL or any Financial 
Intermediary or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement; and
 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of Shenyang 
and SMTCL, BOCOM and ICBC, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Shenyang Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Shenyang and is legally binding upon Shenyang in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the SMTCL Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
SMTCL and is legally binding upon SMTCL in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by each Financial Intermediary and is legally binding upon each 
Financial Intermediary in
accordance with its terms; and
(d)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by Shenyang and by SMTCL, BOCOM and ICBC,  respectively, and are legally binding upon 
the Borrower and SMTCL, BOCOM and ICBC, respectively, in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  8
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)           Financed
(1)  Sub-loans:
     (a) under Part B.2 (a)        30,000,000      100% of amounts
Page  9
         of the Project                            disbursed by a
                                                   Financial
                                                   Intermediary
     (b) under Part B.2 (b)        10,000,000
         of the Project
(2)  Goods, including
     technical licenses:
     (a) under Parts A and C        8,500,000      100% of foreign
         of the Project                            expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
     (b) under Part B.1 of        104,500,000      expenditures
         the Project                               (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 75%
                                                   of local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items
                                                   procured locally
(3) Consultants' services                          100%
    and training:
    (a) under Parts A and         4,500,000
        C of the Project
    (b) under Part B.1 of         4,000,000
        the Project
(4) Unallocated                  13,500,000
                                 ___________
          TOTAL                  175,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 1 to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement; and (b) payments made 
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
under contracts for goods and for expenditures under Sub-loans not 
exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (b) under contracts with consulting firms not exceeding 
$100,000 and with individual consultants not exceeding $50,000; and (c) for 
expenditures for training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (1) to assist Shenyang in the reform and 
reorganization of its industrial sector, especially the engineering industry, through 
Page  10
support for the implementation of its Reform Action Program and investments in 
industrial restructuring; and (2) to assist Shenyang in promoting environmentally 
sustainable industrial development, through strengthening of environmental protection 
facilities and management.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Implementation Support for the Reform Action Program 
 
Strengthening of the capacity for implementation of key aspects of the Reform 
Action Program, through the:
1.
provision of training to government officials in economics, finance, accounting, 
international trade and other reform-related topics, within and outside China;
2.
development of an information network for labor market information and provision 
of training to employment services staff in labor market and management topics;
3.
provision of training to industrial safety inspectors and enterprise staff in 
industrial safety inspection;
4.
carrying out of a program to facilitate mergers and acquisitions of enterprises 
consisting of simplification of administrative procedures therefor, development of 
marketing strategies, provision of training to staff of the Property Rights 
Transaction Center in Shenyang and  development of an information system;
5.
carrying out of a program to strength the organization and management of the 
State Assets Management Bureau and State Assets Management Company in Shenyang, 
including the provision of training to staff thereof; and
6.
carrying out of a program to strengthen the teaching capabilities of faculty of 
Shenyang College of Economics and Finance, including the provision of overseas 
training and exchange programs.
Part B:
Industrial Restructuring
 
1.
Carrying out of a program of physical and management restructuring of SMTCL to 
modernize facilities, rationalize processes and establish an effective management 
system, including:
(a)
construction and equipping of specialized and assembly shops;
 
(b)
replacement of existing foundries with a modern, environmentally 
acceptably foundry;
(c)
acquisition and development of advanced technology for product design and 
development;
(d)
disposition of assets;
 
(e)
reduction of workforce; and
 
(f)
training of staff and management in management, product design, 
operations and language capabilities.
2.
Financing of specific modernization and industrial restructuring projects of 
industrial enterprises in Shenyang, through Sub-loans to: (a) enterprises of any form 
of ownership; and (b) private enterprises.
Part C:
Environmental Protection
 
1.
Establishment, construction and equipping of a municipal hazardous waste 
treatment facility to dispose of and treat hazardous waste, including a landfill, and 
treatment, collection and transportation facilities.
Page  11
2.
Development and introduction of a suitable structure and levels of tariffs for 
the collection, treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes.
3.
Establishment of an industrial effluent water quality monitoring network, 
through construction and equipping of monitoring stations, monitoring facilities and 
testing facilities.
4.
Strengthening of the capacity of Shenyang Environmental Protection Bureau, 
through development of an environmental management information system, a central 
hazardous waste
laboratory and a training center, and provision of consultants' services and training 
in monitoring, research, planning and management.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
    January 15, 2000                           
3,785,000
    July 15, 2000                              
3,895,000
    January 15, 2001                           
4,005,000
    July 15, 2001                              
4,115,000
    January 15, 2002                           
4,230,000
    July 15, 2002                              
4,350,000
    January 15, 2003                           
4,475,000
    July 15, 2003                              
4,600,000
    January 15, 2004                           
4,730,000
    July 15, 2004                              
4,865,000
    January 15, 2005                           
5,000,000
    July 15, 2005                              
5,140,000
    January 15, 2006                           
5,285,000
    July 15, 2006                              
5,435,000
    January 15, 2007                           
5,590,000
    July 15, 2007                              
5,745,000
    January 15, 2008                           
5,910,000
    July 15, 2008                              
6,075,000
    January 15, 2009                           
6,245,000
    July 15, 2009                              
6,425,000
    January 15, 2010                           
6,605,000
    July 15, 2010                              
6,790,000
    January 15, 2011                           
6,980,000
    July 15, 2011                              
7,180,000
    January 15, 2012                           
7,380,000
    July 15, 2012                              
7,590,000
    January 15, 2013                           
7,805,000
    July 15, 2013                              
8,025,000
    January 15, 2014                           
8,250,000
    July 15, 2014                              
8,495,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
Page  12
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Investment Projects and for Parts 
A, B.1 and C of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions 
of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Financial Intermediaries
Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have 
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, 
however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently 
authorize such withdrawals; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
Page  13
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
 
"21. The term 'Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement' has the 
meaning set forth 
in paragraph (f) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement."
 
(3)
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the 
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in subparagraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to the 
Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of 
any portion of the Loan: (i) 
have received no applications or requests permitted 
under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said 
paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice to  the Borrower and Guarantor, 
terminate the right to submit such applications or approvals or 
to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount 
or portion of 
the Loan.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan 
shall 
be cancelled."
SCHEDULE 6
Single Currency LIBOR Determination
Page  14
1.
Single Currency LIBOR for any Interest Period shall be the offered rate for 
deposits in dollars for a period of six months which appears on the display designated 
as page "3750" on the Telerate monitor (or such other page or service as may replace 
it for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of major banks for 
dollars deposits), as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second day on which banks and 
foreign exchange markets are open for business in London prior to the relevant January 
15 or July 15 (the Interest Determination Date).
2.
If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on such service as may 
replace it, the Bank shall request the London offices of four major banks to provide 
the Bank with the rate at which deposits in dollars are offered by such banks on the 
Interest Determination Date to leading banks in the London interbank market for a 
period of six months ending on the last day of such Interest Period.  Single Currency 
LIBOR for such Interest Period shall be the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if 
necessary to the fifth decimal place) of such offered quotations as determined by the 
Bank.
3.
If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such quotations under 
paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if 
necessary to the fifth
decimal place) determined by the Bank of the rates quoted by at least two major banks 
in New York City selected by the Bank on the Interest Determination Date for loans in 
dollars to leading European banks for a period of six months ending on the lastday  of 
such Interest Period. If fewer than two of the banks so selected are quoting such 
rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the single currency in effect for the last 
preceding Interest Period.
