Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3788 CHA
SMTCL
Project Agreement
(Shenyang Industrial Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHENYANG MACHINE TOOL COMPANY LIMITED
Dated January 11, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3788 CHA
SMTCL PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHENYANG MACHINE TOOL COMPANY LIMITED (SMTCL).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy-five 
million dollars ($175,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that SMTCL agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement, that Shenyang agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in the Shenyang Project Agreement and 
that the Financial Intermediaries agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement;
WHEREAS SMTCL, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SMTCL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part B.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and industrial practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for Part B.1 of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and SMTCL shall otherwise agree, SMTCL shall carry out Part B.1 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
technical licenses and consultants' services required for Part B.1 of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SMTCL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the SMTCL Project Agreement and Part B.1 of 
the Project.
Section 2.04. SMTCL shall duly perform all its obligations under the SMTCL 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMTCL shall not 
take nor concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the SMTCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SMTCL shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B.1 of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and the SMTCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SMTCL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B.1 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of
Loan, or the performance by SMTCL of its obligations under this Agreement and under 
the SMTCL Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SMTCL
Section 3.01. SMTCL shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and industrial practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SMTCL shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and industrial practices.
Section 3.03. SMTCL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  3
Section 4.01. (a) SMTCL shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SMTCL shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMTCL shall not: (i) 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of SMTCL 
shows that the estimated net revenues of SMTCL for each fiscal year during the term of 
the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of SMTCL in such year on all debt of SMTCL including the debt to be 
incurred; or (ii) declare any dividend or make any other distribution with respect to 
its share capital, unless such a forecast shows that after such dividend has been paid 
or other distribution has been made, the estimated net revenues for that fiscal year 
shall be at least 1.5 times such estimated debt service requirements.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMTCL shall maintain a ratio of 
current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.3 commencing in the fiscal 
year ending December 31, 2002.
(c)
Before April 30 in each of its fiscal years, SMTCL shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by SMTCL and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion.
(d)
If any such review shows that SMTCL would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) for SMTCL's fiscal years covered by such review, SMTCL 
shall promptly take
all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or 
levels of its prices) in order to meet such requirements.
(e)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SMTCL maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
Page  4
administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges 
and interest and other charges on debt.
 
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by SMTCL 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Bank and SMTCL accept as reasonable and as 
to which the Bank has notified 
SMTCL of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or 
may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results
of SMTCL.
(vii)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating 
expenses within the next fiscal year.
(viii) The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and
payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for 
payment 
within twelve months, including accounts payable, 
customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(ix) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) SMTCL shall carry out a program satisfactory to the Bank, to 
reduce its inventory so that its inventory levels satisfactory to the Bank shall not 
exceed: (i) 140 inventory days for its fiscal year ending December 31, 1996 and each 
of its fiscal years thereafter through  its fiscal year ending December 31, 1999; and 
(ii) 120 inventory days for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2000, and each of its 
fiscal years thereafter.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the number of inventory days shall be calculated by dividing the 
total cost of
SMTCL's inventory as at December 31 of the fiscal year by the 
sales revenues 
per day for that fiscal year; and
 
(ii)
"sales revenues per day" means the total sales revenues for the 
fiscal year 
divided by 360 days.
 
Section 4.04.  SMTCL shall, by April 30 in each year, commencing April 30, 1995, 
through April 30, 2002, prepare and furnish to the Bank for review a rolling long-term 
financial plan (including projected income statements, sources and uses of funds and 
Page  5
balance sheets) for a period of no less than 5 years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SMTCL 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SMTCL thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For SMTCL:
Shenyang Machine Tool Company Limited
No. 247, Xishuncheng Street, Shenhe District
Shenyang 110011
People's Republic of China
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SMTCL may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or such other person or 
persons as such Chairman shall designate in writing, and SMTCL shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  6
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SHENYANG MACHINE TOOL COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A.1 SMTCL shall 
use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant 
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, SMTCL shall use bidding 
documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the 
Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Limited International Bidding
1.
Goods (including technical licenses) which the Bank agrees are supplied through 
a limited number of sources and which are estimated to cost an amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of $30,300,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
Page  7
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation 
and comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
Shopping
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Direct Contracting
3.
Goods (including technical licenses) which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary 
nature may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part A.1 of this Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 
or more, and (ii) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 
of the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to  ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist SMTCL in carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, SMTCL shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines"). For 
complex, time-based assignments, SMTCL shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, SMTCL shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not 
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
Page  8
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
SMTCL shall carry out the SMTCL Management Restructuring Plan in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
SMTCL shall carry out the disposition of non-productive assets and reduction in 
workforce under Part B.1 (d) and (e) of the Project, respectively, each in accordance 
with a program satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
SMTCL shall maintain its project implementation unit, to coordinate and manage 
overall implementation of the restructuring program, with competent staff in adequate 
numbers and with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
4.
SMTCL shall carry out the training under Part B.1 (f) of the Project in 
accordance with a training program satisfactory to the Bank.
