Page  1
June 15, 2000
Mr. Cai Zhenghao 
President, 
Shenyang Branch Bank of Communications Limited 
No. 100, Eleventh Road, 
Shenhe District 
Shenyang 110014 
People’s Republic of China
Mr. Wang Xiushan 
President, 
Shenyang Branch Industrial and Commercial Bank of China 
No. 141, Daxi Street, 
Shenhe District 
Shenyang 110014 
People’s Republic of China
Dear Sirs:
RE:  Shenyang Industrial Reform Project (Ln. 3788-CHA)
Amendment to Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement
1.
I refer to: (a) the Loan Agreement between the People’s Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), 
dated January 11, 1995, as amended (the Loan Agreement); (b) the Project Agreement, of 
even date with the Loan Agreement, between the Bank and Shenyang Municipality, as 
amended (the Shenyang Project Agreement); (c) the Project Agreement, of even date with 
the Loan Agreement, between the Bank and Bank of Communications Limited (BOCOM) and 
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) (the Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement); and (d) the Project Agreement, of even date with the Loan Agreement, 
between the Bank and the Shenyang Machine Tool Company Limited (SMTCL) (the SMTCL 
Project Agreement).  I also refer to the letter dated April 18, 2000 from Mr. Wu Gang, 
Deputy Director General, International Department, Ministry of Finance, on behalf of 
the Borrower, requesting amendments to the Loan Agreement, the Shenyang Project 
Agreement, the Fin
ancial Intermediaries Project Agreement and the SMTCL Project Agreement in order to, 
among other things, permit the financing under the Loan Agreement of certain 
expenditures under the SMTCL Labor Reduction Plan (as defined in the Loan Agreement).
2.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs with the Borrower’s  proposal 
and hereby agrees to amend the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement as 
hereinafter provided.
3.
Schedule 1.  The second sentence of paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 1 is amended to 
read as follows:
“For the purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit 
Sub-loan 
shall be a Sub-loan (other than the first two Sub-loans made by 
each Financial Intermediary) 
for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan which 
shall not exceed the sum of $2,000,000 
equivalent in respect of a Sub-loan made under Part 
B.2(a) of the Project or, except 
as the Bank may otherwise agree, $1,000,000 equivalent in 
respect of Sub-loan made 
under Part B.2(b) of the Project, when added to any other 
outstanding amounts 
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or 
of any other 
loan, provided for in any outstanding loan agreement between the Bank and the 
Borrower entered into before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which have 
been or 
are being used for financing goods and services directly and materially 
related to such 
Investment Project, the foregoing amounts being subject to 
change from time to time as 
determined by the Bank.” 
4.
Schedule 1.  Paragraph 3(c) of Schedule 1 is amended by changing the date 
“December 31, 1997” to “December 31, 2001”.
5.
Schedule 2 to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement is amended to read 
as set forth in the attachment to this letter.
Page  2
6.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Financial 
Intermediaries Project Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the 
Bank of: (a) the copy of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized 
representatives of BOCOM and ICBC; (b) the copy of the letter of amendment from the 
Bank to the Borrower concerning amendments to the Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement 
amendment), duly countersigned by the authorized representative of the Borrower; (c) 
the copy of the letter of amendment from the Bank to SMTCL concerning amendments to 
the SMTCL Project Agreement (the SMTCL Project Agreement amendment), duly 
countersigned by the authorized representative of SMTCL; and (d) the copy of the 
letter of amendment from the Bank to Shenyang Municipality concerning amendments to 
the Shenyang Project Agreement (the Shenyang Project Agreement amendment), duly 
countersigned by the authorized representative of Shenyang, the above amendments shall 
become effective as of the date of countersignature of the Loan Agreement amendment. 
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Country Director, China 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED BANK OF COMMUNICATIONS LIMITED
By /s/ Zhao Yujun
Authorized Representative
Date:
August 15, 2000
INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA
By /s/ Di Kejian
Authorized Representative
Date:
August 15, 2000
Attachment to Letter of Amendment 
SCHEDULE 2 
Procurement Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Page  3
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Commercial Practices 
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with established local commercial 
practices in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.12 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B above and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
