Page  1
June 15, 2000
Mr. Yao Junxi 
Chairman 
Shenyang Machine Tool Company Limited 
No. 247, Xishuncheng Street, 
Shenhe District 
Shenyang 110011 
People’s Republic of China
Dear  Sir:
RE:  
Shenyang Industrial Reform Project (Ln. 3788-CHA)
Amendment to SMTCL Project Agreement
1.
I refer to: (a) the Loan Agreement between the People’s Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), 
dated January 11, 1995, as amended (the Loan Agreement); (b) the Project Agreement, of 
even date with the Loan Agreement, between the Bank and Shenyang Municipality, as 
amended (the Shenyang Project Agreement); (c) the Project Agreement, of even date with 
the Loan Agreement, between the Bank and Bank of Communications Limited (BOCOM) and 
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) (the Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement); and (d) the Project Agreement, of even date with the Loan Agreement, 
between the Bank and the Shenyang Machine Tool Company Limited (SMTCL) (the SMTCL 
Project Agreement).  I also refer to the letter dated April 18, 2000 from Mr. Wu Gang, 
Deputy Director General, International Department, Ministry of Finance, on behalf of 
the Borrower, requesting amendments to the Loan Agreement, the Shenyang Project 
Agreement, the Fin
ancial Intermediaries Project Agreement and the SMTCL Project Agreement in order to, 
among other things, permit the financing under the Loan Agreement of certain 
expenditures under the SMTCL Labor Reduction Plan (as defined in the Loan Agreement).
2.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs with the Borrower’s  proposal 
and hereby agrees to amend the SMTCL Project Agreement as hereinafter provided.
3. 
Section 4.05.  A new Section 4.05 is added after Section 4.04, as follows:
“Section 4.05.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMTCL shall, no 
later than 
December 31, 2000, reduce the average collection period for all of 
SMTCL’s accounts 
receivable to 110 days or less.  For the purposes of this 
paragraph, the average collection 
period shall be calculated in accordance with 
a methodology satisfactory to the Bank.” 4.
Schedule 1 to the SMTCL Project 
Agreement shall be amended to read as set forth on the 
attachment to this 
letter.
5.
Schedule 2.    Schedule 2 to the SMTCL Project Agreement is amended by adding a 
new paragraph 5 at the end thereof, as follows:
“5.
In carrying out Part B.1(e) of the Project, SMTCL shall: (a) carry 
out the 
SMTCL Labor Reduction Plan in accordance with all applicable laws 
and in a manner and 
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, achieve no net increase in 
employment, including staff employed by wholly or 
partially-owned 
subsidiaries and joint venture companies; and (c) ensure that workers 
separated under the SMTCL Labor Reduction Plan are not subsequently re-employed by 
SMTCL or 
any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.” 
6.
Please confirm the agreement of SMTCL to the amendments set forth in paragraphs 
3 through 6 above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of confirmation 
set forth below, and returning one fully signed original of this amendment letter to 
us.  One fully signed original should be retained by SMTCL.  
7.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the SMTCL Project 
Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Bank of: (a) the copy 
of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized representative of 
SMTCL; (b) the copy of the letter of amendment from the Bank to the Borrower 
Page  2
concerning amendments to the Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement amendment), duly 
countersigned by the authorized representative of the Borrower; (c) the copy of the 
letter of amendment from the Bank to BOCOM and ICBC concerning amendments to the 
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement (the Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement amendment), duly countersigned by the authorized representatives of BOCOM 
and ICBC; and (d) the copy of the letter of amendment from the Bank to Shenyang 
Municipality concerning amendments to the Shenyang Project Agreement (the Shenyang 
Project Agreement amendment), duly countersigned by the authorized representative of 
Shenyang, the above amendments shall become effective as of the date of 
countersignature of the Loan Agreement amendment.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Country Director, China 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED SHENYANG MACHINE TOOL COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ Yao Junxi
Authorized Representative
Date:
July 14, 2000
Attachment to Letter of Amendment 
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
Page  3
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Goods (including technical licenses) which the Bank agrees can only be purchased 
from a limited number of sources, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods (including technical licenses) which are of a proprietary nature may, with 
the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Part B above and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, and each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Part C.2 and C.3 above and estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  4
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines] shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  5
