Page  1
June 15, 2000
Mr. Wu Gang 
Deputy Director General 
International Department Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 
People’s Republic of China
Dear  Sir:
RE:  
Shenyang Industrial Reform Project (Ln. 3788-CHA)
Amendment to Loan Agreement
1.
I refer to: (a) the Loan Agreement between the People’s Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), 
dated January 11, 1995, as amended (the Loan Agreement); (b) the Project Agreement, of 
even date with the Loan Agreement, between the Bank and Shenyang Municipality, as 
amended (the Shenyang Project Agreement); (c) the Project Agreement, of even date with 
the Loan Agreement, between the Bank and Bank of Communications Limited (BOCOM) and 
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) (the Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement); and (d) the Project Agreement, of even date with the Loan Agreement, 
between the Bank and the Shenyang Machine Tool Company Limited (SMTCL) (the SMTCL 
Project Agreement).  I also refer to the letter dated April 18, 2000 from Mr. Wu Gang, 
Deputy Director General, International Department, Ministry of Finance, on behalf of 
the Borrower, requesting amendments to the Loan Agreement, the Shenyang Project 
Agreement, the Fin
ancial Intermediaries Project Agreement and the SMTCL Project Agreement in order to, 
among other things, permit the financing under the Loan Agreement of certain 
expenditures under the SMTCL Labor Reduction Plan (as defined in the Loan Agreement).
2.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs with the Borrower’s  proposal 
and hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as hereinafter provided.
3.
Section 1.02.  Section 1.02 is amended by adding the following definitions at 
the end thereof:
“(cc) “Labor Reduction Expense” means an expenditure incurred by SMTCL in 
accordance 
with the SMTCL Labor Reduction Plan for cash payments made or to be made 
to or for the 
benefit of an employee of SMTCL or for retraining or 
remployment services provided to 
employees, in connection with labor force 
reduction.”
“(dd) “SMTCL Labor Reduction Plan” means SMTCL’s plan, dated October 27, 
1999, as 
such plan may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank, for the 
retrenchment, retraining and outplacement of SMTCL staff.”
2.
Section 2.02.  Clause (i) of subparagraph (a) of Section 2.02 is amended to read 
as follows:
“(i)
expenditures made (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B.1 and C 
of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and of Labor 
Reduction Expenses required for Part 
B.1(e) of the Project, in each case to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Loan;” 
3.
Section 2.03.  The date June 30, 2003 is established as the later date for 
purposes of Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement.
4.
Schedule 1.  The table set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement is revised as follows:
     Amount of the 
   % of
     Loan Allocated   
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
Page  2
(1)
Sub-loans
(a) under Part 
30,000,000
100% of amounts disbursed
B.2(a) of the 
by a Financial 
Intermediary
Project
(b) under Part 
30,000,000
B.2 (b) of the
Project
(2)
Goods, including technical
licenses
(a) under Parts A and C
 8,721,900
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
of the Project
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 75% 
of
local expenditures for 
other
items procured locally
(b) under Part B.1
79,001,000
of the Project
(3)
Labor Reduction Expenses
10,000,000
100% of amounts paid by 
SMTCL
(4)
Consultants’ services
and training
(a) under Parts A and C
 2,577,400
100%
of the Project
(b) under Part B.1 
 7,120,000
of the Project
(5)
Civil works under
 2,060,700
70%
Part C.1 of the Project
(6)
Unallocated
 5,519,000
TOTAL
      175,000,000
5.
Schedule 1.  Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows:
“3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has 
been made in accordance with the  procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in Schedule 1 to the 
Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement; (b) expenditures in respect of a Labor Reduction 
Expense unless the 
Labor Reduction Expense has been made in accordance with Schedule 2 to 
the SMTCL 
Project Agreement; and (c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement.”
6.
Schedule 1.  Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows:
“4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis  of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for 
goods and for 
expenditures under Sub-loans not exceeding $2,000,000 
equivalent; (b) under contracts with 
consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 and 
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000;  (c) under contracts for works not 
exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent; and (d) for expenditures 
for training and Labor 
Reduction Expenses, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.”
Page  3
7.
Schedule 2.  Subparagraph (e) of Part B of Schedule 2 is amended to read as 
follows:
“(e)
reduction of workforce, by establishment of appropriate incentive 
schemes for 
staff early retirement and voluntary separation, severance payment 
schemes for remaining 
redundant staff, retraining programs and job 
searching and outplacement assistance, aiming  to reduce SMTCL’s staff by about 6,500 
workers, based on total registered staff of 13,807 as 
of September 1998;”
8.
Schedule 4.  Subparagraph (a) of Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 is amended to read as 
follows:
“(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) 
and (5) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;”
9.
Schedule 4.  Subparagraph (b) of Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 is amended to read as 
follows:
“(b)
the term ‘eligible expenditures’ means expenditures in respect of 
the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Investment Projects 
and for Parts A, B.1 
and C of the Project and the reasonable cost of Labor 
Reduction Expenses required under Part 
B.1(e) of the Project, in each case to 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, 
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2(b)  of Schedule 1 
to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement, payments for expenditures 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the special 
Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in 
respect 
thereof.  Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible 
expenditures only if the 
Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; 
and”  
10.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendments set forth in 
paragraphs 3 through 9 above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of 
confirmation set forth below, and returning one fully signed original of this 
amendment letter to us.  One fully signed original should be retained by the Borrower.  
11.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Loan 
Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Bank of: (a) the copy 
of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized representative of the 
Borrower; (b) the copy of the letter of amendment from the Bank to Shenyang 
Municipality concerning amendments to the Shenyang Project Agreement (the Shenyang 
Project Agreement amendment), duly countersigned by the authorized representative of 
Shenyang Municipality; (c) the copy of the letter of amendment from the Bank to BOCOM 
and ICBC concerning amendments to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement (the 
Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement amendment), duly countersigned by the 
authorized representatives of BOCOM and ICBC; and (d) the copy of the letter of 
amendment from the Bank to SMCTL concerning amendments to the SMTCL Project Agreement 
(the SMTCL Project Agreement amendment), duly countersigned by the authorized 
representative of SMTCL, the above amendments shall become effective as of the date of 
countersignature of this letter of amendment.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Country Director, China 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Page  4
Authorized Representative
Date:
June 21, 2000
