Page  1
June 15, 2000
Mr. Jiang Xianzhi 
Executive Vice-Mayor 
Shenyang Municipality 
No. 78, Beiyijing Street, 
Shenhe District 
Shenyang 110014 
People’s Republic of China
Dear  Sir:
RE:  
Shenyang Industrial Reform Project (Ln. 3788-CHA)
Amendment to Shenyang Project Agreement
1.
I refer to: (a) the Loan Agreement between the People’s Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), 
dated January 11, 1995, as amended (the Loan Agreement); (b) the Project Agreement, of 
even date with the Loan Agreement, between the Bank and Shenyang Municipality, as 
amended (the Shenyang Project Agreement); (c) the Project Agreement, of even date with 
the Loan Agreement, between the Bank and Bank of Communications Limited (BOCOM) and 
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) (the Financial Intermediaries Project 
Agreement); and (d) the Project Agreement, of even date with the Loan Agreement, 
between the Bank and the Shenyang Machine Tool Company Limited (SMTCL) (the SMTCL 
Project Agreement).  I also refer to the letter dated April 18, 2000 from Mr. Wu Gang, 
Deputy Director General, International Department, Ministry of Finance, on behalf of 
the Borrower, requesting amendments to the Loan Agreement, the Shenyang Project 
Agreement, the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement and the SMTCL Project 
Agreement in order to, among other things, permit the financing under the Loan 
Agreement of certain expenditures under the SMTCL Labor Reduction Plan (as defined in 
the Loan Agreement).
2.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs with the Borrower’s  proposal 
and hereby agrees to amend the Shenyang Project Agreement as hereinafter provided.
3.
Section 2.02.  Subparagraph (a) of Section 2.02 is amended to read as follows:
“(a)
 Shenyang shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to 
Categories (2)(b), (3) and (4)(b) to SMTCL under a subsidiary loan 
agreement whose terms and  conditions shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall 
include: (i) interest at a rate 
not less than the sum of (A) the rate applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to 
Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement, plus (B) 
at least one and two-tenths of one percent 
(1.2%); (ii) repayment over a 
period not to exceed fifteen years including five years of 
grace; and (iii) a 
commitment charge payable at a rate equal to the commitment charge 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan 
Agreement; and 
(iv) foreign exchange risk between the dollar and Renminbi to be 
borne by SMTCL.” 
4.
Schedule 1 to the Shenyang Project Agreement is amended to read as set forth in 
the attachment to this letter. 
5.
Please confirm the agreement of Shenyang Municipality to the amendments set 
forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form 
of confirmation set forth below, and returning one fully signed original of this 
amendment letter to us.  One fully signed original should be retained by Shenyang 
Municipality.  
6.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Shenyang 
Project Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Bank of: (a) 
the copy of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized 
representative of Shenyang Municipality; (b) the copy of the letter of amendment from 
the Bank to the Borrower concerning amendments to the Loan Agreement (the Loan 
Agreement amendment), duly countersigned by the authorized representative of the 
Borrower; (c) the copy of the letter of amendment from the Bank to BOCOM and ICBC 
concerning amendments to the Financial Intermediaries Project Agreement (the Financial 
Page  2
Intermediaries Project Agreement amendment), duly countersigned by the authorized 
representatives of BOCOM and ICBC; and (d) the copy of the letter of amendment from 
the Bank to SMCTL concerning amendments to the SMTCL Project Agreement (the SMTCL 
Project Agreement amendment), duly countersigned by the authorized representative of 
SMTCL, the above amendments shall become effective as of the date of countersignature 
of the Loan Agreement amendment.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Country Director, China 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Jiang Xianzhi
Authorized Representative
Date: 
Attachment to Letter of Amendment 
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Page  3
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Goods required for Part C of the Project which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods required for Parts A and C of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Part B above and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.1 above, and each contract for works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Part C.2 and C.3 above and estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  4
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines] shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  5
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
