DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 3788 CHA
Shenyang
Project Agreement
(Shenyang Industrial Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHENYANG MUNICIPALITY
Dated        V       //        , 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3788 CHA
SHENYANG PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               , 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANDID   LOPMENT (the Bank) and SHENYANG
MUNICIPALITY (Shenyang).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy-five million dollars
($175,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that Shenyang agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement,
that the . Financial Intermediaries agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in the Financial
Intermediaries Project Agreement, and that SMTCL agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in the SMTCL
Project Agreement;
WHEREAS Shenyang, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Shenyang declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.and C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and industrial


﻿-2-
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and Shenyang shall otherwise
agree, Shenyang shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Shenyang shall relend the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (2) (b) and (3) (b) to
SMTCL under a subsidiary loan agreement whose terms and conditions
shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall include:
(i) interest at a rate not less than the sum of (A) the rate
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of
the Loan Agreement, plus (B) at least one and two--tenths of one per
cent (1.2%); (ii) repayment over a period not to exceed fifteen
years, including five years of grace; (iii) a commitment charge
payable at a rate equal to the commitment charge applicable from
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan
Agreement; and (iv) foreign exchange risk between the dollar and
Renminbi to be borne by SMTCL.
(b) Shenyang shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Category (1) to BOCOM and ICBC under a
subsidiary loan agreement with each of BOCOM and ICBC, whose terms
and conditions shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall
include: (i) interest at a rate equal to the rate applicable from
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan
Agreement; (ii) repayment over a period not to exceed twenty years,
including five years of grace; (iii) a commitment charge payable at
a rate equal to the commitment charge applicable from time to time
to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan agreement; and
(iv) foreign exchange risk between the dollar and Renminbi to be
borne by BOCOM and ICBC, respectively.
(c) Shenyang shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Bank and Shenyang and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Shenyang shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods -and consultants' services required for


﻿- 3 -
Parts A and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Shenyang shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Shenyang Project
Agreement and Parts A and C of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Shenyang shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(b) Shenyang shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the
performance by Shenyang of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shenyang shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A and C of the Project of the
departments or agencies of Shenyang responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) Shenyang shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end


﻿-4-
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank    such other   information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Shenyang thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify Shenyang thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafteL specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:


﻿For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD              248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TR,T)
For Shenyang:
Shenyang Municipal Finance Bureau
No. 78, Beiyijing Street, Shenhe District
Shenyang 110014
People's Republic of China
Telex:
80040 SYFAO CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Shenyang may be taken or executed by the Vice
Mayor responsible for or such other person or persons as said Vice
Mayor shall designate in writing, and Shenyang shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SHENYANG MUNICIPALITY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred
to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased. for each week of
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank,
one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other
to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)'In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, Shenyang shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank,
Shenyang shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 8 -
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Limited International Bidding
1.    Goods required for Part C of the Project which the Bank agrees
are supplied through a limited number of suppliers and which are
estimated to cost an amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,400,000 in the aggregate, maybe procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance
with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, and 2.56 thereof).
Local Shopping
2.    Goods required for Parts A and C of the Project, estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $5,200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Direct Contracting
3.    Goods which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary nature may be
awarded after negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to (i) each contract to be procured in
accordance with Part A hereof estimated to cost the equivalent of
$ 1,000,000 or more and (ii) each contract to be procured under Part
C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making


﻿-9-
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to. said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Em1loyment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist Shenyang in carrying out Parts A and C of
the Project, Shenyang shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines") .    For
complex, time-based assignments, Shenyang shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, Shenyang shall use
other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or
(b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost
less than $50,000 or equivalent each. However, said exceptions to


﻿- 10 -
prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms,
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent
or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A:     Support for the Reform Action Program
1.    Shenyang shall exchange views with the Bank, at least
annually, on the progress in the implementation of the Reform Action
Program.
2.    Shenyang shall: (a) carry out the training under Part A of the
Project in accordance with a training program satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) carry out Parts A.2, A.4, and A.5 of the Project in
accordance with a time-bound action plan satisfactory to the Bank;
and (c) furnish to the Bank for review by October 15 in each year an
annual work program under Part A of the Project for the next
calendar year.
Part B:     Environmental Protection
1.    Shenyang shall: (a) carry out Part C.1 of the Project through
its environmental protection bureau; and (b) promptly upon
completion of the hazardous waste treatment facility under said Part
C.1, transfer operational responsibility thereof to the Solid Waste
Collection and Disposal agency of Shenyang Municipality.
2.    Under Part C.2 of the Project, Shenyang shall: (a) prepare and
furnish to the Bank for comments not later than December 31, 1995,
recommendations for a structure and levels of tariffs designed to
recover the costs of collection, treatment and disposal of hazardous
wastes; (b) thereafter, on the basis of said recommendations but in
any event not later than January 1, 1998, establish a structure and
levels of tariffs and commence imposing and collecting such tariffs,
taking into account the Bank's comments on said recommendations; and
(c) exchange views with the Bank from time to time on the structure
and levels of such tariffs, taking into account changing price
levels, and revise such tariffs on the basis of such exchanges of
views.
3.      Shenyang shall:  (a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, not
later than December 31, 1995, for the Bank's comments, draft
municipal hazardous waste management regulations; and (b) by June
30, 1996, promulgate and thereafter, implement, such regulations,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.


﻿- 12 -
4.    Shenyang shall carry out the training under Part C of the
Project in accordance with a training program satisfactory to the
Bank.
Part C:     Overall Project Implementation
Shenyang shall maintain: (a) a project leading group to be
responsible for providing policy guidance under the Project, with
composition and functions acceptable to the Bank; and (b) the
project management office, with competent staff in adequate numbers,
and functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


