Report No. PIC3051
Project Name                          West Bank and Gaza- (@+) ...
Electricity Sector
Investment and Management Project
Region                                Middle East and North Africa
Sector                                Electric Power and Other Energy
Project ID                            GZSF40506
Borrower                              PLO for the benefit of the
Palestinian Authority;
On-lent to existing and newly
created distribution utilities
in the West Bank
Implementing Agency                   Palestinian Energy Authority (PEA)
Contact: Dr. Abdel Rahman Hamad
Chairman, PEA
Tel : 972-7-824-849
Fax : 972-2-998-6191 or 972-7-824-849
Pid date                              February 28, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date              May, 1997
Projected Board Date                  September, 1997
1.      Background. Municipalities have historically been the major
providers of public utility services in the West Bank and Gaza. In
the power sector, electricity distribution is currently the
responsibility of municipal departments and village councils,
except for the area served by the Jerusalem District Electric
Company (JDECo)--a shareholder-owned utility. In Gaza (population
of about 840,000) municipalities buy electricity from the Israeli
Electric Company (IEC). In the West Bank (population of 1,830,000),
there are 252 communities--110 take wholesale supplies from IEC for
resale at distribution (22 kV) voltage; 67 have a partial supply
from generation owned by the village; 75 have no formal electricity
supply.
2.      Municipalities are confronting a host of serious managerial
and financial challenges. Problems noted in the diagnostic review
of a recent consultant study include below norm voltage, overloaded
substations and distribution transformers, substations in poor
condition, unbalanced loads in the feeders, inadequate compensative
capacity to correct for low power factors (such that power-factor
penalties are being imposed by IEC), insufficient transformers to
provide acceptable voltages, non-functioning on-load transformer-
tap changes, excessive low-voltage circuit lengths, damaged
insulators, and exposed cables often showing considerable damage to
their outer covering. Technical power losses, together with non-
technical losses, are at 30 to 35 percent. The system is so
technically deficient that actions must be taken quickly to ensure
that it will not collapse.



3.      The power sector also exhibits significant institutional
weaknesses. Considerable economies of scale and service quality
improvement could be reasonably captured by the consolidation of
the disparate municipal systems. Tariff collection has been
problematic in the aftermath of the Intifada, although significant
progress has recently been made. Even so, the resale of electricity
remains a revenue-generating enterprise, and municipalities would,
therefore, require some form of compensation or profit-sharing to
change their ways. The structure of rates is also inadequate,
having no time-of-day element, power element, power factor penalty,
or life-line tariff block for low-consumption and low-income
consumers.
4.      Project Objectives. The purpose of this project is: (i) to
rehabilitate and reinforce the power distribution network; and (ii)
to create an efficient electricity distribution system in the West
Bank, notably through the establishment of two private-sector led
Service Improvement Programs (management contracts) in the northern
and southern West Bank. These objectives are in accordance with
government policy as is currently being defined in a formal
Statement of Power Sector Development Policy.
5.      Project Description. The proposed operation is comprised of
three components:
a       Emergency rehabilitation of electric utility distribution
facilities in the West Bank. This component of approximately US$100
million would include the work necessary to regain the bulk of the
capacity and reliability of the existing infrastructure.
Implementation and associated professional project management
services (and training of Palestinian counterparts) would be the
responsibility of a special Project Management team in the central
region of the West Bank, and of the recruited private sector
operators in the northern and southern utilities. Rehabilitation
would occur over a period of 2-3 years.
a       Creation of Distribution Utilities and Service Improvement
Program. This component would help to put in place two private
performance-based management contracts to assist in the formation
and subsequent operation of the planned new utilities in the
northern and southern West Bank. While the terms of the contract
have yet to be worked out in detail, the funding required for this
project component is tentatively estimated at about US$12-15
million (including project management costs for emergency
rehabilitation in the North and South).
a       Technical assistance (TA) for institutional strengthening.
The project would fund technical assistance to help the Palestinian
Authority organize the sector into regional distribution utilities;
prepare bidding documents for the service improvement (management)
contracts; draft concession and other legal agreements; value the
assets of the existing municipal power systems; prepare technical
and safety standards for the sector; and determine an electricity
pricing system for the West Bank and Gaza. Laws and regulations
affecting the power and energy sectors would also be reviewed and
-2 -



reforms suggested as part of the institutional reform consultancy.
The TA component would also include the required engineering
consultancies to further advance the pre-feasibility studies for
the transmission and distribution expansion programs. The
technical assistance component would cost about US$3 million.
6.      Tentative Project Cost and Financing. Total project costs are
estimated at about US$115 million. It is envisaged that the larger
part of the required funding would be provided by bilateral and
other donors. The Bank's contribution will be in the order of US$15
million, to be provided in the form of an IDA credit, and with a
likely focus on the institutional aspects of the project. Potential
co-financiers that have expressed an interest in the project
include the Arab Fund, the European Investment Bank, Finland,
Norway, and possibly Italy and the IFC.
7.      Rationale for Bank Involvement. A reliable power supply is a
necessity for private sector-based economic activity and improving
the quality of life in the West Bank. In view of the large public
investment needs of the power sector (at least US$600 million over
the decade ahead, excluding generation) an effective partnership
among the PA, donors, multilateral institutions and the private
sector will be required if sector development goals are to be
achieved. Publicly funded investment needs to proceed in parallel
with the development of an institutional framework. The Bank has a
comparative advantage in assisting the Palestinians in the
development of a strong institutional framework to promote and
accelerate private sector involvement.
8.      Project Implementation. The proposed operation encompasses a
labor intensive exercise to implement the emergency rehabilitation
component, and to meet the emergency recovery target, it would
require the disbursement of substantial sums of money over a
relatively short period of time. It is envisaged that a single
project management (PM) unit be created for rehabilitation work in
the central part of the West Bank. The objectives of the PM team
would be to ensure uniformity of construction standards, minimize
operating costs and maximizes benefits, use specialists for project
appraisals, negotiate contracts with bidders, provide contract
clarifications, testing, design approvals and monitor cost control,
commissioning etc. The PM also would ensure interface with the
financiers/donors of the project.
9.      For rehabilitation work in the Northern and Southern parts of
the West Bank, responsibility for the Project Management function
would be given to the contractors of the Service Improvement
Programs. Performance evaluation criteria with respect to
rehabilitation works would be developed and become part of the
Programs.
10.     Environmental Aspects. The environmental impact of the
construction of the rehabilitation of the distribution system has
been reviewed by the PEA and their consultants and judged to be
manageable. The project has been placed in environmental screening
Category B. See attached Annex on environmental aspects.
-3 -



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 11, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The main part of the proposed project concerns the upgrade of
existing 33 kV and lower voltage facilities. There are no works
associated with power stations or transmission lines. The
distribution substations included in the project are within
existing locations in urban areas and should have minimal effect on
vegetation. However, it is possible that some old distribution
transformers contain toxic PCB. The project will assure that
wherever work affects equipment with substances considered
environmentally unacceptable according to current standards, these
would be removed and properly disposed of. Overall, the project
should have a positive impact on the environment by increasing
safety and reducing line losses (which will reduce environmental
impact at power generation point).
During project appraisal, an Environmental Analysis will be carried
out in order to confirm that the proposed rehabilitation work is in
line with adequate standards and that it does not have an adverse
impact on the environment. The credit agreement will include
appropriate measures to mitigate eventual adverse effects, in line
with the recommendations of the Environmental Analysis.
- 5 -



