                      Document of
                   The World Bank



                                              Report No: ICR0000354




 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (MULT-26092)




                         ON A

                TRUST FUND CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.0 MILLION

                        TO THE

                WEST BANK & GAZA

                        FOR AN

ELECTRIC SECTOR INVESTMENT & MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                     June 27, 2007



                Sustainable Development
           Middle East and North Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective 05/31/2006 )
                                 Currency Unit = NIS
                                     NIS 1.00 = US$ 0.22
                                     US$ 1.00 = NIS 4.52


                                        Fiscal Year
                                  January 1 to December 31




                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EIB     European Investment Bank
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
ESIMP   Electric Sector Investment and Management Project
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
GIS/NIS Geographic Information System / National Information System
HEPCO Hebron Electric Power Company
IEC     Israel Electric Corporation
JDECO Jerusalem District Electricity Company Ltd.
MIS     Management Information System
NPV     Net Present Value
PA      Palestinian Authority
PEA     Palestinian Energy Authority
PLC     Palestinian Legislative Council
SCADA Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SELCO Southern Electric Power Company
SSDP Statement of Sector Development Policy




                               Vice President: Daniela Gressani

                             Country Director: A. David Craig

                              Sector Manager: Jonathan D. Walters

                         Project Team Leader: Somin Mukherji

                               WEST BANK AND GAZA
               Electric Sector Investment & Management Project




                                            CONTENTS




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 5
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 9
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 9
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 11
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 11
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 14
Annex 2: Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 15
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 17
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 19
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 21
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 22
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 23
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 31
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 33
MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                          GZ-ELEC.SEC.INV.&
Country:                  WEST BANK& GAZA          Project Name:
                                                                          MGMT
Project ID:               P040506                  L/C/TF Number(s):      MULT-26092
ICR Date:                 04/19/2007               ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                          PLO/PALESTINIAN
Lending Instrument:       SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                          AUTHORITY
Original Total
                          USD 15.0M                Disbursed Amount:      USD 14.96M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Southern Electric Company (SELCo)
Hebron Electric Power Company (HEPCo)
Jerusalem District Electricity Company (JDECo)
Palestinian Energy Authority (PEA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

      Process                Date              Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:           12/12/1995     Effectiveness:          03/30/2000         03/30/2000
Appraisal:                10/05/1997     Restructuring(s):
Approval:                 08/31/1999     Mid-term Review:                           08/02/2003
                                         Closing:                06/30/2004         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       High
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                     Ratings                 Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory            Government:             Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                   Agency/Agencies:        Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
Performance:               Satisfactory            Performance:            Satisfactory




                                                  1

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                  QAG Assessments (if
        Performance                 Indicators                any)                      Rating

Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                              No                                              Not done
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
Problem Project at any time No                       Quality of Supervision
                                                                             Satisfactory
(Yes/No):                                            (QSA):
DO rating before              Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:      Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      10                    10
Power                                                                  90                    90


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 Primary              Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                        Secondary            Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                                    Secondary            Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                    Secondary            Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                  Primary              Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:               Daniela Gressani                     Kemal Dervis
Country Director:             A. David Craig                       Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:               Jonathan D. Walters                  Jean-Claude Villiard
Project Team Leader:          Somin Mukherji                       Rama L. Skelton
ICR Team Leader:              Somin Mukherji
ICR Primary Author:           Margaret Wilson

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objective of the Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP) as stated
in the PAD was to benefit electricity consumers, predominantly households, through sustainable
improvements in the quality of electricity supply. The objective was to be achieved through fundamental
power sector institutional reforms (the policy components), implemented in parallel with reinforcement of
the power system (the physical components). In particular, the project was to:



                                                    2

  (a) Initiate restructuring of the power sector in accordance with the Palestinian Authority's (PA's)
Statement of Power Sector Development Policy. This included the corporatization and commercialization
of two new entities: the Hebron Electric Power Company (HEPCo) and the Southern Electric Company
(SELCo)--the latter taking over the electric utility operations of five small municipalities in the southern
regions of the West Bank;
  (b) Strengthen the Palestinian Energy Authority's (PEA's) capacity to put in place power sector reforms
and sector environmental regulations, and to establish an overall institutional basis--building on
international best practices--for the sustainable operation of the power sector and the safeguarding of
consumer interests; and
  (c) Reinforce the power system in the central and southern regions of the West Bank (areas A and B
only), as the first step in the least-cost power system expansion plan aimed at the efficient and reliable
provision of electricity.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The PDOs were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                                   Original Target      Formally Actual Value

           Indicator             Baseline Value      Values (from        Revised    Achieved at
                                                       approval          Target   Completion or
                                                      documents)         Values    Target Years
Indicator 1                     Improve system capacity to meet electricity demand
                                Distribution    No suppressed
                                capacity        demand by end of                  Distribution
Value                                           project
                                projected to be                                   capacity
(quantitative or                                                          NA
                                approximately                                     exceeded 1,400
qualitative)
                                600 GWh per                                       GWh
                                year by 2006
Date achieved                   11/01/1999      06/30/2004                        12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator 2 :                   Appropriate legal and regulatory framework in place for the sector
                                                                                  Draft law and
                                                                                  regulatory
                                                 Completion of                    procedures
                                                 institutional studies            completed.
                                                 that lead to the                 Law submitted
Value
                                                 passage of the new               to Legislative
(quantitative or                                                                  Council but not
                                                 electricity law, as
qualitative)                                                                      yet adopted
                                                 well as articles of              HEPCo and
                                                 association for                  SELCo began
                                                 SELCo and HEPCo                  commercial
                                                                                  operations in
                                                                                  2003
Date achieved                   11/01/1999       06/30/2004                       12/31/2006


                                                      3

                            The new government elected in January 2006 returned the draft
Comments
                            law to the PEA with requests for clarification. To date, it has not
(incl. % achievement)
                            been adopted by the Legislative Council.
                            Implementation of environmental policy guidelines and
Indicator 3 :
                            regulations.
                                                                                 Draft
                                                                                guidelines and
                                              Environmental                     regulations
Value
                                              policy guidelines are             have been
(quantitative or                  NA
                                              followed on a regular             prepared and
qualitative)
                                              basis                             incorporated
                                                                                into draft
                                                                                Electricity Law
Date achieved               11/01/1999        06/30/2004                         12/31/2006
                            The new government elected in January 2006 returned the draft
Comments
                            law to the PEA with requests for clarification. To date, it has not
(incl. % achievement)
                            been adopted by the Legislative Council

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                    Original Target        Formally          Actual Value

     Indicator     Baseline Value    Values (from                             Achieved at
                                       approval         Revised Target   Completion or Target
                                      documents)             Values              Years
                  Higher efficiency in electricity distribution, and improved quality of service
Indicator 1 :
                  in measuring reduced technical and non-technical losses
                                                                         HEPCo losses reduced
                                                                        by 2.4% over duration
                  Technical        Technical and
Value                                                                   of project; JDECo
                  losses: 20%      non-technical
(quantitative or                                                        technical losses
                  Non-technical    losses reduced by
qualitative)                                                            decreased by 2% but
                  losses: 20%      2-3%/year
                                                                        non-technical losses
                                                                        increased by 3%.
Date achieved     11/01/1999                                            12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                  Higher efficiency in electricity distribution, and improved quality of service

Indicator 2 :     in measuring customer/employee ratio

Value
(quantitative or  <200                   >200                               >200
qualitative)


                                                   4

Date achieved      11/01/1999             06/30/2004                         12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Higher efficiency in electricity distribution, and improved quality of service
Indicator 3 :
                   in measuring voltage fluctuation and number and duration of power outages
                                          Voltage fluctuation:               Voltage fluctuation:
Value
                                          <+/- 12% number &                 <+/- 10% number &
(quantitative or
                                          duration of outages               duration of outages
qualitative)
                                          reduced by 50%                    reduced by 75%
Date achieved      11/01/1999             06/30/2004                         12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


 No.       Date ISR                                                             Actual Disbursements
           Archived               DO                             IP                     (USD M)
1      11/01/1999        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                                0.00
2      11/12/1999        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                                0.00
3      05/11/2000        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                                0.00
4      09/13/2000        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                                2.56
5      03/13/2001        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                                3.16
6      09/28/2001        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                                5.05
7      03/18/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                                7.09
8      08/15/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                                8.45
9      12/06/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                                9.42
10     04/15/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                                9.92
11     10/24/2003        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                               10.76
12     03/24/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                               11.23
13     08/04/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                               12.06
14     03/30/2005        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                               13.15
15     11/28/2005        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                               14.16
16     06/30/2006      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                       14.80
17     12/20/2006      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                       14.89




                                                    5

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                             6

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


At the time of project appraisal, the World Bank assistance strategy for West Bank/Gaza (WBG)
                                                                                    1

highlighted the infrastructure gap, including inadequate power supply, as one of the key constraints to
economic growth in the region, and called for the restoration of infrastructure, strengthening of
institutions, and facilitation of private sector involvement in the economy. Key issues in the power
sector at that time were identified as follows:

    ·         A weak institutional framework, with most electric utility services provided by
              municipalities operating under a complicated and conflicting overlay of authorizing
              legislation;
    ·         A poorly defined regulatory environment, leading to unclear objectives, sub-optimal
              performance, and inappropriate PA intervention in the sector;
    ·         Poorly designed tariffs, which failed to respond to market signals and provided inadequate
              incentives for efficient energy use;
    ·         Rising electricity demand, with load expected to increase by about 6 percent a year over the
              period 1995-2005; and
    ·         Underinvestment in the sector leading to a pressing need for rehabilitation and expansion of
              the power system. In WBG, almost 20 percent of system demand (some 55 MW) was not
              being met due to lack of capacity, and voltage fluctuations were severe.



1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The development objective of the project as stated in the PAD was to benefit electricity consumers,
predominantly households, through sustainable improvements in the quality of electricity supply. This
objective was to be achieved through fundamental power sector institutional reforms, implemented in
parallel with reinforcement of the power system. In particular, the project was to:

    (a)       Initiate restructuring of the power sector in accordance with the Palestinian Authority's (PA's)
              Statement of Sector Development Policy and Action Program ("SSDP") issued by the
              President of the PA and the Chairman of PEA in 1997;

    (b)       Strengthen the Palestinian Energy Authority's (PEA's) capacity to put in place power sector
              reforms and sector environmental regulations, and establish an overall institutional basis--
              building on international best practices -for the sustainable operation of the power sector and
              the safeguarding of consumer interests; and

    (c)       Reinforce the power system in the central and southern regions of the West Bank (areas A
              and B only), as the first step in the least-cost power system expansion plan aimed at the
              efficient and reliable provision of electricity.




1Presented in the paper entitled "A World Bank Group Strategy for the West Bank and Gaza," considered by the Board on May
28, 1998.



                                                            1

Key project monitoring indicators (summarized from the PAD, Annex 1) were as follows:

    ·        Power sector reforms including passage of Electricity Law and regulatory framework (policy
             and guidelines) in place by end of project;
    ·        Formulation and application of environmental policy guidelines and regulations;
    ·        Higher efficiency in electricity distribution, measured by: (i) reduced technical and non-
             technical losses, (ii) improved customer/employee ratio; and
    ·        Improved quality of service, indicated by reductions in voltage fluctuation and the number
             and duration of power outages.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Not applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The ultimate project beneficiaries were Palestinian electricity consumers in the region who would benefit
from improved services as a result of the Project's support to the Palestinian Energy Authority to improve
the legal and regulatory framework for the sector, and it's support to three local distribution companies;
Jerusalem District Electric Company (JDECo), Hebron Electric Power Company (HEPCo), and Southern
Electric Company (SELCo). The latter two companies were operated as departments of municipalities at
the time of appraisal and their corporatization was a prior condition of disbursements on project components
supporting their operations.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

There are three main components:

Component 1: Rehabilitation and upgrading of electric utility distribution facilities in the central West
      Bank and the Hebron governorate (through the establishment of two new entities, the Hebron
      Electric Power Company (HEPCo), and Southern Electric Company (SELCo)) and implementation
      of a distribution dispatching center for the Jerusalem District Electric Company (JDECo). Total
      cost for this component was estimated at US$76.3 million, of which the allocated Bank financing
      was US$5.2 million.

Component 2: Financing of a management contract and other technical assistance to strengthen sector
      institutions, comprising four sub-components, including:

    (i)      the three-year cost (fixed fees and performance incentive) of a performance-based
             management contract for SELCo;
    (ii)     technical assistance to JDECo in areas where its own capacity has potential for improvement;
    (iii)    technical assistance to help the municipality of Hebron corporatize and commercialize its
             electric utility operations; and
    (iv)     technical assistance to the Palestinian Energy Authority to implement the actions specified in
             the PA's SSDP.

Total cost estimate for this component was estimated at US$12.2 million, of which the allocated Bank
financing was US$7.3 million.




                                                      2

Component 3: Funding the initial startup and operating expenditures, and helping to strengthen both the
Hebron and Southern electric companies' capacities to operate as financially sound and technically
capable power distribution companies. Total cost was estimated at US$2.5 million, which was to be fully
financed by the Bank.

1.6 Revised Components

Components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were significant difficulties encountered in the implementation of Component 1 and Component 2
(i), which led to changes in scope and design as follows:

a)        The scope of Component 1 was curtailed during implementation owing to problems with two of
the cofinancing agencies that were financing rehabilitation of the distribution networks. One of these
cofinanciers, the European Investment Bank (EIB) suspended disbursements to the WBG in 2002 as a
result of the PA's failure to meet repayment obligations on previous loans. This significantly reduced the
funding available to JDECo for system improvements (all of the expected US$38.0 million from EIB was
due to be received by JDECo, but only US$12.0 million had been disbursed at the time of suspension).
Government of Italy was the other of these cofinanciers, and the availability of its planned funding of
US$33.0 million at appraisal for network rehabilitation investments for the distribution utilities was
delayed by an assortment of procurement issues. As a result, while about 26% of contracts for the supply
of materials under Italian funding to JDECo were completed, only two of the three SELCo packages have
been contracted, and delivery is not yet complete. At the time of project closing, the third package was
awaiting clearance from Rome of the selected bidder. For the procurement of materials for HEPCo,
contracts have not been finalized and it is not clear when the planned physical component of the Project
will be completed. Currently, the Italian government has suspended the procurement process on the
grounds that the legal status of HEPCo is unclear2. JDECo was able to provide US$14.2 million from its
own funds (they were expected to provide only US$0.5 million of self-financing for distribution
rehabilitation) to partially compensate for the loss of US$26.0 million from EIB and the procurement
delays of Italian financing of about US$6.0 million that was allocated to JDECo. This amount (US$14.2
million) that JDECo was able to finance from its own resources and the amount that was financed by the
Bank (US$1.765 million) was sufficient to implement the main components (substation improvements,
SCADA etc.). HEPCo and SELCo were only able to contribute about US$3.5 million and US$1.5
million respectively when confronted by the protracted delay of US$24.65 million in Italian financing
(US$11.05 million for HEPCo and US$13.6 million for SELCo), and so most of their planned network
reinforcements under the project ­ which were to be financed almost entirely by the Italians ­ are yet to
be implemented.

(b)       Component 2(i) was intended to finance a performance-based management contract for the
operation of SELCo. However, the newly-established company and the Bank were unable to agree on the
terms and scope of the contract. As a result, more than 20 months after the initial approval of the Credit
there had been no disbursement on the SELCo component of the project. In order to allow this
component to move forward, and at the same time mitigate risks associated with SELCo's implementation
capacities, it was agreed that a consulting firm would be engaged to provide technical assistance on


2In late 2005, the local municipality liquidated the minority shareholdings in the utility, bringing it back under the sole
ownership of the municipality, and began issuing invoices in the name of the municipality. At the same time, however, HEPCo
continues to hold the bank accounts and audit reports continue to be prepared for the company



                                                                3

matters relating to design and implementation of the project. The consultant was engaged in July, 2002
and provided training and technical support throughout the duration of the project.

The Project's Closing Date was also extended three times for a total of 30 months due to the many delays
caused by the Intifada (difficulties in moving consultants, utilities staff and materials into and within the
region) and complications in the Italian cofinancing described above.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Project was not subject to a QAG review or rating at entry. The ICR rating for Quality at Entry is
Satisfactory, based on the following factors:

     (i)     the close link between the project's objectives and the Country Assistance Strategy;

     (ii)    the consistency of the project design with both the development objectives and with best
             practices in terms of promoting power sector efficiency;

     (iii)   the strong external indicators that the project was both timely and supportive of government
             priorities in terms of fostering economic growth in the region, as indicated by the
             Memorandum of Understanding among PEA, NORAD, and the Bank on cooperation in the
             development of the power sector signed on June 26, 1997, and the participation of other
             donor agencies;

     (iv)    the focus on establishing a legal and regulatory framework for sustainable sector
             development which Government requested Bank assistance to put in place, and the fact that
             the PEA was closely involved in the project definition and supported the concept and actions
             in a Statement of Sector Development Policy; and

     (v)     the measures taken to ensure that adequate procedures and funding were in place to mitigate
             potential adverse environmental impacts.

The project design was relevant to the needs. Two risks were significantly underestimated at the time of
preparation and entry ­ the risk of renewed hostilities, and the breakdown of cofinancing arrangements
for a significant part of the network rehabilitation components as described in Section 1.7 above.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation of the Project required considerable flexibility on the part of both the Borrowers and the
Bank. The Bank agreed to SELCo's request to waive the requirement for a management contract,
accepting instead a program of targeted technical assistance. JDECo increased its contribution to project
financing in response to the suspension of EIB financing. Persistence in relations with the Italian
cofinanciers contributed to the ultimate partial completion of components for SELCo designated for
Italian cofinancing.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E indicators were appropriate to the monitoring of progress and achievements. During the early
years of the Project, however, delays in the implementation of the HEPCo and SELCo components made
it impossible to establish baselines and monitor progress with respect to some of the monitoring indicators.


                                                       4

In addition, there were delays throughout in monitoring the financial performance indicators for SELCo
due to delays in finalizing audited financial statements while agreement was sought among the company's
shareholders with regard to the value of fixed assets. Nonetheless, by project completion, data on
virtually all indicators had been gathered and evaluated. One of the monitoring indicators for JDECo -
the measurement of customers per employee - however, proved misleading under the circumstances,
because the outbreak of hostilities led to a significant increase in non-payments among the utility's
customers. As a result, JDECo was obliged to significantly increase its staffing (from 494 in 1999 to 563
in 2002) in order to manage non-payments and ensure an adequate cash flow.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Project financial management, procurement and disbursement were all managed in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. Only the Environmental safeguard (OP4.01) was triggered by the project and the Project was
rated as Category B. An acceptable Environmental Management Plan was formulated and satisfactorily
implemented to address adverse impacts during construction.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Operation of the investments will be handled by the beneficiary utilities. JDECo has a long experience of
successful commercial operations.                The two new beneficiary utilities (HEPCo and SELCo) are
corporatized, and extensive training has been provided under the project.

Continued sustainability of operations and the reforms successfully undertaken to date will depend mainly
on the following factors:

     (i)      The uncertainty about the operations of the power networks and billing and collections by the
              electricity supply corporations under the uncertain political and economic situation in the
              Region;

     (ii)     The continuation of interventions in the operations and finances of the new electricity supply
              corporations by the municipalities that are the main shareholders in HEPCo and SELCo
              following the transfer of their electricity businesses to these utilities; and

     (iii)    The policies of the PA regarding the management and regulation of utilities, which are
              needed to ensure that the utilities have the incentive to pay fully and promptly for their
              purchases of bulk power from the Israel Electric Corporation, instead of following the
              practice of the municipalities in leaving IEC to seek payment from deductions in PA's
              clearance revenues.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The development objectives were clearly articulated and in line with the World Bank assistance strategy,
and the strategy of the PA at the time that was set out in the PA's SSDP.3 The design of the three project


3The key policy objectives for the power sector included rehabilitation of existing networks and services and extension of services
to currently unserved communities; separation of regulatory from commercial functions; encouragement of private participation
in sector operations and development; improving the operating efficiency of distribution utilities; and setting pragmatic tariffs
that would promote the commercial viability of sector enterprises while providing lifeline rates for needy consumers.



                                                                5

components for achieving the Project Development Objective was consistent with sectoral best practices
for achieving sustainable and cost-effective electricity supply through the participation of commercialized
utilities within a legal and regulatory framework that protects consumers' interests. The Bank provided
financing for technical assistance to support institutional strengthening, the development of the legal and
regulatory framework, and implementation of the physical works by HEPCo and SELCo, while the
Government of Italy and the EIB committed co-financing to acquire the materials and equipment needed
to rehabilitate the distribution networks in the region. JDECo was an established licensee with the
financial and institutional capacity to implement their investment components. Concerns about the
capacity of HEPCo and SELCo to implement the physical works were to be addressed through technical
assistance under components 2 and 3.

The project was prepared and approved in 1997 ­ 1999 during ongoing peace talks between the Israeli
and Palestinian authorities which held promise for Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank and Gaza
territories and the establishment of a Palestinian state. The project's overall objective of sustainable
improvements in electricity supply was both realistic and supportive of nation-building efforts.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

By project closing, substantial progress has been made on the PDOs for institutional development and on
fundamental power sector policy reforms. These institutional PDOs focus on broad objectives, namely:
(i) Initiate restructuring of the power sector in accordance the PA's SSDP; and (ii) Strengthen the PEA's
capacity to put in place power sector reforms and sector environmental regulations, and establish an
overall institutional basis for the sustainable operation of the power sector and the safeguarding of
consumer interests.

The PA has made creditworthy progress by achieving most of its sector reform objectives as defined in its
SSDP (which was issued during the time that the project was under preparation). The PA have either
implemented most of the components of this strategy ­ such as the commissioning of a privately
developed power plant in Gaza and the formation of distribution companies ­ or have progressed
substantially - such as extending electricity services to unserved communities, developing pragmatic tariff
setting guidelines, and separating the policy and regulatory functions in PEA from the commercial
functions of the power sector in the distribution utilities.

The project helped considerably with institutional restructuring by the formation of the two new
distribution utilities - HEPCo and SELCo. The legal status of HEPCo has been challenged, but it has
continued to function as a utility, albeit on a fledgling basis. The achievements of the distribution utilities
are reasonably well-reflected in the PDO and intermediate outcome indicators, although the economic
crisis that erupted at the start of 2006 has prevented further improvements in customer payments
discipline.

There are two main outstanding components of the PA's institutional development strategy:

     (i)      Consolidation of networks and functions into a transmission company - which PEA has
              justifiably not implemented yet because the network is not yet configured or operated in a
              way that requires high-voltage transmission in the West Bank, and in Gaza there will be only
              one transmission line (which would not justify a separate transmission company); and

     (ii)     The establishment of an independent regulatory agency under an Electricity Law. The
              absence of an Electricity Law, however, has neither impeded sector reform - as described
              above ­ nor indicated reluctance by the PA to implement reforms and upgrade regulatory
              capacity. Experience with power sector reform among developing countries since the project
              was prepared indicates that the establishment of an independent regulatory agency is not a
              priority at the WBG power sector's current stage of development, especially since
              privatization of the utilities is not considered to be practicable at this stage. However, PEA


                                                        6

              did commission international consultants during project implementation to prepare an
              Electricity Law which reflects the government's stated policies with respect to sector
              restructuring and reform.     While the draft law has been submitted to the Palestinian
              Legislative Council, its review and adoption have been delayed by changes in government.
              When the new Council took power; the Council members sent the draft Law back to the
              Palestinian Energy Authority for review and clarification. This does not necessarily signal a
              problem with the principles of the legislation, since the new government was immediately
              beset with a number of pressing problems. PEA had indicated that it expects that its adoption
              is merely delayed. All of the legal documentation and by-laws for the proposed Regulatory
              Agency have been completed. Once the Electricity Law is adopted, it is expected that the
              regulatory body can become operational within a few months. The PEA has, however,
              gained regulatory expertise and experience as the de facto regulator of the electricity sector.

On institutional strengthening, distribution companies in the southern part of West Bank have been
converted from municipal departments to corporate entities, with smaller supply operations (five
municipalities were involved in the formation of SELCo) merged to achieve operating efficiencies.
Studies have been completed by the PEA consultant relating to the establishment of a separate
transmission company, and international consultants have been working closely with both HEPCo and
SELCo to assist them in their ongoing development. Commercialization of both HEPCo and SELCo is
progressing, although HEPCo has had some setbacks. In late 2005, the local municipality liquidated the
minor shareholdings in the utility, bringing it back under the sole ownership of the government, and
began issuing invoices in the name of the municipality. At the same time, HEPCo continues to hold the
bank accounts and audit reports continue to be prepared for the company.

The third PDO was to "reinforce the power system in the central and southern regions of the West Bank
as the first step in the least-cost power system expansion plan aimed at the efficient and reliable provision
of electricity". In terms of overall outcomes, the indicators demonstrate substantial progress in the
efficient and reliable provision of electricity (see below). In terms of inputs, the investments were less
than anticipated under the project because of delays/shortfalls in cofinancing. However, part of that
shortfall was compensated with the utilities' own resources. Overall, investment in the central region was
approximately as planned, while the southern region got significantly less than expected.

There was also progress on reinforcing the distribution networks. A substantial amount of rehabilitation
and expansion of lines and substations was completed in the JDECo service area. JDECo installed a
modern SCADA system for communications among the power system operators, and a new computerized
IT system for billing and collections that has improved customer service and reduced nontechnical losses.
A GIS/NIS system has been procured and will interface with the SCADA and billing systems to form the
core of an integrated MIS. IT systems have also been installed at HEPCo and SELCo to the same design
and standards as those used by JDECO, which replaced the numerous scattered systems used by
municipalities, and have thus improved service levels and efficiency. These physical improvements were
achieved despite setbacks due to the suspension of EIB disbursements in 2002 as well as major delays in
the procurement of those materials and equipment for rehabilitation of the distribution systems which
were being funded by the government of Italy. Most of the contracts have now been completed and
approved for Italian-financed equipment for SELCo and JDECo, and delivery is expected in the near
future. However, quotations for equipment required by HEPCo significantly exceeded the funding
envelope. HEPCo was reluctant to proceed with the procurement at the quoted prices and it is likely that
this component of the Italian co-financing will be cancelled.

The Project achieved significant improvements in the performance of the participating utilities, which can
be attributed in large measure to the institutional strengthening and network rehabilitation efforts:




                                                       7

    (i)      JDECo reduced its technical losses from 10% to 8%, narrowed the range of voltage
             fluctuations, and cut the duration of total annual outages from 950 to 480 hours between 2000
             and 2006. Over the same period, it increased the number of customers served by 26.9%
             (4.9% per annum) and the total MWh billed by 27.9% (5% per annum). JDECo had less
             success in reducing non-technical losses. In an attempt to improve payment levels, the
             company undertook an extensive program to cut off supply to non-paying customers and
             introduce prepayment metering. Unfortunately, owing to the difficult economic situation,
             this led to a sharp increase in illegal connections. Non-technical losses are now estimated to
             be 12% (vs. 7% at the beginning of the project). JDECo has hired additional staff in an
             attempt to reduce non-technical losses ­ which in turn has decreased its ratio of customers to
             employees;
    (ii)     HEPCo showed significant improvement in technical performance, although this is attributed
             more to corporatization than to investments. Between 2003 and 2005, total losses dropped
             from 19% to 16.6%, and the total duration of outages declined from 60 hours to 26 hours.
             During the same period, HEPCo increased its customer base by an average of 3% per year
             and increased the energy billed (MWh) by over 10% per year; and
    (iii)    SELCo did not begin functioning as a utility until 2003, so comparative data is limited.
             However, between 2004 and 2005, the company increased the number of customers served by
             6.3%, and the total power delivered to customers by 15.8%.

3.3 Efficiency

The project's EIRR is estimated at 22.6%, and the Net Present Value at US$47.5 million (see Annex 3).
An FRR was not estimated at the time of appraisal. However, the project preparation team carried out an
assessment of the likely financial viability of the three participating utilities, and prepared pro forma
financial statements based on projections of revenues, expenditures, and capital investment.             A
comparison of these projected financial statements with actual results is included in Annex 9.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As described in section 3.2 above, the project achieved most of its institutional development objectives in
terms of the strengthening of sector institutions and the improvement in the performance of the utilities,
and it made some progress in the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework for the power sector.
In addition, the project enabled the sector to improve both the quality and quantity of electricity supply
over the duration of the project - a key aspect of the overall development objective. At the time of
appraisal, it was estimated that deterioration in the network would lead to a decrease in delivery capacity
of approximately 3% per year, and a consequent gap between supply and demand. In fact, over the
course of the project, the utilities increased their delivery of electricity supply from 900 GWh in 2001 to
over 1,200 GWh in 2005. These accomplishments were realized notwithstanding the fact that the Second
Intifada began in September 2000, shortly after the project's launch, and as a result, for much of the
implementation period, movement of both goods and people was constrained, and the capacity to
implement network improvements was severely limited. The main reason for downgrading the rating to
"moderately satisfactory" is the shortfall in investment caused by the cancellation and delays in
substantial amounts of cofinancing for network rehabilitation. This reason is complemented by a concern
about the sustainability of some of the Project accomplishments for the operations of the power networks
and billing and collections under the uncertain political and economic situation in the Region, continued
interventions in the operations and finances of the new electricity supply corporations by the
municipalities that are the main shareholders in HEPCo and SELCo, and the need for the PA to provide
adequate incentives to the utilities to pay fully and promptly for their purchases of bulk power from the
Israel Electric Corporation.


                                                       8

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not applicable

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Discussed above in Section 3.2

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

The sustainability of the Project is directly tied to the prospect of a peaceful settlement of the ongoing
conflict in the region, and to the formation of a unified government with pro-active policies. In the
absence of these factors, the distribution utilities will have difficulty in establishing and maintaining
financial viability, and sector reforms are likely to continue to be postponed by a government that is
distracted by other priorities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance during project preparation and appraisal is considered to be satisfactory. The Bank
stipulated significant up-front actions which were required as a demonstration of Borrower commitment
(Letter of Sector Development Policy, formation of SELCo and HEPCo). Provision was made for
technical assistance to address any shortcomings in Borrower implementation capacity. Stakeholders
(PEA, local municipalities, JDECo) were closely involved in defining the project's components, and
environmental issues were addressed in accordance with Bank requirements.               The rehabilitation
component of the project was based on a Generation, Transmission and Distribution Master Plan and
Emergency Assistance Project for WBG which was prepared under a consultancy service contract (funded
under the Technical Assistance Trust Fund). Under the contract, the detailed analysis made of existing
WBG system load characteristics established the basis for projecting demand growth under low, base, and
high-case economic conditions. The resulting master plan was technically sound and was based on
various equipment standards that have historically been in use in WBG, and equally importantly, was
accepted by the stakeholders as being appropriate for the development of the power system. While
political risks were recognized as "Substantial" at the time of appraisal, the PA had been granted
autonomy in areas covered by the project under the Peace Accords.



                                                      9

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance in supervision is also considered to be satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried
out on a regular basis and staffed by a suitable skill mix. Early attention was given to organizational and
procurement problems and the supervision missions showed appropriate flexibility in addressing issues
during implementation (such as local government unwillingness to engage a management contractor for
SELCo and withdrawal of EIB funding). In retrospect, it might be argued that more might have been
done to address the slow progress of Italian co-financing. However, the issue was raised with the Italian
Government as early as the 2002 supervision mission, and again during each of the subsequent
supervision missions. Each time the mission received assurances that the problems would be addressed ­
and in fact on each occasion some modest progress was made.               And while implementation was
unacceptably slow, in the end it appears that most of the funds will be disbursed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above, the overall Bank performance on the project is rated as satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The government generally provided the necessary ongoing support during the implementation of the
project. While it proved unable to follow through on its commitment to the implementation of sector
reforms (in terms of failure to achieve the support of the Legislative Council on establishing the necessary
legal and regulatory framework), there was no interference with the implementation of TA and
investment components of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Hebron Electric Power                There were some delays in initiating activities within SELCo
Company (HEPCo)                      and HEPCo, possibly due to lack of experience on the part of
                                     their municipal government stakeholders and also perhaps to
Southern Electric Company            some mistaken expectations on the part of these stakeholders
(SELCO)                              as to the financial and management implications of
                                     establishing commercial enterprises. However, once these
                                     were settled, the companies' management proved to be both
                                     effective and supportive of the project.

Jerusalem District Electricity       JDECo successfully implemented their parts of the project in
Company Ltd. (JDECo)                 a timely fashion. Through to the end of 2004, JDECo was in
                                     compliance with financial performance covenants and was up
                                     to date on submission of audited financial statements.

Palestinian Energy Authority         PEA also successfully implemented their parts of the project


                                                     10

(PEA)                                in a timely fashion



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Taking into account the above discussions of the borrower's performance in project preparation and
implementation by both government and the implementing agency, Borrower performance is rated as
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

1.      The project reinforces previous experience regarding the importance of maintaining flexibility in
project implementation when working in conflict areas. The outbreak of hostilities only six months after
project effectiveness was obviously a constraint on the timely and effective implementation of both TA
and investment components. Nevertheless, significant advances were accomplished under the project.
Investment priorities were re-evaluated as it became clear that cofinancing would be lower than
anticipated and TA schedules were re-arranged as it was realized that delivery of co-financed materials
would be delayed. At the same time, the Bank and implementing agencies maintained the momentum on
those components which were relatively unaffected by the conflict and which were basic for long term
development (e.g. training, implementation of IT systems, preparation of legal and regulatory documents).

2.      The impact of political factors on the corporatization and commercialization of state-owned
enterprises should not be underestimated. This is particularly true when the revenues of the enterprise
have previously formed part of the general revenues of the government. In addition to losing day-to-day
management control of the enterprise, the government may lose a significant part of its revenue base. The
corporatization of the Hebron distribution company, and the founding and corporatization of SELCo both
required substantial ongoing effort on the part of the Bank and PEA, even though these actions had been
agreed prior to Board presentation. As of 2006, the municipal shareholders of SELCo were still debating
the valuation of assets contributed to the merged company, while Hebron municipality had liquidated the
minority shareholdings in HEPCo as a perceived first step in returning it to municipal government control.

3.      Tied co-financing carries special risks, especially if manufacturers in the cofinancing country
specialize in products that are not technologically compatible with the Borrower's systems. JDECO, for
example, was unable to find an Italian manufacturer of distribution network SCADA systems. The
limited number and relatively high cost of bids for other equipment demonstrate the constraints associated
with being unable to procure from an internationally competitive selection of suppliers. Before relying on
tied cofinancing, the Borrower should be aware of these limitations, and ensure insofar as possible that
the donor country is able to supply equipment at a competitive price.

4.      A centralized Project Management Unit would have helped to ensure better co-ordination
between the various implementing agencies (JDECo, HEPCo, SELCo and PEA) as well as providing
appropriate technical/procurement support mainly in contract management to these agencies.

5.      The high customs duties imposed by Israel on the imported goods have hindered and slow the
successful implementation of contracts by the implementing agencies. Such situation has worsened by the
reluctance of Israel to give back such levies. This situation is expected to be experienced in future project
and therefore should be addressed during future project preparation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners


                                                     11

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Issues raised in the Borrower's ICR focused on (i) the difficulties associated with trying to implement the
project when the movement of consultants and goods was highly constrained by the ongoing hostilities,
and (ii) the problems encountered with procurement of goods to be financed by the Government of Italy,
including quoted prices well in excess of original cost estimates, lack of qualified bidders, and problems
with the performance of some of the selected bidders. These comments are borne out by the Bank's own
observations of the events.




                                                    12

(b) Cofinanciers

For the co-financed component, the implementation is still ongoing. Completion report was
therefore not sought.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                            13

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                              Appraisal
                      Components                               Estimate        Actual/Latest        Percentage of

                                                               (USD M)       Estimate(USD M)         Appraisal

REHAB. & UPGRADING OF ELECTRIC
UTILITY DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES, AND
                                                                     64.10                 40.58          63.31
IMPL. OF A DISTRIBUTION DISPATCHING
CENTER (SCADA ) FOR JDECO
MANAGEMENT CONTRACT AND TECHNICAL
                                                                     12.20                 11.45          93.85
ASSISTANCE
INITIAL STARTUP AND OPERATING
                                                                      2.50                  1.74          69.60
PROCEDURES
                                     Total Baseline Cost             78.80
Physical Contingencies                                                7.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies                                                   5.20                  0.00
                                     Total Project Costs             91.00                 53.77           59.09
Front-end fee PPF                                                     0.00                  0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                                    0.00                  0.00           0.00
               Total Financing Required/Available                    91.00                53.77            59.09
(b) Financing


                                                             Appraisal         Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds                   Type of                                                  Percentage of
                                         Cofinancing     Estimate (USD         Estimate (USD
                                                                M)*                  M)*              Appraisal

 EC: EUROPEAN
                                                                    38.00                  12.00            31.58
INVESTMENT BANK
 ITALY, GOV. OF (EXCEPT
FOR DEV. COOP. DEPT. -                                              35.00                    2.44             6.97
MOFA)
 LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV.,
DISTRICT, CITY) OF                                                    3.00                 24.37            812.3
BORROWING COUNTRY
 SPECIAL FINANCING ­ Bank
                                                                    15.00                  14.96            99.69
Trust Fund for West Bank/Gaza
TOTAL FINANCING                                                     91.00                  53.77             59.09
* Figures are not directly comparable since EIB and Italian commitments were in Euros, which have significantly
appreciated in value relative to the USD over the period of the project. The appraisal estimate for Component 1
adds up to US$76.3 million when the contingencies are included.




                                                         14

Annex 2: Outputs by Component

Component 1:

This component included rehabilitation and upgrading of electric utility distribution facilities in the
central West Bank and the Hebron governorate, and implementation of a distribution dispatching center
(SCADA) for JDECo. (Total cost, US$76.3 million of which the Bank financing was US$5.2 million).

All sub-components funded by the Bank were successfully completed. Under the JDECo program,
primary lines were rehabilitated and expanded. In addition, 12 new substations (33/11kV) were
constructed and 14 substations were rehabilitated. Following the suspension of EIB procurement in 2002,
JDECo funded the remaining works planned under those contracts from its own resources. In addition,
JDECo has acquired and installed a distribution SCADA system and an integrated Management
Information System.

Management Information Systems covering billings, finances, payroll and human resources were also
installed at SELCo and HEPCo and are now fully functional.

Of the distribution network rehabilitation components that were to be financed by the Italian government
(estimated to total $35 million), to date all materials requested by JDECo have been delivered (at a cost of
8.29 million). Contracts have been signed and approved for equipment for SELCo (8.69 million) and
delivery is expected in the near future. Bid evaluation has been completed on a further contract for 5.5
million and is awaiting clearance from the Italian Government. However, HEPCo and the Italian
Government were unable to agree on the cost and quantities of materials to be provided, and at present the
Italian Government has suspended procurement on the HEPCo components, on the grounds that the
company's legal status is unclear. It appears unlikely that this component can be completed with Project-
related financing.

Component 2:

Component 2 included funding for a management contract and technical assistance (TA) to strengthen
sector institutions. The component comprised four subcomponents: (i) the three-year cost (fixed fees and
performance incentive) of a performance-based management contract for SELCo; (ii) TA to JDECo in
areas where its own capacity has potential for improvement; (iii) TA to help the municipality of Hebron
corporatize and commercialize its electric utility operations (business plan implementation); and (iv) TA
to PEA to implement the actions specified in the PA's SSDP. Total cost estimate for this component was
US$12.2 million of which US$7.3 million was Bank financing.

The first sub-component was modified during implementation when it proved impossible to agree with
the newly established SELCo management on the scope and terms of the management
contract. Ultimately, the firm of Norconsult was engaged to assist in the start-up of SELCo, and to
provide technical assistance in the implementation of network rehabilitation and MIS components. The
consultant has provided support in the procurement of Italian-funded distribution equipment for SELCo,
and has also prepared bid documents for equipment that will be required by SELCo II (which will
integrate additional distribution utilities in the Hebron area into the existing SELCo enterprise).

With respect to subcomponent (ii), the firm of Norconsult was also engaged to assist JDECo in internal
restructuring and implementation of physical and MIS components of the project. The restructuring is
now complete, with three regional branches/business centers established, supported by the new
information system. The company believes that the new structure has improved working procedures and
management, resulting in higher operating efficiency and better cost control. In addition, at the request of



                                                       15

JDECo, Norconsult carried out a Tariff Study, and submitted the findings to the Israeli Regulatory
Agency.

Subcomponent (iii), assistance to Hebron municipality in establishing and commercializing its electricity
distribution operations, was implemented under a Technical Assistance contract with Fichtner. The
consultant has assisted the company in preparation of bid documents for equipment and materials,
implementation of the MIS, and execution of various rehabilitation works financed by the company's
internal funds. In addition, it has assisted in arranging training for 58% of the HEPCo staff.

Finally, the assistance to PEA under subcomponent (iv) led to the preparation of a Draft Electricity Law,
incorporating environmental standards and guidelines, and its presentation to the Legislative
Council. Other outputs included a plan for the establishment of an independent regulatory authority, and
a plan for the corporatization of the transmission network.




                                                      16

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
.
                                            Cost Benefit Analysis
                                (US$ million, base 2000, 10% discount rate)
 Economic Analysis

                                                               Appraisal         Latest Estimate
   PV Benefits                                                   $284.5               $298.8
   PV Costs                                                      $195.6               $251.3
   Net Present Value                                             $88.8                 $47.5
   EIRR                                                          23.0%                 22.6%

At the time of appraisal, the project's benefits were expected to consist primarily of increasing the
capacity to provide electricity service to customers in the Jerusalem and Hebron districts. Consumption at
the time was in the order of 750 GWh per year, and it was postulated that (a) this was the capacity of the
distribution network and (b) absent the project; this capacity would decline by approximately 3% per
year. With the project, it was postulated that distribution capacity could be increased to 800 GWh per
year. The difference between the two projections ­ the increased capacity to deliver electricity to
customers in the area ­ was valued at the cost of alternative diesel generation (estimated at US15
cents/kWh). This saving constituted 85% of the project's benefits. Other benefits included savings in
power factor correction penalties, reduced imports, and reduced losses in the distribution network.

As of the end of 2005, increases in delivery capacity had far exceeded the projections at the time of
appraisal. The three utilities together delivered 1,222 GWh of electricity to customers in their service
areas. However, it is also clear that the appraisal estimates of the system's capacity to deliver electricity
prior to the project were seriously under-estimated. In 2000, the utilities delivered approximately 950
GWh (although this had fallen to less than 900 GWh by 2001, suggesting that the projections of declining
capacity might have been reasonable). At this late date, one can only guess at what might have been the
counterfactual had the project not been implemented. If it assumed that the system's base capacity was, in
fact, 950 GWh rather than 750 GWh and that without the project, this capacity would have declined by
3% per year, then the capacity of the system would have been only 815 GWh in 2005. Delivery of 1,222
GWh constitutes a benefit of 407 GWh in additional capacity in that year (as well as lesser benefits in
2002, 2003 and 2004).

The benefit associated with the incremental supply ­ in terms of customer willingness-to-pay ­ is likely to
lie somewhere between the tariff (approximately US11 cents/kWh) and the cost of substitute energy
sources (assumed for this analysis to be the cost of diesel generation or US15 cents/kWh).        Assuming
that the mid-point of these two values is a reasonable representation of customer willingness to pay, the
IRR for the project over a 20 year life would be 22.6%, and the Net Present Value would be US$47.5
million. The benefit calculations are summarized in the table above.

There is considerable uncertainty regarding the extent to which the increase in electricity supply can be
attributed to the investments made over the project period, especially given that the original estimates of
system capacity clearly understated the potential supply capability of the system at the time of appraisal.
However, the above estimates of willingness to pay for incremental electricity supply are also extremely
conservative (a more detailed analysis, based on the cost of typical substitutes such as kerosene, charcoal,
and/or LPG, would undoubtedly yield a higher value). Furthermore, even if the estimates of increased
capacity attributable to the project are reduced by half, the project would still yield an IRR of 10.3%. In
addition, while the post-project IRR analysis described above incorporates the benefits of loss reduction
(through changes in the cost of electricity purchases required to meet demand), it does not take into
account the value of service improvements. Reduction in outages in particular has been significant, with


                                                     17

the total duration of annual outages dropping by almost half in JDECo since the beginning of the project
and by more than half in HEPCo since it began commercial operations in 2003. (SELCo was unable to
provide comparative data on outages). While the value willingness to pay for avoided outages is debated
(in many instances, the MWh of usage lost during an outage are simply made up at another time), it is
generally accepted that customers are willing to pay at least some premium in order to avoid the
inconvenience and potential equipment damage associated with sudden and unexpected loss of electricity
supply.

Finally, the above analysis does not take into account the environmental benefits associated with avoided
use of diesel generators, or the reduction of equipment damages as a result of better frequency
control. Hence, on balance, it can be concluded that the project will yield a more-than-acceptable rate of
return on investment.

Financial Analysis:

There were no financial covenants attached to the Credit. Jerusalem District Electricity Corporation
(JDECo) has been operating for years and has largely been able to generate enough revenues to cover
operating costs. It has a low debt to equity ratio providing for opportunities for further leverage. This of
course is contingent upon JDECo's continued ability to generate cash flows to cover debt service
obligations (at present, it has an adequate debt service coverage ratio). The accounts receivable of JDECo
has increased over the years, which currently stands at 220 days of sales equivalent compared to the
appraisal estimate of 90 days.       It is imperative that JDECo takes steps to improve its collection
performance.

The other two entities Hebron Electric Power Company (HEPCo) and Southern Electric Company
(SELCo) were envisaged to be fully operational by 2000. In reality however, HEPCo became operational
in late 2004 and SELCo in late 2003 and they are yet to gain a sound financial position for future
sustainability.




                                                      18

    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members


         Names                        Title                    Unit           Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
                                                                            Task Team Leader/ Financial
Somin Mukherji          Senior Financial Analyst             MNSSD
                                                                            Analyst
Rene G. Mendonca        Consultant                           MNSSD          Power Engineer/PAS
Adel Fahed J.Odeh       Financial Management Analyst         MNCO4          Financial Mgmt Analyst
Khairy Al-Jamal         Senior Infrastructure Specialist     MNSSD          Implementation Specialist
                        Senior Financial Management
Siaka Bakayoko                                              MNAFM           Financial Mgmt Spec.
                       Specialist
Margaret Wilson         Consultant                           MNSSD          Primary Author
Ahmed Merzouk          Sr. Procurement Specialist            MNCO4          Procurement Specialist
Hayat Taleb Al-Harazi   Program Assistant                    MNSSD          Program Assistant
Dominique M. Dietrich Language Program Assistant             MNSSD          Program Assistant
Angeline Mani          Language Program Assistant            MNSSD          Program Assistant
Zubair Sadeque          Consultant                           MNSSD          Financial Analyst
Hisham Labadi           Consultant                           MNC04          Procurement Specialist


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                Stage of Project Cycle
                                                          No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                        FY96                                                                       134.98
                        FY97                                                                       251.90
                        FY98                                                                       172.22
                        FY99                                                                       208.00
                        FY00                                                                        49.73
                        FY01                                                                         0.00
                        FY02                                                                         0.00
                        FY03                                                                         0.00
                        FY04                                                                         0.00
                        FY05                                                                         0.00
                        FY06                                                                         0.00
                        FY07                                                                         0.00


                                                     19

                          Total:           816.83
Supervision/ICR
                  FY00               21     94.33
                  FY01               15     78.00
                  FY02               13     57.21
                  FY03               10     51.47
                  FY04               12     56.79
                  FY05               14     66.49
                  FY06               26    103.42
                  FY07               10     50.00
                          Total:    121     557.71




                            20

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                     21

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                      22

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                     23

Borrower's Contribution for the Implementation

             Completion Report




               March 2007




                    24

Project Development Objective

The development objective of the Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
is to benefit the electricity consumers, predominantly households, through sustainable
improvements in the quality of electricity supply in the targeted areas of the project, through
fundamental power sector institutional reforms (the policy components), implemented in parallel
with reinforcement of the power system (the physical components). In particular, the project will:

(a) Initiate restructuring of the power sector in accordance with the Palestinian Authority's (PA's)
Letter of Power Sector Development Policy. This will involve the corporatization and
commercialization of two new entities: the Hebron Electric Power Company (HEPCo) and the
Southern Electric Company (SELCo)-the latter taking over the electric utility operations of five
small municipalities in the area;

(b) Strengthen the Palestinian Energy Authority's (PEA's) capacity to put in place power sector
reforms and sector environmental regulations, and to establish an overall institutional basis-
building on international best practices-for the sustainable operation of the power sector and the
safeguarding of consumer interests;

(c) Reinforce the power system in the central and southern regions of the West Bank in the least-
cost power system expansion plan aimed at the efficient and reliable provision of electricity.

Project Components



Component 1: Rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network - US$76.3 million
The Bank, along with Italian and EIB parallel financing, would finance this component to
rehabilitate, upgrade and expand the existing distribution networks in SELCo, HEPCo and
JDECo, and it forms the critical initial part of the least-cost solution for power system expansion.
This component would reinforce the network in JDECo (central region of West Bank) and
SELCo & HEPCo (the southern region of West Bank).


Component 2: Technical assistance to strengthen sector institutions - US$12.2 million
This component would be financed by the Bank, with Italian parallel financing, and counterpart
funding (US$3.0 million) by the project utilities (JDECo, HEPCo and SELCo), and aims to
provide technical assistance to SELCo, HEPCo, JDECo and PEA.


Component 3: Initial Startup and Operating Expenditures - US$2.5 million
This component would be financed by the Bank. It would cover a portion of the startup costs of
SELCo to operate as a financially sound and technically capable power distribution company.
Funding would include provision of expert services, training, and goods related to the initial
startup of the company. This component would also cover a portion of the startup cost to establish
HEPCo's capacity to operate as a financially sound and technically capable power distribution
company.




                                                  25

Achievement of Project Objectives

Rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network

Several rehabilitation projects have been achieved specially in JDECo area while none of the
rehabilitation projects in SELCo & HEPCo have been achieved due to reasons listed in section 4.

Rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network in JDECo

Construction and commissioning of twelve 33/11 kV Turnkey substations
This project aimed to rehabilitate 1 of the existing JDECo 33/11kV substations and 2 switching
stations in the areas of Ramallah, Bethlehem, Jericho and Jerusalem, the project consists of the
supply of power transformers, switchgears, ring main units and various equipments needed to
implement the project. The project was finalized satisfactory.

SCADA System
This project is one of the most important projects that have been implemented in JDECo. The
project was originally planned to be financed by Italy, but due to the delays occurred tin the
bidding process as it has been tendered for two times and in both only one bidder submitted an
offer that turned to be technically responsive but double the allocated budget, and due to the
restrictions of the financing that the bid is subject to national competitive bidding with supply of
material of Italian origin it turned to be non realistic to tender for the third time as only the same
bidder participated in the first two. Due to the importance of the project JDECo decided to
finance it and re-tendered for the third time but with an open international competitive bid (ICB).
The decision turned to be right and JDECo could sign an agreement with an international
contractor to implement the SCADA system and within the budget. The project is one of the most
successful projects in JDECo.

Rehabilitation of Overhead, underground Medium Voltage and Low Voltage networks
The project consists of the supply of the needed materials to rehabilitate and reinforce the
medium voltage and the low voltage networks in JDECo. The supply consists of supplying
distribution transformers, under ground cables, conductors and insulators, switches, steel poles
and arms. These supplies have been bought by floating 5 ICB tenders. The implementation of the
rehabilitation projects has been carried by JDECo.

Supply of Vehicles
The project consists of the supply of one heavy truck with crane, two Hydraulic Basket Trucks,
one truck with crane for Pole transport, two medium size trucks, five Mini Busses, two forklifts
and one mobile crane, in addition another two utility vehicles were cancelled, as these are not
made in Italy.

Tools and test equipment
The project consist of the supply of different test equipment, mainly Oil Treatment Plant, 3ph
reference Energy Meter, 3ph Source, 3ph Network Analyzer, Volt and Ampere MV testing
meters with sticks, and Hydraulic Cable Spiking Tools

Network Information System (NIS) and Geographic Information System (GIS)
This project was planned to be financed by the EIB loan, after tendering for the procurement of
the NIS/GIS system and even receiving the no objection from the financier, JDECo has been




                                                  26

informed by the EIB that all disbursements have been "frozen" due to arrears with the Palestinian
Authority.

Attempts were made to transfer the project to be financed by Italy, after time consuming
discussions with Italy they have agreed to finance the project but under the condition to re-tender
for the project. The re-tendering process resulted in a high and over budget bids. JDECo decided
to reject all the bids and to go for leasing the system with their own recourses for financing.

Rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network in HEPCo.
None.

All the obstacles in achieving results for the rehabilitation of HEPCO network is detailed in
section 4.

Rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network in SELCo.
None

All the obstacles in achieving results for the rehabilitation of SELCo network is detailed in
section 4.

Technical assistance to strengthen sector institutions
The technical assistance has been provided to all the beneficiaries i.e. JDECo, HEPCo, SELCo
and PEA. The following sections illustrate the achievement gained by each one of them.

Technical Assistance to strengthen JDECo
The recruited consultant assisted JDECo in:
    · Performing a detailed technical analysis of the network to identify the weakness and
         suggest rehabilitation projects;
    · Preparation of Restructuring/modernizing plan of JDECo as a corporate entity to enhance
         its management effectiveness and the consultant supervised the implementation of this
         plan. The new organizational structure is to meet functional business requirements, to
         improve customer responsiveness, and improve cost effectiveness. The plan has been
         implemented successfully;
    · Preparation of the needed tender documents and evaluation reports to procure all the
         supplies needed in the rehabilitation projects;
    · In addition a great advantage in strengthening JDECo was the implementation of the new
         IT systems comprised of Oracle Financials (including Stock system), Billing and
         Customer Information System, Human Resources and Payroll, Archiving and Fleet
         management system, new HR and Payroll system, and Archiving system. Training of the
         staff turned out to be a major task during the implementation period. Training sessions
         were held at JDECo training centre in Shuáfat as well as "on the Job" training at the
         various Branches.

Technical Assistance to strengthen HEPCo
Making use of the available funds, HEPCo has started and gone live on 1/1/2005 in full power as
a paperless company after the successful implementation of all financial, billing, and
administrative software installed and the necessary hardware purchased with the allocation of
Company Building Component. HEPCo's Consultants have as well contributed in this success by
assisting in staff appraisal and drafting the operational and revaluation manuals.



                                                   27

HEPCo implemented an IT system similar to the one in JDECo including Oracle Financials
(including Stock system), Billing and Customer Information System, Human Resources and
Payroll, Archiving and Fleet management system, HR and Payroll system, and Archiving system,
in addition to the needed staff training.

Technical Assistance to strengthen SELCo
SELCo recruited consultant assisted in:
     · Preparation of modern organizational structure for SELCo and in recruiting the main key
          person in the company.
     · Preparation of the needed tender documents and evaluation reports to procure all the
          supplies needed in the rehabilitation projects;
     · Implementation of IT system similar to the system in JDECo and HEPCo.

Technical Assistance to strengthen PEA
The most important achievement gained for PEA component is laying down all the necessary
steps needed to create a well regulated electricity sector and implement all the objectives and
reforms indicated in the PA's SSDP, and laying the legal institutional, economic and financial
and technical basis for efficient system development. PEA with the assistance of the consultant
laid down all the necessary requirements ­legal, financial and technical requirements- to establish
the Palestinian Electric Transmission Company (PETL), and the establishment and launching of
the Palestinian Energy Regulation Commission (PERC). These two components are the most
important and pivotal components of the energy sector structure foreseen in the LSP.

The creation of PETL and PERC is waiting for the ratification of the Palestinian Electricity law
by the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC). The electricity law is also one of the major
outcomes achieved during the ESIMP project.

PEA is expecting a fast development of the energy sector as soon as the electricity law is ratified
by the PLC.

In addition to the above mentioned achievements, PEA could through the ESMP provide training
for planning and maintenance purposes for the Palestinian utilities engineers and technicians.

Initial Startup and Operating Expenditures

HEPCo
The project design has provided for a number of measures to improve the cash generation
capability of the new operating utilities, among which funding for initial start-up and operating
expenditures to operate as a financially sound and technically capable power distribution
company. Funding would include provision of expert services, training, and goods related to the
initial startup of the company.

The initial startup cost for HEPCo not to mention that the core of the Company success was the
allocation made for the startup expenses to finish the headquarter, main stores, procuring vehicles
and other necessary operational expense

SELCo
The initial startup and operating expenditures could finance the procuring of vehicles, portion of
employee's salaries and other necessary operational expense.




                                                  28

Major Factors Affecting implementation and Outcome
Since the upraising of the Intifada in September 2000, the working conditions have in general
been difficult, the utilities, suppliers and the consultant. The Israeli policy of closures and
political unrest restricted movement of project staff / consultants. This policy imposed a delay in
the supply and delivery of materials needed for the implementation of the rehabilitation projects
which forced a bid delay on these projects.

Most the bids financed by Italy where much higher than budget from 35%-100% higher than the
anticipated budget. This forced the utilities and their consultants to cancel the bids or to re-tender
which is a time and money consuming.

The HEPCo rehabilitation projects financed by Italy have been cancelled after long tome for
tendering, evaluation and no objection process from Italy.

Some of JDECo contracts for the rehabilitation of the network financed by Italy have been
cancelled and diverted to be financed by JDECo internal resources.

The frozen of the EIB loan to JDECo due to the arrears between EIB and the PA affected
performing the remaining projects in JDECo.

The delays in processing the procurement procedures with the Italian financed projects resulted in
disproportionate price increase sought by bidders especially due to the rapid increase of the
copper and aluminum, this forced some of the bidders to request a big increase of their prices
which affected and delayed the supply of materials especially for SELCo as none of its materials
have been delivered up to date.

The performance of some bidders was not satisfactory as anticipated which forced also another
delays for the implementation of the rehabilitation projects.

The HEPCo consultant has been unable to complete the remaining activities with respect to assist
HEPCo in procurement aspects leading to contract award.

By late 2005, on account of pressures applied by certain sections of the population forced Hebron
municipality to issue the bills under the name of the municipality instead of HEPCo. As a result
of this factor and the factor stated under paragraph 4 (c), the Rehabilitation Project Component
was first postponed, then it was totally cancelled by the Italian Government.

For SELCo several extra weaknesses points arose during the implementation phases of this
project especially as the project was directed to small municipalities whose teams were not
experienced enough to run a business of this size. In addition their has been weakness in the
planned phases of the project as Phase I which includes five municipalities with startup budget of
USD 2.3 millions, while Phase II that includes eleven municipalities and sixty nine village
councils, but no budget to cover the cost of joining these municipalities and villages to SELCo.




                                                 29

Project Financing
                      Source of Funds                           Actual/Latest Estimate (USD M)

 EC: EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK                                                               12.00

 ITALY, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR DEV. COOP. DEPT. -
                                                                                             2.44
MOFA)

 LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF
                                                                                            24.37
BORROWING COUNTRY

 SPECIAL FINANCING ­ Bank Trust Fund for West Bank/Gaza                                     14.96
Total                                                                                       53.77

Evaluation of Bank's Performance
The Bank was very cooperative and comprehensive; especially when they have accepted the
extension of the project twice to make sure that beneficiaries achieve some of the project
objectives. Not to mention the cooperation between PEA, the utilities and closeness of the skilled,
professional, and highly experienced Bank's staff in all the needed assistance, it has provided all
necessary advice and guidance with enthusiasm that helped in achieving the development
objectives for all PEA and utilities. Allow us to express our gratitude to all of them.

The over all performance of the bank is highly satisfactory except for the performance of the EIB
bank when stopped disbursement; in which affected the implementation of some projects.

Evaluation of Borrower's Performance
Despite of the fact that some components have not been achieved due to external factors such as
the Intifada, the frozen of EIB loan, the un-approval of the electricity law and the delay of the
procurement process, the borrower feels that his performance was highly satisfactory. As big
portion of the development objectives especially the institutional part has been achieved.

Key lessons learned
The important lessons learned from this project are:
    · Applying an International Competitive Biddings procedures and regulation for the
        procurement of the goods, as this will ensure a more economical an least cost materials
        and no big jump in the cost will be foreseen.
    · The importance of having a Program Monitoring/Managing Unit (PMU) in similar future
        projects.
    · The rules and regulations for procuring materials shall be unified for all the project
        components and financiers, it is not logical that each financier will have its own
        procurement regulations and conditions in the same project.
    · The cooperation between the beneficiaries and the World Bank staff is a major issue for
        removing unexpected obstacles.
    · The selection of the project consultant is a key factor of smooth and successful
        implementation of the project who should have been involved in the startup operation of
        SELCo.
    · The assigning of the key persons (General Manager, Financial Manager, Technical
        manager) of SELCo should have been given to an independent professional third party
        and through them the experience can be passed successfully to newly-assigned and less-
        qualified personnel.




                                                 30

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    31

32

                                                                  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

(a) Consolidated financial statements of JDECo, HEPCo and SELCo
                                                                      Jerusalem District Electricity Corporation
                                                                                    Income Statement
                                                                              (Figures in Thousand NIS)
                                       1998            1999               2000                2001                2002                 2003                  2004         2005
                                      Actual    Forecast   Actual  Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast    Actual     Forecast   Actual  Actual
 Electricity Sales Revenue             203,871   209,919   209,606 232,482    280,333  257,551    269,262  286,584    308,093  317,583       345,072   352,405   408,890 497,484

 Operating Expenses
 Electricity Purchased                 161,803   164,831   178,536 178,202    222,515   190,610   213,710  207,330    238,000  224,707       267,266   249,346   327,969 399,900
 Depreciation                             2,347    6,404     3,484   9,052     19,233   13,616     21,637   17,268     22,822   19,094        26,339    20,098    27,212  28,653
 Repairs and Maintenance                  7,064    2,247     5,502   3,176     12,004    4,778     14,557    6,059     13,210    6,700         9,409     7,052    14,199  15,131
 Wages and Salaries                     20,732    23,842    24,850  27,418     25,861   31,531     25,024   36,260     26,791   41,699        32,774    47,954   36,289   46,043
 Other Operating Expenses                 6,534    7,187     5,361   7,906      5,890     8,697     6,765    9,566      8,703   10,523        11,729    11,575    15,524  16,804
 Provision for Bad Debts                           4,198     5,000   4,650      4,000    5,151      5,000    5,732     15,000    6,352        14,700     7,048     8,000   6,887
 Provision for Severance Pay            12,630    11,921     4,689  13,709      6,355   15,765     17,085   18,130     16,205   20,850         2,966    23,977     6,818  12,640
 Total Operating Expenses              211,110   220,630   227,422 244,113    295,859   270,148   303,778  300,345    340,731  329,925       365,184   367,050   436,011 526,058
 Consumer Participation                 11,732    16,011    17,545  17,612     18,266    19,373    19,045   21,310     18,252   23,441        17,016    25,785    15,122  33,365
 Other Income                             4,590    4,769     8,900   5,151      6,103    5,563      6,452    6,008      5,009    6,489        10,733     7,008     7,773   5,477

 Operating Income                         9,083   10,069     8,629  11,132      8,844   12,339     (9,019)  13,557     (9,377)  17,588         7,638    18,148   (4,226)  10,268

 Interest Income                        17,531    17,029    12,086  15,127     13,104   20,572     10,561   27,001      7,925   35,260        20,757    43,719     8,118  12,999
 Existing Loans Interest Expense          (553)    (331)     (419)    (331)     (337)     (331)     (536)     (331)     (874)     (331)       (1,245)    (331)   (1,276)  (2,384)
 ESIMP Loans Interest Expense                                    -  (2,689)     (474)   (7,326)    (3,873) (11,036)    (5,183) (12,241)       (5,369) (12,496)   (4,958)        -

 Net Financing Revenues                 16,978    16,698    11,667  12,107     12,293    12,915     6,152   15,634      1,868   22,688        14,144    30,892     1,884  10,615

 Restructuring and Network Rehabilitation Costs                  -            (5,733)              (6,696)             (4,473)                (3,386)            (1,397)       -
 Management Contract Revenue                  -        -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -             -        -         -       -

 Net Income Before Tax                  26,061    26,767    20,296  23,239     15,405   25,254     (9,563)  29,191    (11,982)  40,276        18,395    49,040   (3,738)  20,883

 Income Tax                               9,540    8,030     5,000   6,972     8,274     7,576      1,000    8,757      7,000   12,083        16,000   14,712      5,000   7,233
 Net Income After Tax                   16,521    18,737   15,296   16,267     7,131    17,678    (10,563)  20,434    (18,982)  28,193         2,395   34,328    (8,738)  13,650

 Appropriation of Profit
 Board Remuneration                          99      109      176      120       164       132           -     145        150      159           198      175          -        -
 Declared Dividends                       1,328    5,353     1,328   4,648      1,770     5,051          -   5,838      1,002    8,055         1,463     9,808         -        -
 Retained Earnings                      15,094    13,275    13,792  11,499      5,196   12,495    (10,563)  14,451    (20,133)  19,979           734    24,345   (8,738)  38,203

 Times Interest Earned                 48.1      81.9       49.4     8.7       20.0      4.3       -1.2      3.6       -1.0      4.2        3.8         4.8       0.4      9.8
 Return on Total Assets                7%         8%        5%       6%        1%        4%        -2%       4%        -3%       5%         0%          6%        -1%      2%
 Return on Net Worth                   14%       14%       11%      11%        2%       11%        -3%      12%        -5%      15%         1%         16%        -2%      3%
 Operating Ratio                       96%       96%       96%      96%       97%       96%        103%     96%        103%     95%        98%         95%       101%     98%
 Provision for Doubtful Accounts as % of Sales    2%        2%       2%        1%        2%         2%       2%         5%       2%         4%          2%        2%       1%




                                                                                           33

                                                                    Jerusalem District Electricity Corporation
                                                                                    Balance Sheet
                                                                            (Figures in Thousand NIS)
                                        1998          1999               2000                 2001                2002                2003                2004           2005
                                       Actual   Forecast  Actual  Forecast   Actual   Forecast    Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual    Actual
Current Assets
Cash and Bank Balances                  61,398   41,158    64,550  56,046     50,355    74,002     36,250   98,978     38,226  122,511     59,429   150,638    53,199    41,421
Accounts Receivable                     86,102   74,766   83,102   73,248    112,036    70,562    150,284   70,664    229,068   78,308    208,345    86,894   248,646   312,907
Provision for Doubtful Debts            (6,000)  (8,398) (11,000) (10,529)   (15,000)  (12,521)   (20,000) (14,496)   (52,159) (16,499)   (64,159)  (18,597)  (72,159)  (78,159)
Materials and Supplies in Stores        14,659   16,853   18,237   23,820     17,404    35,832     37,163   45,442     37,208   50,247     28,942    52,889    29,899    29,724
Other Current Assets                     1,118     1,286   15,057   1,479     41,098     1,700     32,683    1,955        148    2,249        122     2,586       238       405
Total Current Assets                   157,277  125,665   169,946 144,064    205,893   169,575    236,379  202,543    252,491  236,816    232,679   274,410   259,823   306,298

Restricted Assets
Cash at Bank - for Severance Pay        23,747    34,476   37,387  46,814     48,083    61,003     38,768   77,320     39,689   96,085     40,607   117,664    46,227          -
Cash at Bank - for Restructuring Project               -        -        -    44,058         -     11,306         -     3,075         -       405          -         -         -
Fixed Assets
Operating Assets                       102,142   112,356  122,961 158,803    633,725   238,883    648,213  302,947    660,461  334,979    680,779   352,596   710,067   737,533
Accumulated Depreciation              (16,021)  (22,425) (21,712) (31,477)  (281,421) (45,093)   (306,034) (62,361)  (315,708) (81,455)  (341,989) (101,553) (369,201) (397,854)
Net Operating Assets                    86,121    89,931  101,249 127,326    352,304   193,790    342,179  240,586    344,753  253,524    338,790   251,043   340,866   339,679
Deferred Consumer Participation       (25,057)  (25,057) (31,441) (25,057)   (37,690) (25,057)    (45,835) (25,057)          - (25,057)          -  (25,057)         -         -
Investments                                275       275    2,428     275      2,468       275      2,434      275      2,434      275      2,434       275     2,434     3,004
Concession Rights                           50        50       50      50         50        50         50       50         50       50         50        50        50        50
Total Assets                           242,413  225,340   279,619 293,472    615,166   399,636    585,280  495,717    642,491  561,693    614,966   618,385   649,400   649,031

Current Liabilities
Due to Banks                             7,234       661    1,941     661      3,212       661      1,093      661      5,280      661        748       661     1,775     9,447
Accounts Payable                        24,474   12,041    19,588  13,028     32,883    13,951     40,470   15,183     85,888   16,466     38,357    18,265    48,720    43,344
Income Tax Payable                      15,763     8,030   30,421   6,972     38,695     7,576               8,757      3,766   12,083     12,968    14,712    13,720     3,545
Dividends Payable                        2,952     5,353    3,818   4,648      4,612     5,051      3,281    5,838      3,358    8,055      4,278     9,808     4,082     2,575
Current Portion of Long Term Debt                           5,497              5,497                5,497   10,819      5,497   12,751      5,497    13,885     5,497     5,497
Other Current Liabilities                2,877     3,107    2,942   3,356      3,450     3,624      3,893    3,914     11,213    4,227      6,662     4,565    10,358    15,433
Total Current Liabilities               53,300   29,192   64,206   28,665     88,349    30,863     54,235   45,172    115,002   54,243     68,510    61,896    84,151    79,842
Deferred Revenue                        16,969         -   25,722        -    24,805          -    15,517         -    15,529         -    33,167          -   50,460    59,088
Reserve for Severance Pay               48,769    59,498   52,536  71,836     53,594    86,025     52,126  102,342     50,465  121,107     52,659   142,686    59,348    15,644
ESIMP Loans                                  -         -        -  44,822     50,025   122,102     75,572  173,107     92,356  191,268     34,735   194,385    34,242    34,148
Other Loans                              3,850     3,850    3,850   3,850      3,850     3,850      3,850    3,850      3,850    3,850     57,171     3,850    60,482    60,503
Total Liabilities and                  122,888   92,540   146,314 149,173    220,623   242,840    201,300  324,471    277,202  370,468    246,242   402,817   288,684   249,225

Shareholders' Equity
Share Capital                            3,750     3,750    3,750   3,750      3,750     3,750      3,750    3,750      3,750    3,750      3,750     3,750     3,750     3,750
Special Reserve                         40,353    40,353   40,353  40,353     40,353    40,353     40,353   40,353     40,353   40,353     43,053    40,353    43,053    43,939
Fixed Assets Revaluation Reserve        35,624   35,624   35,611   35,624    291,654    35,624    291,047   35,624    275,008   35,624    256,772    35,624   238,711   221,318
Compulsory Reserve                       1,875     1,875    1,875   1,875      1,875     1,875      1,875    1,875      1,875    1,875      1,875     1,875     1,875     1,875
Retained Earnings                       37,923   51,198    51,715  62,697     56,911    75,192     46,955   89,643     44,303  109,622     63,274   133,967    73,327   128,924
Total Shareholders' Equity             119,525   132,800  133,304 144,299    394,544   156,794    383,980  171,245    365,289  191,224    368,724   215,569   360,716   399,806
Total Liabilities & Equity             242,413  225,340   279,618 293,472    615,166   399,634    585,281  495,716    642,492  561,692    614,966   618,386   649,400   649,031




                                                                                            34

                                                             Jerusalem District Electricity Corporation
                                                                 Sources & Applications of Funds
                                                                     (Figures in Thousand NIS)
                                     1998          1999               2000              2001               2002              2003              2004         2005
                                    Actual   Forecast  Actual  Forecast   Actual  Forecast  Actual   Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Actual
Sources of Funds
Operating Income                      9,083   10,069    8,629   11,132     3,111   12,339   (15,716)  13,557  (13,850)  17,588    4,251   18,148  \(5,622)  10,268
Depreciation                          2,347     6,404   5,691    9,052   259,709   13,616    24,613   17,268    9,674   19,094   26,281   20,098   27,212   28,653
Plus: Non-operating Income           17,531   17,029   12,086   15,127    13,104   20,572    10,561   27,001    7,925   35,260   20,757   43,719    8,118   12,999
Total Funds from Internal Sources    28,961   33,502   26,406   35,311   275,924   46,527    19,459   57,826    3,749   71,942   51,290   81,965   29,708   51,920
Funds from External Sources
Share Capital & Reserves                   -  10,729    3,754   12,338   257,101   14,189    (1,467)  16,317    (219)   18,765    4,894   21,579    7,420  (18,265)
ESIMP Loans                                -        -   5,497   44,822    55,522   77,280    31,045   61,824   22,281   30,912  (52,123)  17,002    5,004    5,402
Other Loans                                -        -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -        -  53,321         -   3,311       22
Deferred Consumer Participation            -        -   6,384         -    6,249         -    8,145         - (45,835)        -        -        -        -        -
Total Funds from External Sources          -  10,729   15,635   57,160   318,873   91,469    37,723   78,141  (23,773)  49,677    6,091   38,581   15,735  (12,840)
Total Sources of Funds               28,961   44,231   42,041   92,471   594,797  137,996    57,181  135,967  (20,025) 121,619   57,380  120,546   45,443   39,080

Applications of Funds
Investment Program                    7,854   10,214   20,819   46,447   510,764   80,080    14,488   64,064   12,248   32,032   20,318   17,617   29,288   27,466
Other Short Term Investment                -        -   2,153         -        41        -      (34)        -        -        -        0        -        -     570
Debt Service
Interest                                553       331     419    3,020       811    7,657     4,409   11,367    6,057   12,572    6,613   12,827    6,234    2,384
Principal Repayment                        -        -        -        -    5,497         -    5,497         -   5,497   10,819    5,497   12,751    5,497    5,497
Total Debt Service                      553       331     419    3,020     6,308    7,657     9,906   11,367   11,554   23,391   12,111   25,578   11,731    7,881
Income Tax                            9,540     8,030   5,000    6,972     8,274    7,576     1,000    8,757    7,000   12,083   16,000   14,712    5,000    7,233
Dividends                             1,328     5,353   1,328    4,648     1,770    5,051          -   5,838    1,002    8,055    1,463    9,808         -        -
Board Remuneration                        99     109      176      120       164      132          -     145      150      159      198      175         -        -
Other                               (37,925)  10,729   13,640   12,338    54,754   14,189   (42,066)  16,317   (7,311)  18,765   (1,751)  21,579    5,214  (46,227)
Change in Working Capital            39,693   29,705   (4,645)    4,038   26,917    5,357    87,993    4,502  (46,644)   3,601  (12,161)   2,948      440   53,934
Cash Increase (Decrease)              7,819  (20,240)   3,152   14,888   (14,195)  17,954   (14,105)  24,977    1,977   23,533   21,203   28,129   (6,231) (11,778)
Cash Beginning of Year               53,579   61,398   61,398   41,158    64,550   56,046    50,355   74,000   36,250   98,977   38,226  122,510   59,429   53,199
Cash End of Year                     61,398   41,158   64,550   56,046    50,356   74,000    36,249   98,977   38,226  122,510   59,429  150,639   53,199   41,421

Debt as a % of Debt plus Equity         3%        3%      3%      25%       12%      45%       17%      51%       21%     51%      20%      48%      21%      19%
Days of Sales in Receivables            143      130      145      115       146      100       204       90      271       90      220       90      222      230
Current Ratio                            3.0      4.3      2.6      5.0       2.3     5.5        4.4     4.5       2.2     4.4       3.4     4.4       3.1      3.8
Debt Service Coverage Ratio             35.1     77.0     51.1      9.4      42.4     5.1        1.9     4.3     (0.3)     2.6       2.9     2.6       2.1      5.7
Self-Financing Ratio                    3.04   (1.19)     2.02    0.77       1.29    0.46     (0.44)    0.43      0.17    0.42      2.15    0.76      0.61   (0.67)




                                                                                    35

                              Hebron Electric Power Company
                                      Income Statement
                                  (Figures in Thousand NIS)
                            2000      2001       2002      2003         2004        2005
                           Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast    Actual   Actual


Electricity Sales Revenue   37,783     43,242    78,595    92,098  109,938        - 84,111


Operating Expenses
Electricity Purchased       23,772     26,231    29,395    33,300   38,905        - 79,394
Depreciation                 1,766      3,070     4,143     4,734    5,133     136   4,347
Repairs & Maintenance          400        659     1,100     1,464    1,668     101     266
Severance Pay Expense          232        275       325       373      429     107     254
Wages & Salaries             3,309      3,926     4,636     5,331    6,131   1,232   4,645
General & Administrative
Expenses                     1,324      1,570     1,854     2,133    2,452     831   1,264

Doubtful Debts                 756       865      1,572     1,842    2,199        -    680
Other Operating Expenses       331        393       464       533      613   3,031   1,673
Total Operating Expenses    31,890     36,989    43,489    49,710  57,530    5,438  92,521


Consumer Participation       2,992      4,118     5,282     6,295    8,313        -  2,715


Operating Income             8,885     10,371    40,388    48,683  60,721   (5,438) (5,696)


Other Income                      -          -         -        -        -     234   4,235
TA Performance Bonus         (168)      (168)      (168)        -        -        -       -
Technical Assistance         (716)      (460)      (230)         -       -        -       -
Interest Expense             (231)      (635)      (967)   (1,146) (1,257)   (138)   (195)


Net Income Before Tax        7,770      9,108    39,023    47,537   59,464  (5,341) (1,656)


Income Tax                   2,331      2,732    11,707    14,261   17,840        -       -


Net Income After Tax         5,439      6,376    27,316    33,276  41,624   (5,341) (1,656)


Appropriation of Profit
Board Remuneration             155        182       780       951    1,189        -       -
Declared Dividends           1,554      1,822     7,805     9,507   11,893        -       -
Retained Earnings            3,730      4,372    18,731    22,818   28,542  (5,341) (1,656)


Times Interest Earned           35         15        41        42      48       -38      -7
Return on Total Assets         9%         8%       21%       20%     21%    -129%      -1%
Return on Net Worth           13%        14%       43%       39%     37%     100%      -1%
Operating Ratio               78%        78%       52%       51%     49%          -  107%
Provision for Doubtful
Accounts as % of Sales         2%         2%        2%        2%       2%         -     1%




                                          36

                                     Hebron Electric Power Company
                                              Balance Sheet
                                        (Figures in Thousand NIS)
                                   2000      2001       2002      2003          2004         2005
                                  Forecast Forecast Forecast    Forecast  Forecast Actual   Actual
Current Assets
Cash                               13,747    21,627     45,599    74,787  111,019    1,401   15,867
Accounts Receivable                15,527    14,809     23,686    25,232   27,108           148,597
Provision for Doubtful Debts       (1,427)   (2,292)    (3,864)   (5,706)  (7,905)          (13,880)
Net Accounts Receivable            14,100    12,517     19,822    19,526   19,203         - 134,717
Materials in Stores and in Transit                                                            7,093
Other Current Assets                                                                   544      118
Total Current Assets               27,847    34,144     65,421    94,313  130,222    1,946  157,795


Fixed Assets                       32,956    54,981     73,198    83,402   90,470    2,336  100,002
Less: Accumulated Depreciation     (1,766)   (4,836)    (8,979)  (13,713) (18,846)   (136)   (4,483)
Net Fixed Assets                   31,190    50,145     64,219    69,689   71,624    2,200   95,518


Total Assets                       59,037    84,289    129,640   164,002  201,846    4,145  253,313


Current Liabilities
Income Tax                          2,331     2,732     11,707    14,261   17,840         -        -
Electricity Purchases - IEC         1,981     2,186      2,450     2,775    3,242        72  64,338
Board Remuneration                    155        182       780       951    1,189         -        -
Current Portion of LT Debt               -          -         -         -        -        -        -
Declared Dividends                    130        152       650       792      991         -        -
Payables to Hebron Municipality                                                        483   31,021
Other Current Liabilities                                                                78   1,044
Total Current Liabilities           4,597     5,252     15,587    18,779   23,262      632   96,403


Long Term Debt                     11,802    32,387     49,314    58,440   64,086    8,713   11,096
Reserve for Severance Pay             426        700     1,025     1,398    1,827      141        67
Total Liabilities                  16,825    38,339     65,926    78,617   89,175    9,486  107,566


Shareholders Equity
Share Capital                          30         30         30        30       30        - 152,745
Reserves                           31,725    31,089     30,123    28,977   27,720         -        -
Retained Earnings                  10,458    14,830     33,561    56,379   84,922   (5,341)  (6,997)
Total Shareholders Equity          42,213    45,949     63,714    85,386  112,672   (5,341) 145,748


Total Liabilities & Equity         59,038    84,288    129,640   164,003  201,847    4,145  253,313


Debt as a % of Debt plus Equity       22%       41%        44%      41%      36%     258%        7%
Days of Sales in Receivables          150        125       110       100        90        -     645
Current Ratio                         6.06      6.50       4.20      5.02     5.60     3.08     1.64




                                               37

                                  Hebron Electric Power Company
                                  Sources & Applications of Funds
                                      (Figures in Thousand NIS)
                                   2000       2001      2002     2003         2004         2005
                                  Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast   Actual   Actual
Sources of Funds
Operating Income                    8,885     10,371    40,388   48,683  60,721   (5,438)  (5,696)
Depreciation                        1,766       3,070    4,143    4,734    5,133     136    4,347
Plus: Other Income                       -          -         -        -       -     234    4,235
Total Funds from Internal Sources  10,651     13,441    44,531   53,417  65,854   (5,068)   2,887


Funds from External Sources
Share Capital & Reserves                 -      (636)    (966)   (1,146) (1,257)        - 152,745
Long Term Debt                     11,571     20,585    16,927    9,126    5,646   8,713    2,383
Total Funds from External Sources  11,571     19,949    15,961    7,980   4,389    8,713  155,128


Total Sources of Funds             22,222     33,390    60,492   61,397  70,243    3,646  158,014


Applications of Funds


Investment Program                 13,840     22,653    18,615   10,204    7,068   2,336   97,666


Debt Service
Interest                              231         635      967    1,146    1,257     138      195
Principal Repayment                      -          -         -        -       -        -        -
Total Debt Service                    231         635      967    1,146    1,257     138      195


Income Tax                          2,331       2,732   11,707   14,261  17,840         -        -


Dividends                           1,554       1,822    7,805    9,507  11,893         -        -


Board Remuneration                    155         182      780      951    1,189        -        -


Other                               (987)     (1,139)   (1,897)  (2,215) (2,628)   (141)  (13,806)


Change in Working Capital          (1,056)    (1,373)   (1,458)  (1,646) (2,607)     (88)  59,493


Cash Increase (Decrease)            6,154       7,878   23,973   29,189  36,231    1,401   14,465


Cash Beginning of Year              7,593     13,747    21,625   45,598  74,787         -   1,401
Cash End of Year                   13,747     21,625    45,598   74,787  111,018   1,401   15,867


Debt Service Coverage Ratio           36.0       16.9      33.9     34.2    38.2   (36.9)     14.8
Self Financing Ratio                  0.61       0.58      1.45     1.83    3.25   (2.13)   (0.88)




                                            38

                                                Southern Electric Company
                                                     Income Statement
                                                 (Figures in Thousand NIS)
                                              2000      2001       2002         2003             2004       2005
                                             Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast   Actual  Forecast Actual Forecast
Electricity Sales Revenue                     17,564     19,955    22,570  25,736       29  29,733   21,722 22,055


Operating Expenses
Electricity Purchased                         11,371     12,380    13,508  15,112         - 17,056   15,680 22,772
Depreciation                                   1,622      2,753     3,415   3,795      122   3,852     576   2,407
Repairs & Maintenance                            100        305       513     628         -    704      17     202
Severance Pay Expense                            100        158       223     257         -    296        -       -
Wages & Salaries                               1,431      2,250     3,193   3,672      347   4,222   2,377   2,899
General & Administrative Expenses                572        900     1,277   1,469      233   1,689      695  1,950
Doubtful Debts                                   319        362       409     466         -    539        -  1,881
Other Operating Expenses                         143        225       319     367    2,406     422     872     590
Total Operating Expenses                      15,658     19,333    22,857  25,766    3,108  28,780   20,216 32,701


Consumer Participation                         1,423      2,046     2,548   3,046         -  3,821        -  1,104
Other Income                                                                                                 3,056


Operating Income                               3,329      2,668     2,261   3,016   (3,079)  4,774   1,506  (6,486)


Incentive Management Fee                       (840)       (840)    (840)        -        -       -       -       -
Fixed Management Fee                          (3,580)   (2,301)    (1,151)       -        -       -       -       -
Interest Expenses                              (402)       (805)   (1,021) (1,154)      57  (1,154)   (110) (1,642)


Net Income Before Tax                         (1,493)   (1,278)     (751)   1,862   (3,022)  3,620    1,397 (8,129)


Income Tax                                          -          -         -    558         -  1,086        -       -


Net Income After Tax                          (1,493)   (1,278)     (751)   1,304   (3,022)  2,534    1,397 (8,129)


Appropriation of Profit
Board Remuneration                                  -          -         -     37         -     72        -     25
Declared Dividends                                  -          -         -    372         -    724        -       -
Retained Earnings                             (1,493)   (1,278)     (751)     895   (3,022)  1,738    1,397 (8,153)

Times Interest Earned                           (2.7)      (0.6)       0.3     2.6     54.0     4.1    13.7   (3.9)
Return on Total Assets                         -4.1%      -2.3%     -1.1%   1.8%    -112%     3.3%    2.6%  -16.0%
Return on Net Worth                            -10%         -9%       -6%     9%     101%     16%     -88%    84%
Operating Ratio                                 82%        88%       91%     90%   10838%     86%      93%   141%
Provision for Doubtful Accounts as % of Sales                2%        2%     2%       0%      2%       0%     9%




                                                             39

                                                 Southern Electric Company
                                                        Balance Sheet
                                                  (Figures in Thousand NIS)
                                                2000       2001     2002         2003             2004        2005
                                               Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast   Actual Forecast  Actual Forecast
Current Assets
Cash                                             1,834      3,865     6,886  12,321   1,194   18,255   1,721     417
Accounts Receivable                              6,038      5,472     5,078   4,901     168    4,998  48,641  18,800
Provision for Doubtful Debts                     (552)      (914)   (1,323)  (1,789)       -  (2,328)       - (1,881)
Net Accounts Receivable                          5,486      4,558     3,755   3,112     168    2,670  48,641  16,918
Inventory                                                                                10            1,224   4,770
Total Current Assets                             7,320      8,423    10,641  15,433   1,372   20,925  51,586  22,106

Fixed Assets                                    30,545     51,277    62,836  70,441   1,441   71,587   3,258  31,845
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                  (1,622)   (4,375)   (7,790) (11,585)  (122)  (15,437)  (698)  (3,105)
Net Fixed Assets                                28,923     46,902    55,046  58,856   1,319   56,150   2,560  28,740


Total Assets                                    36,243     55,325    65,687  74,289   2,691   77,075  54,146  50,846


Current Liabilities
Trade Payable including Municipalities' Payable       -         -         -        -     56         - 46,018  17,908
Income Tax                                            -         -         -     558        -   1,086        -       -
Electricity Purchases - IEC                        948      1,032     1,126   1,259        -   1,421        - 25,780
Board Remuneration                                    -         -         -      37        -      72        -       -
Declared Dividends                                    -         -         -      31        -      60        -       -
Others                                                                                  175         -  1,049   3,489
Total Current Liabilities                          948      1,032     1,126   1,885     231    2,639  47,068  47,177

ESIMP Loans                                     20,118     40,237    51,031  57,722   5,415   57,722   8,483  13,023
Reserve for Severance Pay                          150        308       531     788      22    1,084     177     328
Total Liabilities                               21,216     41,577    52,688  60,395   5,669   61,445  55,727  60,528


Shareholders Equity
Share Capital                                      150        150       150     150      44      150      44      44
Reserves                                        12,148     12,148    12,148  12,148        -  12,148     140     193
Retained Earnings                                2,730      1,452       702   1,596  (3,022)   3,333  (1,765) (9,919)
Total Shareholders Equity                       15,028     13,750    13,000  13,894 (2,978)   15,631 (1,582)  (9,682)


Total Liabilities & Equity                      36,244     55,327    65,688  74,289   2,691   77,076  54,146  50,846


Debt as a % of Debt plus Equity                   57%        75%       80%     81%    222%      79%    123%    390%
Days of Sales in Receivables                       125        100        82      70   2,135       61     817     311
Current Ratio                                       7.7       8.2       9.5      8.2     5.9      7.9     1.1     0.5




                                                              40

                                         Southern Electric Company
                                       Sources & Applications of Funds
                                          (Figures in Thousand NIS)
                                   2000       2001      2002           2003           2004        2005
                                  Forecast Forecast Forecast Forecast     Actual Forecast Actual Forecast
Sources of Funds
Operating Income                    3,329      2,668     2,261      3,016 (3,079)  4,774  1,506   (6,486)
Depreciation                        1,622      2,753     3,415      3,795    122   3,852    576    2,407
Total Funds from Internal Sources   4,951      5,421     5,676      6,811 (2,958)  8,626  2,082   (4,080)


Funds from External Sources
Share Capital & Reserves                 -          -         -         -     44        -     0        53
Long Term Debt                     20,118     20,119    10,794      6,691  5,415        - 3,068    4,540
Total Funds from External Sources  20,118     20,119    10,794      6,691  5,459        - 3,068    4,593


Total Sources of Funds             25,069     25,540    16,470     13,502  2,502   8,626  5,150      514


Applications of Funds
Investment Program                 24,965     23,873    13,550      7,605  1,441   1,146  1,817   28,587


Debt Service
Interest                              402       805      1,021      1,154    (57)  1,154    110    1,642
Principal Repayment                      -          -         -         -       -       -     -         -
Total Debt Service                    402        805     1,021      1,154    (57)  1,154    110    1,642


Income Tax                               -          -         -       558       -  1,086      -         -


Dividends                                -          -         -       372       -    724      -         -


Board Remuneration                       -          -         -        37       -     72       -      25


Other                               (419)      (520)     (632)      (723)    (22)  (835)  (155)   (2,032)


Change in Working Capital          (1,713)     (650)     (488)      (936)    (54)  (657)  2,851  (26,404)


Cash Increase (Decrease)            1,834      2,032     3,019      5,435  1,194   5,936    527   (1,304)


Cash Beginning of Year                   -     1,834     3,866      6,885       - 12,320  1,194    1,721
Cash End of Year                    1,834      3,866     6,885     12,320  1,194  18,256  1,721      417


Debt Service Coverage Ratio           12.3       6.7        5.6       5.4    51.8    6.5   19.0      -2.5
Self Financing Ratio                  0.27      0.24       0.28      0.42  (1.96)   0.95  (0.44)     2.14




                                                       41

