Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19603-GZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.9 MILLION
TO THE
WEST BANK AND GAZA
FOR AN
ELECTRIC SECTOR INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
August 12, 1999
Infrastructure Development Group
West Bank and Gaza Country Management Unit
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(exchange rate effective January 22, 1999)
Currency unit = New Israeli Shekel (NIS)
NIS I = US$0.25
US$1 = NIS 4.05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DSCR           Debt Service Coverage Ratio
EIB            European Investment Bank
EMP            Environmental Management Plan
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
ESIMP          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project
GWh            Gigawatt Hour
HEPCo          Hebron Electric Power Company
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association (as administrator of the TFGWB)
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IEC            Israel Electric Company
IPP            Independent Power Producer
IS            International Shopping
JDECo          Jerusalem District Electric Company
kWh            Kilowatt Hour
LACI           Loan Administration Change Initiative
LRMC           Long-run Marginal Costs
LSDP           Letter of Sector Development Policy
MEA            Ministry of Environmental Affairs
MIDP           Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
MOLG           Ministry of Local Govermment
MVA            Mega Volt Ampere
NA             Not Applicable
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
NORAD          Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NS             National Shopping
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
PA             Palestinian Authority
PCB            Polychlorinated Biphenyls
PEA            Palestinian Energy Authority
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PLC            Palestinian Legislative Council
PLO            Palestine Liberation Organization
QCBS           Quality-and-Cost-based Selection
RKD            Rust, Kennedy and Donkin
SA             Special Account
SCADA          Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SELCo          Southern Electric Company
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
TA             Technical Assistance
TATF           Technical Assistance Trust Fund
TFCA           Trust Fund Credit Agreement for the ESIMP
TFGWB          Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
WBG            West Bank and Gaza
Vice President:     Kemal Dervi*
Country Director:   Joseph Saba
Sector Director:    Jean-Claude Villiard
Sector Manager:     Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk
Team Leader:        Rama L. Skelton



West Bank and Gaza
Electric Sector Investment and Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Table of Contents
Page No.
Project Financing Data .........................................................1I
A. Project Development Objective .........................................................2
1. Project development objective .........................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ..........................................................2
B. Strategic Context ..........................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy Goal supported by the project ...................2
2. Main sector issues and strategy for development of the power sector ............................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..................................4
C. Project Description Summary and Financing Plan .........................................................4
1. Project components and financing plan ..........................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................                    5
3. Benefits and target population ..........................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................................                      .     .     6
D. Project Rationale ............................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................ 8
2. Major related projects financed by IDA  and/or other development agencies .................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ......................................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................... 10
5. Value added of IDA (TFGWB) support in this project .11
E. Summary Project Analyses ................I 11
1. Economic assessment .........................                                                                           11
2. Financial assessment .........................                                                                          12
3. Fiscal impact assessment .........................                                                                      16
4. Technical assessment .........................                                                                          17
5. Institutional assessment .........................                                                                      18
6. Social and stakeholder aspects ..........                                  .............. 19
7. Environmental assessment                               ........................ 20
8. Participatory approach .........................                                                                       21
F. Sustainability and Risks ........................                             ..21
1. Sustainability .........................                                                                               21
2. Critical risks ......................... 23
3. Possible controversial aspects ..........                                 .............. 24
G. Main Loan Conditions ..........................                                                                              24
1. Effectiveness conditions .........................                                                                     24
2. Other .........................                                                                                        24
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                                                         25
I. Compliance with IDA Policies ........................                                                                         25



Table Of Contents (continued)
Page No.
Attachment
Letter of Power Sector Development Policy and Action Program ...................................... 26
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .33
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description .36
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs, Financing Plan, and Implementation Schedule . 39
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .44
Annex 5.   Financial Summary (HEPCo, JDECo, SELCo) .53
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .68
Table A.   Project Costs and Procurement Arrangements .70
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .71
Table C.  Allocation of Credit Proceeds .72
Annex 7.   SELCo Management Contract Performance Criteria .73
Annex 8.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule .84
Annex 9. Socioeconomic Issues .85
Annex 10. Environmental Management Plan .90
Annex 11.  Statement of Loans and Credits and IFC Investments .96
Annex 12. West Bank and Gaza at a Glance .97
Annex 13. Documents in Project File .99
Map No: IBRD 29383



West Bank and Gaza
Electric Sector Investment and Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
West Bank and Gaza Program
Date: August 13, 1999                               Task Team Leader: Rama Skelton
Country Manager/Director: Joseph Saba               Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: 40506      Sector: Power                Focal Area: Infrastructure
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Credit        Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data                [] Loan       [] Credit       [  Guarantee    [x] Other
TFGWB credit
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ million): 15.0
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     [ x] Single currency, specify: US$
Grace period (years): 10          []   Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed         [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$ million):
Source                                    Local            Foreign          Total
HEPCo/JDECo/SELCo                                                  2.0                1.0            3.0
European Investment Bank (EIB)                                     9.5               28.5           38.0
Government of the Republic of Italy (Italy)                       14.0               21.0           35.0
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB)                         2.5                12.5           15.0
Total               28.0               63.0           91.0
Borrower:  West Bank and Gaza
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies:      Palestinian Energy Authority (PEA); Hebron Electric Power Company (HEPCo; to be
created); Jerusalem District Electric Company (JDECo); Southern Electric Company
(SELCo)
Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/US$m)':       2000       2001       2002    2003    2004
Annual        2.5         5.0        4.0     2.0     1.5
Cumulative        2.5        7.5        11.5    13.5    15.0
Project implementation period: FY2000-2004
Expected effectiveness date: October 30, 1999
Expected closing date: June 30, 2004
Main implementing agencies: PEA; JDECo
Contact Person:          Dr. Omar Kittaneh, General Manager, PEA    Mr. M. Ali Husseini, Chairman of Board
P.O. Box 3591, Albireh, West Bank        and Managing Director, JDECo
Telephone: 972 2-298-6190                P.O. Box B 19225, Jerusalem
Fax       972-2-298-6191
iAll references to IDA in this document mean IDA as administrator for the TFGWB.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 2
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objective:
The development objective of the proposed Electric Sector Investment and Management Project is to
benefit electricity consumers, predominantly households, through sustainable improvements in the quality
of electricity supply. This objective will be achieved through fundamental power sector institutional
reforms (the policy components), implemented in parallel with reinforcement of the power system (the
physical components). In particular, the project will:
(a)  Initiate restructuring of the power sector in accordance with the Palestinian Authority's
(PA's) Letter of Power Sector Development Policy (Attachment). This will involve the
corporatization and commercialization of two new entities: the Hebron Electric Power
Company (HEPCo) and the Southern Electric Company (SELCo)-the latter taking over the
electric utility operations of five small municipalities in the area;
(b)  Strengthen the Palestinian Energy Authority's (PEA's) capacity to put in place power sector
reforms and sector environmental regulations, and to establish an overall institutional
basis-building on international best practices-for the sustainable operation of the power
sector and the safeguarding of consumer interests;
(c) Reinforce the power system in the central and southern regions of the West Bank (areas A
and B only), as the first step in the least-cost power system expansion plan aimed at the
efficient and reliable provision of electricity.
2. Key Performance Indicators:
The key performance indicators to assess progress in carrying out these components are shown in Annex
1. In addition, the management contract for SELCo will establish a set of performance targets for project
implementation. The management contract operator's progress toward these targets is linked, via a
sliding scale, to performance incentive compensation paid to the Operator each year. Annex 7 presents an
indicative set of performance targets for the management contract.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: not applicable (NA)                  Date of latest CAS discussion: NA
The project is fully consistent with the World Bank/IDA assistance strategy presented in the paper
entitled "A World Bank Group Strategy for the West Bank and Gaza," considered by the Board on May
28, 1998. The strategy identifies the infrastructure gap, including in power, as one of the key constraints
to economic growth in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG), and calls for the restoration of infrastructure,
strengthening of institutions, and facilitation of private sector involvement in the economy. The proposed
lproject is formulated in the context of this strategy, and would directly contribute to its fulfillment by:
*    Rapidly improving the quality of supply and access to electricity in the central and
Hebron govemorate regions of WBG;
*    Providing a framework for the efficient implementation of donor-funded capital
investments;
*    Laying the basis for a sustainable institutional structure in the future;
*    Attracting private operators in the management of the sector.
The project would build on the work of the two emergency rehabilitation projects (ERP I and II) and the
Municipal Infrastructure Development Project, and complement ongoing works under the Water and
Sanitation Services Project in Gaza, the Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project and the



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 3
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Bethlehem 2000 Project. The project would play a critical and catalytic role in maintaining donor support
and cofinancing in the electric sector.
2. Main sector issues and strategy for development of the power sector:
Issues
*  The institutional and regulatory framework is weak. Except for JDECo, municipalities have
historically been the major providers of electric utility services in WBG. They are confronting a host
of managerial and financial challenges, an uncertain political mandate, and a complicated and
conflicting overlay of authorizing legislation.
*  The neglect of regulation and control has been costly. Inadequate institutional relationships have
contributed substantially to unclear objectives, suboptimal performance, and inappropriate PA
intervention in the sector. Long neglect has led to pronounced deterioration of existing infrastructure
systems and services, and has hindered economic growth and efforts at rehabilitation. There is art
urgent need to create new institutions, in order to rationalize and consolidate services and to develop
local managerial talent.
*  Tariff designs are out of date. Tariffs fail to respond to market signals and provide inadequate
incentives for efficient energy use. The structure of rates is inadequate; there is no time of day
element, no demand charge, and no power factor penalty. There is also no lifeline tariff block for
low-consumption (lower-income) consumers.
*  Demand will be increasing. Credible forecasts completed under the project have served as the basis
for drafting the distribution, transmission, and generation plans. Load is expected to increase by about
6 percent a year over the period 1995-2005.
*  There is a need for rehabilitation and expansion of the power system. In WBG, almost 20
percent of system demand (some 55 MW) is not being met due to lack of capacity along with severe
voltage drops. It is reasonable to expect that rapid reductions in non-technical loss levels are possible
as commercial discipline is reestablished. Rehabilitation and reinforcement of the low voltage and
medium voltage systems are urgently required yet remain largely unfunded. In addition, emergency
rehabilitation works in the central West Bank and the Hebron govemorate (requiring roughly US$90
million) are thus far unfunded.
Approximately US$330 million for distribution development (including the emergency rehabilitation)
will be needed to meet projected system growth in the coming five years. The long-term expansion
investment program costs for WBG over a I 0-year horizon are in excess of US$600 million.
Strategv
The project is supporting four elements of the PA strategy, as outlined in the Statement of Sector
Development Policy and Action Program (LSDP) issued by the President of the PA and the Chairman of
PEA (see Attachment). Their key policy objectives for the power sector include rehabilitation of existing
networks and services and extension of services to currently unserved communities; separation of
regulatory from commercial functions; encouragement of private participation in sector operations and
development; improving the operating efficiency of distribution utilities; and setting pragmatic tariffs that
will promote the commercial viability of sector enterprises while providing lifeline rates for needy
consumers.
In support of this broad sector strategy, IDA assistance will focus on:
(a)    Rehabilitating existing networks and services, and extending services to unserved
communities;



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 4
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                   Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
(b)     Encouraging maximum private sector participation in sector operations and development,
particularly in generation and distribution, thus minimizing the need for public sector
financial support;
(c)     Establishing autonomous and commercially oriented regional distribution utilities in
Gaza, in the northern West Bank, and in the southern West Bank, by consolidating the
local electricity departments of the municipalities and villages;
(d)     Increasing the operating and technical efficiency of the distribution utilities through end-
use energy efficiency, energy conservation, and better load management.
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
By limiting its focus to the priority issues set out by the PA and the PEA (and which can be addressed in
the five-year implementation period), the proposed operation would lay the foundation for the Palestinian
authorities to achieve their long-term goals for the sector. The creation of independent, shareholder-held
distribution utilities in the Hebron governorate would help to reduce technical and non-technical losses in
the rehabilitated systems; improve consumer metering, billing, and collections; and improve service
delivery to consumers.
C: Project Description Summary and Financing Plan
1. For a detailed description of each component, project financing plan, and implementation schedule
please refer to Annex 2 and Annex 3.
There are three main components of the project, as shown below. The table displays major project
components, costs thereof, and the portion of IDA financing; see Annex 2 for details:
Component                      Category     Cost including   Percent      IDA        Percentage
contingencies    of total    financing    of IDA
(US$m)                    (US$m)      financing
(a) Rehabilitation and upgrading of electric utility  Physical    76.3          83.9         5.2          6.8
distribution facilities in the central West Bank and the
Hebron governorate, and implementation of a
distribution dispatching center (SCADA) for JDECo.
(b) Management contract and technical assistance  Institution     12.2          13.4         7.3         59.8
(TA) to strengthen sector institutions. This component   building
comprises four subcomponents: (i) the three-year cost
(fixed fees and performance incentive) of a performance-
based management contract for SELCo; (ii) TA to JDECo
in areas where its own capacity has potential for
improvement; (iii) TA to help the municipality of Hebron
corporatize and commercialize its electric utility operations
(business plan implementation); and (iv) TA to PEA to
implement the actions specified in the LSDP.
(c) Initial startup and operating expenditures. This  Institution  2.5           2.7         2.5         100.0
component, financed by IDA, would help to strengthen  building
both HEPCo's and SELCo's capacity to operate as
financially sound and technically capable power
distribution companies.
Total          91.0          100.0        15.0         16.5
Details of the project costs, financing plan, and implementation schedule are at Annex 3. Provision for
contingencies (price and physical) total US$12.2 million, or 13.5 percent of the total project cost.
Counterpart funding is US$3 million, just over 3 percent of the total project cost.
On-lending terms: the Borrower, through the PA, would on-lend the EIB, IDA and Italian loans as
follows:



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 5
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electrc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
*     JDECo (US$54.2 million) at six percent interest rate with repayment of principal in 20
years, including three years of grace;
*     HEPCo (US$14.3 million) and SELCo (US$16.6 million) at two percent interest rate with
repayment of principal in 25 years, including ten years of grace;
*     PEA (US$2 million), IDA credit would be on-lent on a grant basis.
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
(a)   Commercialization of utility management, including cost recovery via consolidation of the
six largest municipal electricity departments in the Hebron governorate of the West Bank;
(b)  Preparatory engineering and legal work to bring non-electrified regions of the Hebron
governorate into the SELCo service franchise;
(c)   Corporatization and phased introduction of private sector operators into electricity
distribution;
(d)   Strengthening of JDECo as a corporate entity and improvement of its management effective-
ness;
(e)   Drafting of enabling legislation (new  electricity law); establishment of arms-length
regulation of the sector, and of new environmental regulations.
3. Benefits and Target Population:
The project would restore the quality and quantity of utility-grade electric service across the central and
southern regions of the West Bank, to jump start the economy and create an enabling environment for
private participation in development of the sector. The ultimate project beneficiaries would be Palestinian
electricity consumers in the region. Principal project benefits (not all of which are quantifiable) would
include:
(a)  An upgrade in availability and quality of service for some 150,000 connected Palestinian
customers (households and enterprises)-a population of approximately 1 million.
Rehabilitation would provide for increased levels of reliability (fewer outages, with improved
response time to return service following interruptions, service voltage within norms), and
meet the demand growth anticipated over the implementation period. It would also form the
basis for much-needed power system expansion within a least-cost system development
program;
(b)  An increase in distribution efficiency. Technical and non-technical power losses, which
currently are as high as 20 percent, would be reduced to the levels found in well-managed
systems. Efficiency gains would also be achieved by installing reactive capacity on distribution
feeders to correct for low power factors and avoid the power-factor penalty imposed by the
bulk power supplier;
(c)   The creation of sufficient institutional capacity to plan subsequent expansions, including the
ability of sector institutions to finance a substantial portion of sector needs from their own
internal cash-generating resources;
(d)  A better base for rural electrification (where grid extensions are economically justifiable), as
a result of the strengthened networks and the creation of requisite institutional capacity;
(e)  A reduced accident risk for the population at large, as well as for utility employees in the
rehabilitated system;
(f)   Minimization of air pollution through the replacement of less efficient, unsightly, and more
polluting small-scale diesel generators;
(g)  Possibly an improved bargaining position for the distribution utilities in negotiations for
wholesale bulk power purchases, resulting in lower-cost imports.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 6
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
(a)   Each responsible agency shall be accountable for the proper implementation, monitoring,
and reporting of progress for those project components (see detailed project description,
Annex 2; financing plan, and project implementation schedule, Annex 3) under its purview.
Where implementation capacity is deemed insufficient, this shall be supplemented by
technical assistance and/or a performance-based management contract, as follows:
(i)  JDECo  (electric system  distribution rehabilitation, distribution expansion,
corporate restructuring, institutional strengthening). A project implementation
unit (PIJ) shall be set up within its organizational structure. The PIU will be
headed and managed under a technical assistance consultancy for the four-year
period of project execution. Full line authority for implementation of the
components shall be given to the PIU. The PIU will be responsible for the overall
coordination and day-to-day management of the JDECo component of the
project, both physical and institutional elements. In addition, the PIU will be
responsible for coordinating annual project reviews, preparing and submitting
quarterly project progress reports, and preparing disbursement applications;
(ii)  SELCo (electric system distribution rehabilitation, putting in place and initial
operation of a new shareholder-held distribution utility organization).
Implementation of this component of the project shall be executed under a
performance-based management contract, acceptable to the Administrator.
Disbursements shall begin only after such contract, acceptable to the donors, is
let;
(iii)  HEPCo (electric utility distribution rehabilitation, putting in place and operating
a new shareholder-held distribution utility organization). Implementation will
proceed under the guidance of the new board of directors nominated by the city
of Hebron, and duly supported by a technical assistance (TA) service contract. A
detailed business plan shall be presented by HEPCo, and agreed to by the project
donors, prior to disbursements being initiated under the project;
(iv)  PEA (TA consultancies to modernize and reform the power sector's legal and
regulatory and environmental monitoring framework). The PEA shall be
responsible for the execution of this component.
(b)  Project oversight and  overall coordination  (guidance  on  the  application  and
implementation of the new sector policies). General project oversight shall be the
responsibility of the steering committee, composed of representatives of the Ministry of
Finance, PEA, Ministry of Local Government (MoLG), JDECo, SELCo, and HEPCo.
Monthly progress reports shall be prepared under the general guidance of the PIU to be
established within JDECo, which shall act as the secretariat to the steering committee.
(c)   Financial management (accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements). Each
year the borrower will carry out a financial audit of the above entities by independent
auditor(s) acceptable to the administrator of the TFGWB, and furnish such audits to IDA as
soon as available but no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. Project
monitoring reports, following Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) reporting
requirements, shall be submitted to IDA. During the project launch mission-to be
conducted before project effectiveness-verification of LACI compatibility will be carried



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 7
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
out. JDECo is currently considered to have appropriate financial management system in
place (adequate internal controls, auditing, accounting policies and practices, staffing,
project accounting capability, external auditing by international firm, clean audit reports). A
management letter prepared by the external auditors of JDECo shall be submitted to IDA to
buttress this judgment prior to initiation of LACI disbursements. LACI disbursement.
activities shall not commence until the full adequacy of the financial management systems
can be certified by IDA. Detailed terms of reference (TORs) for this assessment are
included in the project file. This work shall be completed by no later than February 2000.
Neither HEPCo (which has yet to be created) nor SELCo (which has been created but is not
yet operational) are LACI compatible. For both of these entities, new financial management
systems, staffing, and training are to be provided either under the business plan (HEPCo) or
by the system operator to be retained under the management contract (SELCo).
PEA (created in 1995), on the other hand, has already developed an initial internal set of
project controls and does have a limited project accounting, auditing, monitoring, and
reporting capability, since it has been implementing various donor-funded packages (EU,
NORAD, UNDP, Czech Republic, Belgium). This limited capability is deemed adequate to
monitor the three to four consultancy service contracts that the PEA will implement under
the project. Nonetheless, a management letter issued by PEA's external auditors relative to
LACI compatibility shall be submitted to IDA, as stated above for JDECo. The financial
management system assessment shall be completed in accordance with the timing and the
TORs noted above for JDECo.
(d)  Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
(i)   Supervision and annual reviews.  Supervision by IDA would focus on the
performance indicators shown in Annex 1, which were agreed upon at
negotiations.  In addition to two supervision missions per year by IDA
headquarters staff, staff from the local Resident Mission would monitor the
progress of the project on a regular basis during the implementation period.
(ii)  Midterm review. A midterm review would be conducted at the end of the second
year of project implementation. The borrower would submit a complete midterm
progress report to the administrator at least four months prior to the review,
explaining activities and progress on each component. The borrower has agreed
that if progress has not been achieved according to the performance indicators,
changes in approach, staffing, and technical assistance will be undertaken at the
midterm review and that components may be removed from the project.
(iii)  Evaluation of SELCo's management contract. The performance of the
management contractor would be assessed annually by an independent auditor to
determine the magnitude of incentive payments, if any.
(iv)  An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared and submitted to
IDA within six months of the closing date of the TFGWG Credit.
(e)  Network Rehabilitation Implementation. Implementation of the distribution network
rehabilitation shall proceed as follows: (i) JDECo shall retain a consulting firm with proven
project management experience in similar activities; (ii) SELCO activities related to
implementation of the distribution rehabilitation component shall be included as a discrete
management delivery item within the scope of the performance-based management contract;
(iii) HEPCo shall retain the services two electric utility distribution utility engineers,
following the practices used under the NORAD-funded rehabilitation work done in Gaza and



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 8
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electnc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
in the Nablus region. HEPCo's business plan (to be agreed upon) shall provide detailed
TORs for this assignment. Given the decentralized nature of the distribution works, use will
be made, where practical, of geographically distributed supply-and-erect turnkey contract
packages.
D: Project Rationale
i'. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection:
While there are no viable alternatives to the urgent rehabilitation work, several alternatives were
considered with respect to the institutional component (creation of SELCo with management assistance,
and the corporatization of the Hebron Municipal Electrical Department into HEPCo). These alternatives
were:
(a)  Implementation of the physical component without the requirement of establishing
shareholder-held distribution companies. While efficiency gains would result from the
reduction of technical and non-technical losses, the lack of an appropriate long-term
corporate structure for the sector would mean that the sustainability of operations could not
be ensured. Increased cash flows generated by the physical improvements would be quickly
subsumed into the general coffers of the municipalities. Thus they would probably not be
available to ensure debt repayment or, more importantly, the financial sustainability of the
electric sector.
(b)  The original implementation arrangements for the establishment of SELCo envisaged the use
of the local utility management capacity existing within the West Bank (i.e., the use of
JDECo as the management contractor, with JDECo strengthened through targeted technical
assistance). This solution was believed to make good economic use of existing local utility
management capacity. However, the newly named board of directors of SELCo (mayors of
the constituent shareholder towns) rejected the approach of a sole-sourced contract with this
firm. Instead, the plan now is to recruit a management contractor using commercial
procedures (Bank's Guidelines).
(c) A combined program for the northern and southern West Bank, with a management contract
to serve both regions, could have been a cost-effective option. However, there was clear
resistance to this solution by the PEA, and coordination with the Norwegian Agency for
Development Corporation (NORAD) rehabilitation program in the North would
consequently have been more difficult.
(d)  Merger of the entire Hebron governorate distribution system with another utility: the power
market in the West Bank is relatively small, and a structure with one additional distribution
utility (Northern Electric Utility, in addition to the existing JDECo, with the entire Hebron
governorate served by either of them) may be an efficient structure. However, the project
follows the Palestinian preference for an independent southern utility. Involving JDECo in
the management of SELCo remains an option, as is the further consolidation of distribution
service territories in the West Bank. Initially, the merger between SELCo and the soon-to-
be-created HEPCo is anticipated to take place during the period of project implementation,
provided that this is warranted by the performance of these two new utilities. The chosen
solution minimizes the political risks that an immediate merger with the Jerusalem-based
JDECo would have imposed. A solution involving the northern municipalities would have
led to delays, given the slower pace of institutional reform there.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 9
Country: West Bank and Gaza                            Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
(e)   Further rebundling to create a fully vertically and horizontally integrated electricity
company: a fully integrated system would be incompatible with IDA policy guidelines for
lending in the power sector. International experience clearly shows the advantage of vertical
and horizontal separation.
(f)   Downsizing the operation with focus solely on the central West Bank (JDECo) distribution
system. This option was rejected, since mobilization of donor funding for the project would
have been severely reduced, and expansion of power to the already lagging Hebron
govemorate would have been deferred by several years.
If this project is implemented as planned, a follow-on project could support: (i) continuation of the sector
reform program begun under the current project; (ii) possibly an independent power producer (IPP)
operation in the Gaza area, following establishment of an acceptable regulatory framework; and (iii)
investment in the expansion of the distribution facilities of the new distribution companies. Progress in
implementation of the current project, and particularly of the reform program, would be a prerequisite for
the processing of a future TFGWB power project.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by IDA and/or Other Development Agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                  Project                     Latest Project Status Report
(Bank Group fina ced projects only)
IDA projects                                               Implementation        Development
Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Water (ongoing)       TFGWB, Southern Area Water and              S                   S
Sanitation Improvement Project
Water (ongoing)       TFGWB, Water and Sanitation                 S                   S
Services Project in Gaza
Urban (ongoing)       TFGWB, Municipal Infrastructure             S                   S
Development Project
Power (planned)       IFC, Gaza Independent Power          Under preparation    Under preparation
Project
Other development
agencies
Power (completed)     NORAD, Electric Sector                    NA*                  NA
Rehabilitation in Gaza
Power (ongoing)       NORAD, Electric Sector Rehab. In          NA*                  NA
Northern West Bank
Power (ongoing)       Belgium, Czech Republic and other         NA*                  NA
donors, rural electrification projects
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
* Project implementation progress has been satisfactory; see Section E(4) below.
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design:
(a)   Need to combine rehabilitation work with institutional reform to ensure sustainability: the
proposed operation has a strong institutional component, which in turn is embedded in an
overall sector development strategy (outlined in the LSDP);
(b)   Risk of delays to fundamental sector reform: the LSDP was promulgated at the presidential
level, and SELCo has been registered with the Ministry of Trade and the Economy as a
utility distribution company. However, registration of HEPCo as a shareholder-owned
company under the Companies Law remains incomplete. It is important to maintain a



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 10
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
certain flexibility with respect to issues related to sector reforms. The Electric Sector
Investment and Management Project is not a blueprint investment project. Project legal
documents therefore have included a disbursement conditionality for the Hebron project
component.
(c)  Need to secure support of local municipalities, which up to now remain responsible for
electricity supply. Project preparation has included workshops and consultations with the
municipalities. Such efforts at building trust among sector institutions need to be continued
through the participation by each entity in the project steering committee. Every effort shall
be made to achieve early successes during project implementation, as there is a risk of
municipalities feeling they have been compelled by the national government to enter into a
corporate structure with which they are not fully comfortable.
(d)  Importance of using existing municipal capacity to the maximum extent possible, and to
involve the local private sector.
(e)  Deep reforms depend on a positive political environment. The Bank Group's experience in
the power sectors of other countries, buttressed by OED findings, clearly shows that making
regulation armn's length, enforcing cost-reflective pricing, unbundling assets, and divestiture
require strong local champions with a political mandate and a sound road map. The mandate
and road map come easier when incomes are high and the market is dominated by industrial
users concerned about the reliability and competitiveness of the energy supply.
(f)   The political economy of reform has received too little attention. Its complexity is often
overrated by politicians but underrated by their technical advisers. To succeed, reform
should be swift and its champions put in strategic places at the outset. The public should be
well informed and there should be careful negotiations with the various stakeholders.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership:
(a)   LSDP signed by the President of the PA and the Chairman of the PEA on July 6, 1997 (see
Attachment). Upfront action completed;
(b)  Memorandum of Understanding among PEA, NORAD, and IDA on cooperation in the
development of the power sector signed on June 26, 1997;
(c)  Creation of SELCo: on December 14, 1998, SELCo was registered as a company under the
Companies Law, under registration number 562439422. Upfront action completed;
(d)  SELCo concluded a shareholders' agreement December 16, 1998, which, inter alia, names
members and chairperson of its board (latter has now been installed). The agreement
provides for a provisional allocation of shares among shareholders (municipality that had
been providing their own power) pending completion of the valuation of assets currently
being prepared under the Arthur Anderson consultancy contract. Upfront action completed;
(e)  MoLG named as an initial shareholder in SELCo to conserve a place within SELCo for the
smaller municipalities in the Hebron govemorate not currently included within the initial
group of shareholders. Upfront action completed;
(f)   Creation and incorporation of HEPCo: a municipal council resolution was passed to proceed
with the registration of HEPCo and to develop its first corporate business plan;
(g)  Rehabilitation of the distribution system, as prepared under the project, has been funded
under NORAD, and such works have already been successfully implemented in Gaza and
are underway in the Nablus region of the West Bank;
(h)  JDECo and the PEA have approved the terms proposed for their components under the
project; see Agreed Minutes: Technical Discussions, April 22, 1999 (in project file);



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page  1I
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
(i)   On April 27, 1999 the Minister of Finance, after consultation with the Chairman of the PEA
and the PA Council of Ministers, formally approved the negotiated Trust Fund Credit
Agreement (TFCA);
(j)   On June 18, 1999 PEA signed an agreement with the first IPP in the WBG; the consortium
plans to build a 136-MW combined cycle power plant south of the city of Gaza, at an
expected cost of US$140 million.
5. Value Added of IDA (TFGWB) Support in this Project:
The financial contribution of the TFGWB to overall project costs amounts to 16 percent; i.e., the IDA
resources have been leveraged by a 6.1 multiple. There is considerable donor interest in funding the
rehabilitation work, provided that an acceptable institutional framework is put in place. IDA's
contribution to the project is, therefore, critical in two respects:
(a)    Aid coordination and mobilization: The project cofinanciers have clearly stated their wish
to work under an IDA umbrella; hence, IDA has taken the lead in securing and
coordinating funding for the rehabilitation work, which is based on an earlier rehabilitation
master plan funded by the Technical Assistance Trust Fund (TATF).
(b)   Institutional component: Continued IDA dialogue with the PA on institutional issues has
resulted in an effective, private-sector oriented LSDP with an associated action program.
The IDA-financed institutional component of the project is a core element in the
fulfillment of the LSDP. Experience has shown that institutional reforn is crucial for the
success and sustainability of efficiency gains achieved under such operations, and it is
seen by cofinanciers as a precondition of their involvement.
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 13)
1. Economic Assessment (supported by Annex 4)
(a)  Electric power market
Existing. The proposed rehabilitation of the power distribution systems in the central and
southern regions of the West Bank covers parts of the electric power markets served by
JDECo, and parts of the isolated power distribution grids in the governorate of Hebron. The
market served by JDECo accounts for approximately 80 percent of the electricity market in
this region. Net electricity consumption (excluding distribution losses) in the JDECo service
area increased from about 290 GWh in 1990 to about 581 GWh in 1998, an average growth
rate of 9.1 percent. Consumption in the Hebron govemorate grew about the same amount
over the period. Electricity imports from Israel Electric Company (IEC) to meet
consumption in the JDECo area also grew at about the same rate. In addition to the imports
from IEC, the market is also served by a number of small diesel generating units owned by
private individuals (auto-generation).
Future electricity demand. Growth is projected at 5 to 6 percent per year in the project area,
based on population growth, extension of service to new consumers, and increases in
household consumption, in line with improvements in living standards. The growth in
demand is to be met by reduction in distribution losses and additional imports from the EEC
system, as well as from auto-generation, but imports will be lower than they would have
been without the project. In addition, improvements in metering, billing, and collection
attributable to the project will lead to reduction in non-technical losses and conservation,
further reducing the need for imports. Furthermore, the reliability of supply would improve.
All of these factors justify the need for the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 12
Country: West Bank and Gaza                         Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
(b)  Least-cost justification. The proposed project was compared with self-generation from
small diesel units as the next best alternative to meeting incremental demand in the project
area. The analysis compared the costs associated with the project to the economic cost of
auto-generation. The costs of the project comprise capital, fixed operation and maintenance,
and incremental electricity imports from IEC; and the cost of the alternative comprise
capital, fixed operation and maintenance, and fuel costs of the diesel generating plants. The
results, summarized in the table below, confirm the project as the least-cost means of
meeting the forecast incremental demand. Details are provided in Annex 4.
Summary Results of Least-cost Analysis
(net present value, US$ million
@10 percent              @12 percent
_  _   discount rate             discount rate
Proposed project                190.5                     164.6
Self-generation                 287.2                     236.5
(c)  Economic rate of return. The economic rate of return (ERR) on the project is estimated to
be about 23.0 percent, based on comparison of the quantifiable costs and benefits of the
project over the expected 20-year life of the physical works. The costs are as discussed
above. The quantifiable benefits comprise: savings in technical losses, reduction in power
factor penalty payments to IEC, and incremental electricity sales due to increased capacity of
the distribution system as a result of the upgrading achieved under the rehabilitation
program. The savings in losses and incremental sales were valued at the cost of supply from
diesel generation at US150/kWh, as a reflection of consumers' willingness to pay for
electricity, as compared to the prevailing average electricity tariff of about US11¢ to
1 2¢/kWh.
(d)   Sensitivity analysis. A sensitivity analysis was carried out to test the robustness of the
project's economics to changes in key parameters that could affect project outcome. The
parameters are: (i) low and high load growth scenarios; (ii) supply with and without
rehabilitation; (iii) variation in the willingness to pay (US 130-180/kWh); (iv) the prevailing
average electricity price; and (v) a rebate in the bulk supply price from IEC. For all these
cases, the ERR ranges from about 17 to 25 percent, significantly above the 10 percent
estimated opportunity cost of capital in the WBG. Details of the analysis are provided in
Annex 4.
2. Financial Assessment of Project Entities-JDECo, SELCo, HEPCo (see Annex S for assumptions and
proformafinancial statements):
(a) JDECo
Past performance and present financial position. JDECo, a shareholder-held company established
shortly after the First World War, is the major supplier of electricity in the WBG. It serves approximately
105,000 consumers (as of end 1998) in the cities, towns, and many smaller communities of East
Jerusalem, Jericho, Bethlehem, Ramalah, and El Bireh. The latest audited figures are for 1998; the outside
auditors expressed a clean opinion on JDECo's financial statements. Debt financing has been constrained
and represented only 3 percent of long-term capitalization at end 1998. In the six years since the interim
agreement between the State of Israel and the PLO, revenues from the sale of electricity have consistently
increased, as has liquidity. Nonetheless, there is room for improvement in its commercial operations;
e.g., technical and non-technical losses, at 19 percent, were more than twice the level expected for a well-



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 13
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electdc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
run power utility; and the average age of its accounts receivable, 143 days, has substantial margin for
improvement.
Average tariff levels in 1998 yielded NIS 0.35/kWh (US8.70/kWh), above the estimated LRMC of about
US6.7¢/kWh. (The LRMC estimate is a provisional figure, and reflects marginal costs including
generation, transmission, and distribution. The generation component of the LRMC reflects the peaker
method, whereby the cost of a reasonably sized peaking unit, including a 25 percent reserve margin, is
used to estimate the capacity costs at the generation level.) Tariff levels have made it possible for JDECo
to achieve reasonable financial performance levels and to fully recover the costs of purchased power
(purchased from the IEC at a flat rate of US6¢/kWh), as well as its operating costs and investments in
distribution. The after-tax return in 1998 on year-end shareholder equity was 14 percent. JDECo paid
dividends in 1996-1998.
Financialforecasts 1999-2004. Based on the base case financial forecast done under a conservative set
of assumptions, outlined in Annex 5, JDECo's financial position is projected to remain stable or improve
each year of the forecasted period. Key assumptions include: (i) a conservative growth rate in kWh sales
of 4 percent a year, instead of the robust growth experienced in recent years (e.g., an average of 9.1
percent per year over the period 1990-98); (ii) JDECo's own electricity price increases (as well as
increases in the price of power purchased wholesale from the IEC) limited to 6 percent a year from year
2000 onward; i.e., 2 percent below the CPI; (iii) JDECo's share of the project (US$57.2 million) to be
debt financed by a 20-year loan, with three years of grace for the repayment of principle, at an interest
rate of 6 percent; (iv) improvements in commercial operations, with technical and non-technical losses
reduced to 9 percent by the end of the forecasted period. The company is thus expected to remain in a
position to maintain or increase its dividend payout during the forecasted period; and its capital structure
at end-2004 is expected to remain relatively robust (48 percent debt/52 percent equity), with debt service
coverage 2.6 times. As a result of the rehabilitation program and improvements in management
organization, JDECo is thus forecast to be able to finance, from internal cash sources, a reasonable
percentage (at least 25 percent) of the future expansion of its power system.
Sensitivity analysis. The above financial forecast was tested under various tariff regulatory models and
found to be robust. For example, even if rate relief were limited to half the rate of inflation used in the
base case ( i.e., consumer price index increases at 8% p.a., however tariff (and purchase power ) price
increases are limited to 4%), then even under these circumstances, JDECo would still end the forecast
period in year 2004 able to meet its covenant for long-term debt (DSCR at 2.4 times would be well above
the 1.5 times covenant), would recover slightly more than its operating costs from revenues (operating
ratio at 97%), and it would be able to contribute from internal funds to its construction program. Granted
however, that in this instance its financial health would be weakened i.e., after tax return on total assets
would drop to 5%, and be below its cost of capital.
Financial covenants. Because of the uncertain regulatory framework, the on-lending agreement for the
JDECo loan shall provide for three financial covenants: (i) a minimum debt service coverage ratio of at
least 1.5 times before JDECo may contract any new debt; (ii) a minimum current ratio of 1.5 times to
ensure adequacy of working capital and short-term liquidity; and (iii) a limitation on dividend payout,
requiring JDECo to obtain the prior approval of IDA in case payment of the dividend would cause the
current ratio to fall below 1.5 times. Given JDECo's past prudent management practices, and the results
of the above financial forecasts done under a conservative set of key economic parameters, it is expected
that JDECo would not find compliance burdensome.
(b) SELCo
Pro forma financial forecasts 2000-2004. The firm was registered as a shareholder-held company in
December 1998 but has not yet started operations. Initial operations would consist of the merger of the
municipal electric departments and service areas of five municipalities (the shareholders) in the Hebron
govemorate: Beit-Omar, Dura, Halhul, Thahriah, and Yata. The accounts for these municipalities are not



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 14
Country: West Bank and Gaza                           Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
maintained according to sound accounting principles; i.e., a cash system is used instead of accrual
accounting, and the financial statements are not audited. In the past, the municipalities made no
connection between revenues received from electric sales and cost of supply. Cost is budgeted and
revenues go straight into the communal purse, where they are regarded as fungible. The municipalities
thus have had little reason to collect the normal statistical data that a utility would require for medium-
term planning. This factor will continue to cause problems until resolved under the proposed project.
Thus figures should be viewed as indicative only.
The population served totals about 150,000, with 15,500 electric consumers (households and enterprises).
'Year 2000 sales are estimated at 38.2 GWh, with billings of NIS 19 million. The forecast reflects
information collected from the five municipalities under a consultancy contract with Arthur Anderson
(funded by IDA under the ongoing Municipal Infrastructure Development Project).
rhe base case financial forecast reflects the following key assumptions: (i) an average annual growth of
9 percent in electricity sales. This rate may appear high when compared to JDECo's, but it reflects the
proportionately higher gains expected under the project, including additional kWh sales (billings)
resulting from improvements in commercial operations; i.e., the reduction in non-technical losses (see
item (vi) below) as well as the expansion of the SELCo system into areas not currently served; (ii)
SELCo's own electricity prices (and its wholesale power purchases from IEC) limited to an increase of 6
percent a year; i.e., 2 percent below the CPI; (iii) SELCo's share of the project is US$17 million), to be
debt financed by a 25-year loan, with 10 years of grace for the repayment of principal and an interest rate
of 2 percent on outstanding balances; (iv) SELCo enters into a performance-based management contract
to start its operations, with incentive payments to the operator tied to improvements in commercial
operations (see Annex 7); (v) the cost of the management contract (fixed fees and incentive payments) is
estimated at US$2.2 million and, for prudent management purposes, these costs are not capitalized but are
stated as income expense items in the year they are incurred; (vi) SELCo's commercial operations would
improve; i.e., technical and non-technical losses would be gradually reduced from an initial 20 percent in
year 2000 to 11 percent at the end of the forecast period; and (vii) dividend payout begins once steady
state is achieved; i.e., after the third year of operation.
I'he tariff level used as a basis for the projections (NIS 0.469/kWh, or US11.6¢/kWh) reflects the
weighted average rate actually used by SELCo municipalities in 1999. The range in tariff levels used by
these municipalities in 1999 varied from a low of NIS 0.35/kWh for commercial customers in Yatta, to a
high of NIS 0.48/kWh for residential consumers in Dura. Tariffs are near double the estimated LRMC
(see JDECo above). The structure of tariffs is inadequate-it reflects a single energy rate, as does IEC's
tariff. There is no time of day or demand element, and no power factor penanty-see also discussion
under Section B-2 above. The projections reflect a 2 percent per year real reduction in tariffs for SELCo
consumers over the forecast period.
T'he forecast under the above set of assumptions shows that the company's operating efficiency would
improve and it would be financially viable during the entire forecasted period. Its capital structure at the
end of the forecast period would be relatively highly levered (debt as a proportion of permanent
capitalization at 77 percent) but would be supported by a robust debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of
more than 7 times. Working capital would increase by more than three times, with strong liquidity
(current ratio of slightly more than 7 times, with the cash component at more than 6 times), which could
support a heavier dividend payout than that envisaged in the forecast. Even though rate levels would have
been reduced in real terms, nonetheless all operating costs (including cost of the management contract)
would be recovered from revenues, and there would also be strong internal cash generation from
operations to support future expansion of the company. The self-financing ratio at the end of the forecast
period (at 105 percent) is abnormally high because the investment program used in the forecast reflects
only the impacts of the project and does not yet reflect subsequent investments needed to expand the
capacity of SELCo's power system.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 15
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Sensitivity analysis. As done for JDECo (above) the SELCo financial forecast was tested under various
tariff regulatory models and found to be robust. For example, even if rate relief were limited to half the
rate of inflation used in the base case ( i.e., consumer price index increase maintained at 8% p.a., with
tariff increases (and purchase power price) increases limited to 4% p.a.), then even under these
circumstances, SELCo would still end the forecast period (year 2004) in relatively good health: would
recover more than its operating costs from revenues (operating ratio at 86%), and it would be able to
contribute from internal funds to its construction program. Granted however, that in this instance its
financial health would be weakened i.e., after tax return on total assets would drop to 3.3%, and be below
its cost of capital.
Financial covenants. Because of the startup nature of the new company and the uncertain baseline data,
other than the standard general conditions applicable under the TFCA, no specific financial covenants are
proposed. However, no disbursements to SELCo will take place until and unless a management contract
acceptable to IDA has been executed.
(c) HEPCo
Pro forma fnancial forecasts 2000-2004. The company, to be created from the municipal electric
department of Hebron, has yet to be formed. It will be larger than SELCo; at end 1998 Hebron had
approximately 22,000 customers (6,500 more than SELCo) within a similar size but more urban
population base of 150,000. Total sales in year 2000 are estimated at 78.4 GWh (2 times the level of
SELCo), with revenues (excluding VAT) of approximately NIS 40 million. As with SELCo, HEPCo's
accounts are not maintained on sound accounting principles, and Hebron has also regarded electricity
provision as a revenue-raising activity. Thus HEPCo, too, has had little reason to collect the normal
statistical data that a utility would require for medium-term planning. Forecast figures should therefore be
viewed as indicative only.
A base case financial forecast was prepared reflecting the same key assumptions as for SELCo, except for
the following: (i) the same growth in customer count was used and relative increase in kWh billings
resulting from improvements in commercial operation; however, because of different specific
consumption by the urban customer category, a slightly higher overall rate of increase results for
electricity sales (10 percent for HEPCo versus 9 percent for SELCo);(ii)HEPCo's share of the project is
US$14.9 million; (iii) as establishing BEPCo would be less complex than establishing SELCo, it was
agreed to use a technical assistance service contract rather than a management contract to start operations;
(iv) the cost of the TA service contract (fixed fees and incentive payments) totals US$0.5 million, and
costs would be stated as income statement expense items in the year they are- incurred; (v) HEPCo's
commercial operations would improve; i.e., technical, and non-technical losses would be gradually
reduced from an initial 20 percent in year 2000 to 9 percent at the end of the forecasted period; (vi)
because of HEPCo's relatively stronger initial financial position, dividend payout would start from the
first year of operation; and (vii) tariff levels used as a basis for the projections (NIS 0.48/kWh or
US11 .9¢/kWh) reflect the weighted average rate actually used by the Hebron utility in 1998.
The forecast under the above set of assumptions shows that the company's operating efficiency would
improve and that it would be financially viable during the entire forecasted period. Capital structure at the
end of the forecasted period would be appropriately leveraged for an operating power utility (debt as a
percentage of permanent capitalization at 36 percent in year 2004), and would be supported by a robust
DSCR of more than 38 times. Working capital would increase by more than two times, with strong
liquidity (current ratio of nearly 6 times, with the cash component of this at near 5 times), which could
support a heavier dividend payout than that envisaged in the forecast. Even though rate levels would have
been reduced in real terms, nonetheless all operating costs (including cost of the technical assistance
consultancy contract) would be recovered from revenues. There would also be strong internal cash
generation from operations to support future expansion of the company. As with SELCo, the self-
financing ratio at the end of the forecasted period, at 325 percent, is abnormally high, as the investment



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 16
C ountry: West Bank and Gaza                         Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
program used in the forecast reflects only the impact of the project and does not reflect subsequent
investments needed to expand the capacity of the power system.
Sensitivity analysis. As done for SELCo (above) the HEPCo financial forecast was tested under various
tariff regulatory models and found to be robust. Under the same change case as above, HEPCo would end
the forecast period (year 2004) in good health: would recover more than its operating costs from
revenues (operating ratio at 73%), would be able to contribute from internal funds to its construction
program, and while its after tax return on total assets would drop, to 9%, it would be near its cost of
capital.
Financial covenants. Because of the start-up nature of the new company and the uncertain baseline data,
other than the standard general conditions applicable under the TCFA, no specific financial covenants are
proposed. However, no disbursements would take place until and unless HEPCo has submitted for review
by the project donors, and they deem acceptable, a corporate business plan which would, inter alia, detail
operating and revenue budgets, investment plans, and an initial audited set of financial statements for the
new company. Annual disbursements under the credit would likewise be reviewed and measured against
the agreed benchmarks in the business plan.
3. Fiscal Impact Assessment.
The sale of electricity is currently a main source of income for most municipalities. Because incomes
from electricity are being used for other purposes, the power distribution systems are not being
adequately maintained, and have deteriorated inexorably. This situation is unsustainable and could lead
to the distribution system's inability to serve utility demand in the future. In addition, it is recognized
that municipalities will not be able, on their own and in the near future, to undertake the investments
required to maintain and expand the electric distribution system to meet the growing demand for
reliable electricity supplies. A main goal of the project is to provide for a technically efficient and
financially sustainable sector to meet demand in an economic manner which will also bring additional
resources to the municipalities, and to the national government through taxes on utility income.
However, it will take time for the new distribution utilities to reach a level of operations which will
permit the payment of dividends sufficient to meet the needs of the owning municipalities, without
harming the financial viability of the company. Thus, in the short- to medium-term, the municipalities
will suffer short-falls in income from their former electric operations.
In order to mitigate such financial stress, a number of alternatives were discussed, bearing in mind that
the municipalities at present have limited flexibility with respect to raising revenues from other sources.
The ongoing Public Expenditure Review examines, in its chapter on Local Government and Utility
Reform, a number of alternative instruments which could, over time, compensate for reduced revenues
fiom utilities, e.g.: develop the currently underutilized property tax; building licenses (cum development
taxes); a utility tax; a centrally-funded equalization fund; a temporary utility surcharge; municipal
franchise fees; taxes; rents levied on utilities; temporary support from the national govemnment. Many of
these actions, however, cannot be undertaken unilaterally by the municipalities, requiring action by the
central government and, in some cases, the legislature. Donors, including IDA, are working closely with
the PA to support such changes. As an example, the proposed Financial Sector Development Project
will, inter alia, help strengthen land registration and titling, which are prerequisites for significantly
increasing revenues from the property tax. In addition, IDA is assisting the municipalities to improve
their financial management via its involvement in the Municipal Infrastructure and Development Projects
(TF 43339 and TF 58683).
Thus, since many of these revenue options cannot be implemented in the short term, tangible short-term
measures need to be developed. The project design has provided for a number of measures to improve
the cash generation capability of the new operating utilities, among which: highly concessionary costs
of finance; funding for initial start-up and operating expenditures; and funding for consultancy
services needed during startup. While this helps the liquidity position of the new utilities in their start-



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 17
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electrc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
up phase, it does not deal specifically with the loss of revenues by the municipalities themselves.
During project preparation one option examined to relieve financial pressures on the municipalities,
would have allowed both SELCo and HEPCo to declare and make dividend payments to their municipal
shareholders in anticipation of earnings; this was rejected because it would not be consistent with
managing these companies on a sound financial basis. Therefore other means of revenue generation
need to be devised for the southern West Bank municipalities.
A number of avenues may be open to the municipalities to relieve the cash gap, and it is proposed that
these be explored, by the municipalities in consultation with the PA, in the process of developing the
respective strategies and business plans for SELCo and HEPCo. Both the HEPCo business plan and the
SELCo management contract (which will reflect SELCo's business plan), which are to be submitted to
IDA for review and approval prior to disbursements under the credit for these companies, shall reflect
the funding option(s) retained by the municipalities in agreement with the PA.
4. Technical Assessment.'
The rehabilitation component of the project has been carefully prepared under a consultancy service
contract (funded under the TATF) with Rust, Kennedy and Donkin (RKD, United Kingdom), which was
completed end-1995 (see Documents in Project File (Annex 13), Generation, Transmission and
Distribution Master Plan and Emergency Assistance Project for WBG - Volumes I to VII). Under the
contract, a detailed analysis was made of existing WBG system load characteristics, in order to establish
the basis for developing projections of demand growth under low, base, and high-case economic
conditions.
A full diagnosis of the state of repair of the various municipal power systems was conducted and training
was provided to counterparts with the full participation of the PEA, including operator/owners of affected
electric distribution systems-many of whom seconded experienced local staff to participate with RKD
engineers. Local engineers participated in both the field data-gathering phase of the consultancy as well as
in subsequent design of the system master plan. The resulting master plan is technically sound, is based
on the rationalization of various equipment standards that have historically been in use in WBG, and
equally importantly, is broadly supported by stakeholders as being appropriate for the future development
of the power system. The master plan deals with: (a) the fact that the individual distribution systems are
not yet interconnected, pending agreement with the IEC; (b) selection of uniform technical standards at
the medium voltage distribution level; e.g., it provides for the rationalization/phaseout of the various 3:3-
kV, 22-kV, and 11 -kV voltage levels used in different localities; (c) least-cost means of improving quality
of supply to consumers while reducing technical and non-technical losses. Economic parameters used in
the least-cost analysis are detailed in Volume II of the RKD report (discount rate, exchange rate, shadow
wage rates, long-run marginal costs, cost of unserved energy, consumer surplus); (d) identification of both
new and additions to existing bulk supply transmission delivery points to optimize expansion of the
distribution and transmission system; and (e) preliminary assessment of the economics of installation of
new power plants in Gaza and/or the West Bank. The master plan has identified investment requirements
over the next ten years (exclusive of generation and new transmission facilities) totalling more than
US$600 million.
The Gaza component of the RKD least-cost master plan has already been implemented. The
rehabilitation of the municipal utilities in the northern region of the West Bank (Nablus area) is currently
being implemented-work in both Gaza and the Nablus region has been funded by NORAD. A project
completion report conducted by NORAD indicated that the Gaza works were satisfactorily executed and
proceeded without significant technical difficulties.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 18
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electnc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
S. Institutional Assessment:
(a)  Overall sector institutional framework. The power sector in the WBG is characterized by
dozens of small municipal electric systems which, with the notable exception of JDECo,
have been providing only limited electric utility service. (JDECo is a Palestinian-owned-
primarily private capital-utility with relatively good managerial and technical capacity. It
could form a Palestinian core from which to develop the sectors). The municipalities have
been using revenues generated from their electric departments as one of their main funding
sources for other social and utility services provided by them. Thus the power sector in the
WBG has been inexorably run down. Considerable unmet demand exists, and there is little
or no financial capacity to meet the development needs identified for the sector (see para. 4
above). The municipalities have recently been subject to a loose form of oversight by the
Ministry of Local Government. Beyond the MOLG, the PEA and an Energy Council were
introduced under the organic law passed in early 1995 as key players in the sector. The
plethora of sector institutions, and the unclear sector structure and legal framework, have led
to chaotic decisionmaking and have acted as severe constraints to effective development of
the sector. To jump start the economy, there is a clear and pressing need to proceed with
rehabilitation on an emergency basis and to rationalize the institutional framework.
Institutional capacity building is generally more complex than technical rehabilitation, and
will be particularly so in the WBG context: (i) final status arrangements for the sector have
yet to be decided under the peace negotiations, which means that key components of the
sector, namely the takeover of bulk power supplies and transmission facilities from the IEC,
remain outside the purview of the PA; (ii) while the PEA law has been passed (see above),
the concomitant regulatory framework (Electricity Law) has not yet been defined, let alone
legislated; (iii) it will be difficult to remove the municipalities' main funding sources without
a clear source of new replacement revenue and efforts to consolidate the power sector could
be slowed down. The strategic challenge, therefore, is how to rapidly develop and rationalize
the sector, taking into consideration the many weak institutions and untrained and
inexperienced staff, within the above-described local environment.
To address these institutional issues within the project, a comprehensive technical assistance
consultancy service contract was let under the TATF. This led to the development and
adoption by the PA of a cohesive sector development strategy and associated action program
(see Attachment), which are to be supported under the proposed project. Institution building
would be implemented hand-in-hand with rehabilitation. Key elements of the strategy
include: (i) definition of the role of the PEA; (ii) establishment of a single buyer model for
the acquisition, transmission, and resale of new bulk power supplies; (iii) merger of the
municipal electric departments into shareholder-owned distribution utility companies-these
new companies would replace, not be in addition to, the existing departments; (iv) use of
performance-based management contracts to establish, operate, rehabilitate, and train staff
for the new utilities; (v) implementation of the strategy using, where possible, existing local
Palestinian management capacity; and (vi) building competence in public relations and
consumer affairs into the distribution utilities' management, and into PEA's mandate to act
as a safeguard for consumer interest and social protection (including lifeline tariffs for the
poorest and most vulnerable).
(b)   Beneficiaries. JDECo, which would bear the main responsibility for project execution,
would be supported by targeted technical assistance. Implementation of the SELCo
components would proceed under a management contract. The HEPCo components would
be supported by TA, while PEA's would be implemented under consultancy service
contracts (see Institutional and implementation arrangements under sections C4a and 4b
above).



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 19
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
(c)   Project management. Support for JDECo's restructuring and project management needs is
to be provided through a contract with an internationally experienced consultant, which
would also take responsibility for the training for Palestinian counterparts.
6. Social and Stakeholder Aspects (supported by Annex 9):
In addition to the socioeconomic background study conducted in 1996 (see Annex 13, item 9) a more
recent diagnostic survey was undertaken by a team of Palestinian sociologists in mid 1999. Conclusions
are that the project is expected to bring measurable direct benefits to consumers, the majority of whom are
households, through improved quality and reliability of supply at little or no increase in tariffs, and with a
possible future decrease in real terns as consumers share in efficiency gains.
(a)   Social benefits. The great majority of households have electricity connections and
appliances, the cost is within their means, and many would be willing to pay more for
improved service. However, to secure these socioeconomic benefits, the project would need
to ensure that: (i) lifeline rates for the poorest and most vulnerable are implemented; (ii)
distribution companies develop management capacity to handle consumer affairs; (iii) PEA
develops the professional capacity and the mandate to monitor and evaluate social impacts
and safeguard consumer interests as an integral part of its regulatory role; and (iv) the project
and institutions concerned make provision for consumer education and consumer voice.
Other expected indirect benefits are: (i) a strengthened basis for economic growth, which
should indirectly benefit the poor2; (ii) improved environmental and physical conditions,
including reduced hazards, noise, and pollution from private generators and from unsafe
installations, and (iii) a sound financial and institutional base to extend future public network
connections to unserved areas. Social aspects would be monitored through appropriate TA
at the PIU and assessed by the PEA, whose mandate shall include oversight of the
socioeconomic impacts of sector reform.
(b)   Tariff issues. More effective sector regulation has the potential to reduce electric bills by at
least 10 percent. Under the project, a tariff study is to be conducted and results implemented.
The study shall include the following issues:
*   Refocusing of subsidies. Once refocused, subsidies are often more affordable (though
not necessarily desirable).
*    Linkages of energy to basic social needs. Energy subsidies compete with many, often
higher priority social needs. Basic energy needs include space heating in the winter,
fuel for cooking, and electricity for lighting. Where access is already available,
subsidies should go to reducing the bill through increased energy efficiency. (Note
that this is done in only a few OECD countries.) A US$2.25 million UNDP (GEF)
program was recently approved to focus on energy efficiency and energy conservation
measures across Gaza and the West Bank.
*    Access to service. Opening up access in the Hebron governorate is an objective of the
project and should, by itself, reduce the need for subsidies in this region. But reforms
being supported under the project are needed to achieve this development objective.
(c)  Labor impacts. Limited labor force reduction (50 to 75 positions) is expected at JDECo. A
severance package shall be provided and funded by JDECo under the project to cover early
2 Research has shown that growth almost always reduces poverty and that energy promotes growth. The resulting
gainful employment of the poor usually is, in turn, enhanced through increases in labor productivity.



P'roject Appraisal Document                                                             Page 20
C(ountry: West Bank and Gaza                         Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
retirements and assistance to staff who leave as a result of the restructuring, to help them
find good jobs or to retire comfortably. Appropriate records shall be kept and impacts
monitored during supervision and evaluated at midterm. These job losses would be
counterbalanced by: (i) improved training, career opportunities, and remuneration, including
performance incentives at JDECo; (ii) an increase in employment opportunities at SELCo
and HEPCo, together with retraining of existing municipal electric department staff; and (iii)
an increase in commercial and industrial employment where improved power supply enables
expansion (see example in Annex 9).
(d)  Financing of social services. The cost of social services is presently financed by municipal
overcharging for electricity and is dealt with under risks below.
(e)   Stakeholder aspects. The potentially strong stakeholder interests and possible conflicts
revolve around: (i) the vested interests of municipalities; (ii) the tradition of non-payment for
supply as a form of political resistance; (iii) the considerable differences among areas in
terms of wealth, employment, infrastructure, income, and supply needs; (iv) the competition
between the needs of commercial and industrial consumers as against those of household
consumers; (v) the potential conflict of roles between PEA and the distribution companies;
and (vi) the differences of interest, approach, and experience among JDECo, HEPCo, and
SELCo. The project would need to make considerable efforts to ensure that stakeholders are
appropriately integrated and involved in the project and have sufficient common interest in
its successful outcome.
7. Environmental Assessment - supported by Annex IO:    Environmental Category [ ]A  [x]B  [IC
Overall, the proposed project should have a positive impact on the environment by increasing safety and
reducing line losses, which would reduce environmental impact at the power generation points. The
emergency upgrading of existing distribution voltage level facilities would have major environmental
benefits by reducing the dangers that exist in many parts of the power system. Overhead line design will
be implemented to provide safety to people, animal, and birds. The project is well defined from an
environmental viewpoint and the design criteria incorporate appropriate standards (British standards as
adapted by the Israel Electric Company) which address environmental issues such as clearance of
electrical lines. In accordance with Operational Directive 4.01 on environmental assessment, the proposed
project is classified as a category B project, and an environmental management plan has been prepared
and included in the project implementation plan (PIP).
The main part of the project concerns upgrading of existing 33 kV and lower-voltage facilities. There
would be no works associated with power stations, transmission lines, or greenfield sites, and no rights-
of-way issues. Electromagnetic radiation from extra-high voltage is therefore not an issue. Distribution
sabstations included in the project are within existing locations in urban areas and should have no effect
on vegetation. It was confirmed, through a series of random tests and insulating oil manufacturers'
specifications, that polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) have not been used in the transformers that are
being replaced.3 During appraisal, a random sample of insulating oil from six of these transformers was
checked for PCBs, with negative results. In addition, the maintenance log of all transformers to be
replaced was checked. All use Shell Diala-A insulating oil, manufactured to ANSI/ASTM standard
D3487, an oil that does not contain PCBs, a factor that was re-confirmed with the manufacturer.
Nonetheless, to be even more sure that no PCBs are present upon removal and before disposal of the old
transformers, all will be tested before final disposal. In the unlikely event that PCBs are found present,
then these will be disposed of in accordance with the IFC Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines
for PCBs, as issued July 1, 1998-see environmental management plan at Annex 10 for details.
3 Overall, some 84 low voltage distribution transformers rated from 250 kVA to 630 kVA are to be replaced, all
finded under the Italian and EIB cofmancing.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 21
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
A focused environmental monitoring plan (details at Annex 10) has been agreed upon with the PEA and
JDECO, and would proceed as follows: removal and proper disposal (according to international
standards) of any substances considered environmentally unacceptable is mandatory; responsibility for
implementation would rest with the PIU, which would also report on any other environmental issues that
may emerge during project execution. Rehabilitation contracts shall provide for the disposal of any
transformer oils, using duly licensed and internationally certified toxic waste disposal firms. Certificates
stating that such disposal has proceeded according to international standards shall be submitted by the
contractors prior to receiving progress payments. If any transformer oil leaks are found to have
contaminated the soil in the vicinity, then such soil shall also remedied in accordance with international
standards.
Environmental regulation. A diagnostic assessment has been done by the international consulting firm
IVO International Ltd (see Annex 13). Based on this preliminary work, PEA, in coordination with the
Ministry of Environmental Affairs (MEA), would develop the policy guidelines and regulations for the
power sector. Training would be provided to the PEA in the use of these guidelines and regulations. This
work would be done with the assistance of international consultants (US$200,000 has been allocated for
this purpose).
8. Participatory Approach:
(a)  Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. Preparation was undertaken with close
collaboration with West Bank municipalities, including through power sector workshops in
Nablus (October 1996) and Hebron (December 1996). Hebron governorate municipalities
played a key role in the steering committee for the creation of SELCo-as did northern
municipalities in the parallel creation of a northern utility, outside the purview of this project
(see Section D4c, Indications of borrower commitment and ownership). A key project
preparation activity, the WBG power system master plan, was developed with the full
participation of the affected municipalities, JDECo, and the PEA (see para. E4).
(b) Other key stakeholders:
*    Consultations with the Israeli Electricity Authority, and the Israeli Ministry of
Energy and National Infrastructure;
*    Consultations and collaboration with other power sector donors;
-    Ministry of Local Government, through consultations and involvement in the
Steering Committee for the Creation of SELCo;
*    Both the Ministry of Finance and the PEA have been closely involved with the
preparation of all aspects of the project.
*    Stakeholder consultations, including household survey, conducted mid 1999--
see Annex 9 for details.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Relatively weak municipal management has led to lack of accountability, poor collections, deterioration
in service, and tariff structures that fail to respond to market signals, and provide inadequate incentives
for efficient energy use. All investment requirements for the sector cannot be met from public resources
alone. Given this environment, project sustainability is critically dependent on: (a) political commitment
to undertake reforms; (b) preparation and implementation of an unambiguous legal and regulatory
framework that would facilitate the introduction of the private sector in the delivery of utility services;



F'roject Appraisal Document                                                             Page 22
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
gand (c) clear definition of an impartial and competitive regulatory structure. Related actions to provide
incentives to the various stakeholders to implement the project successfully would therefore be
undertaken in the context of the proposed project, through, inter alia, decrees and regulations under the
new Electricity Law; the regulation of electricity enterprises, including the formulation and enforcement
of policies; and the use of operational contracting for distribution and commercial functions.
Flexibility in the application and timing of the institutional reforms is called for, rather than a more classic
atpproach with relatively tight scheduling, buttressed by legal covenants. This choice of approach reflects
riot only experience in other countries (see Section D3 above), but, more importantly, the central role that
the electricity business has played in maintaining the ability of city mayors in the WBG to deliver other
infrastructure services to their population; and the large number of such municipal stakeholders involved
in the proposed operation. On the other hand, implementation of the rehabilitation work presents no
unusual challenge. Linking reforms to rehabilitation permits early successes in rehabilitation (including
improvements in commercial performance), which would set the stage for needed public support for the
reforms. Given the non-blueprint nature of the proposed operation, close (monthly) oversight by the
Resident Mission, coupled with a fll midterm review of implementation, would be provided for.
Plroject sustainability depends on the financial viability of JDECo, HEPCo, and SELCo to mobilize
(internally, or through debt) the working capital needed to sustain ongoing activities for system operation
and maintenance (cost recovery), and on their capacity to self-finance a portion of the capital needed for
expansion. Development of a modem system of financial management and the gradual introduction of
the private sector into the operation of the two new utilities (SELCo and HEPCo) within an efficient
regulatory environment will be crucial. To make the project sustainable, the following actions either have
been taken or are envisaged:
(a)  JDECo. The new Electricity Law and the regulatory framework to come into effect during
project execution would set rules for establishing rates and clarifying the regulatory
framework (see LSDP Attachment);
(b)   SELCo. While SELCo is now established, it has yet to become operational. Disbursements
for SELCo's components would only take place after SELCo enters into a performance-
based management contract arrangement acceptable to IDA. Future performance would be
subject to the Companies Law and would therefore be subject to audits by qualified external
auditors;
(c)   HEPCo. Hebron municipality's electricity operations would be corporatized and registered
as a shareholding distribution utility (HEPCo) before disbursements are made. HEPCo
would submit a corporate business plan covering its initial years of operation, to be vetted by
the project's cofinanciers.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 23
Country: West Bank and Gaza                              Electnc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1. cell "from Outputs to Development
Obiective"
Implementation of remaining elements of LSDP,        S       Participatory approach in developing and
including regulation and redefinition of PEA's role          adopting sector policy, followed by
signature of LSDP at presidential level (see
section B2 above); implementation of
crucial initial steps before Board
presentation; e.g., SELCo has been
registered as a company under the
companies law (see Section D4c). Two
key disbursement conditionalities for
SELCo and HEPCo introduced in the
TFCA. Cross-conditionality provisions
with project cofinanciers.
Continued financial viability of distribution utilities  M   Gradually increasing private sector
after project                                               involvement in SELCo, HEPCo, and
JDECo; rehabilitation of existing networks
to reduce technical losses, reduce costs,
and, as a result of new meter installations,
improve revenue collection. Project funds
a portion of initial startup costs of new
utilities.
Continued support for further private sector        M        Signing of LSDP at presidential level;
involvement from all stakeholders                           implementation of crucial first steps before
Board presentation.
Successful negotiations with IEC on transfer of     M        Outside the Bank's control; capacity
remaining assets in the West Bank                            building within PEA as part of the project.
Sufficient transmission capacity in WBG created      S       Sector investment program has been
developed and agreed upon. Specific
consultancy service contract to create new
Palestinian transmission company is a
funded component of the project.
Enough energy generated or available through        N        Hedge risk through two-pronged strategy
imports                                                      of own generation and imports from
neighboring countries. Regular power
supplies from IEC were historically
maintained even during the height of the
Intifada.
Annex 1. cell "from Components to Outputs"
Political situation conducive to implementation      S       While primarily outside the Bank's control,
autonomy has now been granted to the PA
to go ahead in areas defined as A and B in
the Peace Accords.
Sufficient rehabilitation implementation capacity in  M      Project management consultancy, other



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 24
Country: West Bank and Gaza                            Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
the sector                                                TA; modular character of rehabilitation
works. Implementation of similar
rehabilitation components already
successfully completed in other regions of
the WBG (see Section D2 above).
Continued collaboration among municipalities, and  S      Prominent role of municipalities in the
with PEA, JDECo, SELCo, HEPCo                             project steering conmmittee (see Section C
4b). MoLG a significant shareholder in the
new distribution utility, SELCo (see
Section B3).
No significant delays in the availability of      M       Cross-conditionalities, retroactive
cofinancing                                               financing with allowance for bridge
financing, modular character of
rehabilitation work. EIB loan has already
been approved and loan documents signed;
Italian loan approved end July 1999.
Overall Risk Rating                               M      I
Risk ratings: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk).
While the risk rating for the project as a whole is modest-given the relative success of other projects in
the country-project risks that do exists would be partially mitigated by the modular character of the
operation; in this sense, project execution would be essentially self-regulating. That is, the benefits of
individual project components would occur independently of the successful implementation of other
components. For example, the strengthening of JDECo would be beneficial even if the creation of SELCo
or HEPCo were delayed. The same applies for individual rehabilitation components, each one of which
would yield economic benefits without direct dependence on the completion of the entire project.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
(a)   Issues related to the status of the Palestinian-owned but Jerusalem-based JDECo;
(b)   Final status of SELCo after termination of the management contract (private vs. public;
merger with another utility);
(c)   Vertical separation of generation and distribution (keen municipal interest in generation);
(d)   Local sensitivities involved in collaboration among municipalities, PEA, JDECo, and
HEPCo;
(e)   Merger of HEPCo into SELCo;
(f)   Divestiture by HEPCo of electric distribution assets, currently located in the municipality of
Halhul, which are to be transferred to SELCo;
(g)   Possibility of using JDECo as the management contractor to launch SELCo.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Satisfactory onlending agreements among PA, JDECo, and the PEA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements]:
*     Cross-conditionality with EI: Credit to be suspended if EIB parallel financing is not
available within 9 months of loan effectiveness.
*     Cross-conditionality with Italy:  While there would be no cross-conditionality with the
Italian program, provisions for bridge financing, including retroactive funding, would be



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 25
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
made to mitigate the risks associated with a possible delay in the execution of works finded
under Italian aid.
*    Disbursement to HEPCo under the Italian loan and IDA credit conditioned on: (a) HEPCo
having been registered as a company under the Companies Law; (b) a business plan for
HEPCo being agreed upon by the project cofinanciers; and (c) satisfactory on-lending
agreements put in place.
*    Disbursement to SELCo under the Italian loan and IDA credit conditioned on SELCo having
a performance-based management contract (a "service improvement program") that is
acceptable to IDA, and being duly signed and effective; and satisfactory on-lending
agreements put in place.
*    Financial covenants: JDECo to achieve (i) a minimum debt service coverage ratio of at least
1.5 times before it may issue any new debt; (ii) a minimum current ratio of 1.5 times to
ensure adequacy of working capital and short-term liquidity; and (iii) a limitation on
dividend payout, requiring it to obtain the prior approval of IDA in case payment of the
dividend would cause the current ratio to fall below 1.5 times.
*    Audits: The Borrower shall cause each responsible agency to carry out each year financial
audits of their financial statements (including SOEs) by independent auditors acceptable to
the administrator of the TFGWB, and to submit such audits to IDA no later than six months
after the end of such year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x]    The engineering design and procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete
and ready for the start of project implementation. Cofinancing arrangements for approximately
US$73 million (about 80 percent of estimated total financing required) have been approved.
JDECo as an operating utility has in place an appropriately staffed engineering and construction
department that will form the basis for starting the implementation of rehabilitation subprojects.
The PEA, while a relatively new entity, has been functioning since 1995. Advance procurement
activities are underway to recruit the TA needed by JDECo to assist in implementation of its
restructuring program, including the engineering services needed to support the engineering and
construction department. Advance procurement activities are underway to: (a) recruit the TA for
SELCo (i.e., the performance management contract); (b) TORs for the preparation of HEPCo's
business plan have been agreed; and (c) TORs for the PEA consultancies have been agreed.
Terms of reference and the project implementation plan have been agreed and found to be
realistic and of satisfactory quality. No further PA approvals are required. No land acquisition is
involved. Conclusion of the on-lending agreement is a condition of project effectiveness. SELCo
has already been incorporated as a company under the Companies Law (see Section D4c).
I. Compliance with IDA Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to IDA policies are recommended for approval: NA. The project
complies with all other applicable IDA policies.]
Team Leader                          ng Sector Director                 -  Country Director
Rama L. Skelton                  Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk                     Joseph Saba



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 26
Country: West Bank and Gaza                       Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Attachment
Palestine Narional Authoriry
The Palestine Energy Authoritv
The Power Sector
Letter of Sector Policv
The power sector in Palestine has been severely neglected. Systems are old and inefficienr,
electricirv supplies are unreliable; generation is highly dependent on Israeli sources; the
institutional framework is weak and highly fragmented: and consumption is considerably
below resional standards. In response to these conditions, in 1995 the Palestine National
Authority (PA) established the  Palestine Energy Authority (PEA) as the sole arency
responsible for sector development (Decision No. 12 of 1995). This Letter of Sector Policy
(LSP) sets out the PA's and PEA's policy for the development of the sector.
Objectives and Strategy
TLe PEA is committed to providing the citizens of the Palestinian with reliable electicirv
supplies, and is committed to doing so at a price that is affordable and that permits the
efficient long term development of the sector and the economy as a whole.
Consistent with the above objectives and given the urgent problems of the sector, priority is
being given to: remedying current svstem deficiencies; improving service delivery and public
acc:ountability; and laying the legaL institutional, economic and financial and technical basis
for efficient system development Thus over the last two years the PEA has undertaken a
number of actions. srudies and consultations aimed at improving system performance and
service delivery, and reforming the institutional frameworL. These have been underalken in
corLjunction with municipalities, village councils and villages, and with the assistance of the
World Bank, Norway and other members of the donor community and villages.
Medium-term Strategy
As a result of these actions and deliberations, the PEA has developed a medium-term (- 7
year) sector development strategy, the main components of which are:
1. To focus on rehabilitating existing networks and services and extend services to currently
unserved communities,
2. To separate the 'policy' and 'regulatory' functions from the -commercial fumctions' of
power secTor enterprises;
3. To refocus and reorganize the PEA to be the main policy making body for the sector;
4. To encourage maximum priva.te sector paruicipation in sector operations and
development, particularly in generation and distribution. thus minimizing the need for
government financial support:
PEA 03/07/97                                                                      1



Page 27
Prouect Apprainsk and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
5. To consolidare transrnission networks, systems and functions in the a new transmission
company;
6. To establish three new autonomous and conrnerciallv-oriented regional distribution
utilities (one in Gaza and two in the West Bank) by consolidaing the existina electricity
departments of municipalities, village councils and villages;
7. To increase the operating/technical efficiency of the distribution utility companies
through energy end-use efficiency, energy conservation and better load management; and
8. To develop pragmatic tariff setting guidelines that will permit full cost recoverv and
promote the commercial viability of sector enterprises while at the sarne time providing
for 'lifeline' rates for needy consumers.
Our strategy is guided by the following core considerations:
While the existing  transmission  and distribution svstem is currently weak and
fragmented, complete centralization of all components of the svstem in a single public
aaencv would be inefficient and would militate a=ainst efficient long-term system
development. In particular. it would discourage private investment in the sector.
*     Decentralization  and commnercialization  can yield sienificant service benefits to
consumers, reduce the financial burden on the public sector, encourage private
invesunent   and   parricipation   in  the   sector.        "Unbundling"   and
comrnercialization/privatization of key parts of the system (particularly generation
and distribution) is both feasible and desirable. Also it is necessary in order to
improve service and system quality, and to yield efficiency gains to consumers and
the economy as a whole.
*     Certain functions and parts of the svstem (particularlv policv, system development,
and transmission) cannot be efficiently privatized and must thus be retained in the
public sector to 'significant extent. But for these functions to be efficiently performed
they should be disentangled form each other.
While the PEA is fully committed to the strategy outlined in this letter, we propose to act
prudently, in close consultation with stakeholders, and with due regard to questions of
economic and technical feasibility and strategic national interests. Thus we propose to
implement the reforms in carefullv sequenced and calibrated steps over the next two to three
years.
Some of the key components of our institutional reforrn strategy are briefly discussed below
and are summarized in the attached table and organogram (Exhibits I and 2).
Svstem Rehabilitation
Network upgrading is critical to improving service reliability and efficiencv. Accordingly,
since its establishment the PEA has undertaken a number steps to remedv critical networkl
deficiencies. Among- of our first actions was to begin to remedy the most critical defects in
PEA 08/07/97



I:roject Appraisal Document                                                        Page 28
Country: West Bank and Gaza                       Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
the distribution network in Gaza with the assistance the government of Norway. This
program  is now being extended to cover the Northern West Bank, and we will shortly extend
our efforts to begin to address the most critical deficiencies in the Hebron and central regions,
i.e., in the southerm West Bank.
Rural Electrification
Electrifying the Palestinian rural areas is a crucial function to develop the a agricultural
sector, water supply and other sector in the villages.
Reforming the Institutional Framework
As indicated above, the PEA is convinced that major svstem reforms are necessarv for
efficient sector development The kev areas of reform are: 1) Overall Sector Coordination,
Policy Formatior4 and System Development; 2) Generation; 3) Transmission; 4) Distribution;
5) Tariffs and RegUlation; 7) Government Asset Holdina; and 8) Legal Measures To Give
Effect To The Proposed Reforms. Each is brieflv discussed below.
Overall Secror Coordination, Policy Formation, and System Development
The PEA will continue to be the sole PA agency responsible for these critical national
fuictions, and will of course lead the reforms. In doing so. it will divest itself of some of its
cuirent functions (see below) and reorgzanize itself into a professional agency as shown in
'Exhibits 1 and 2. with offices in both West Bank and Gaza. The PEA would also continue to
be responsible for those components ofthe sector such as rural electrification. regional inter-
connection, energy conservation and research which cannot be realistically or efficientlv
coimmercialized. Energy efficiencv and conservation will be coordinated with the existing
Palestine Energy Center (PEC). Tariff setting and regulation will be overseen by a separate
independent commission reporting To the Palestinian Authority (PA) as discussed below and
shown schematically under Exhibit 2. 
Generation
In order to increase system capaciry and reduce supply dependency on Israel, the PEA will
encourage the creation of new generating capacitv within Palestine. In doing so, the PEA
will encoura=e maximum participation by the private sector through independent power
providers (IPPs). In this context The PEA has been promoting private participation in the
development of a new generating plant in Gaza with interconnection to the West Bank. The
PEA will also diversify the sources of supply by encouraging the purchases from neighborinz
countries while at the sane time promoting regional interconnection, system stabilization
and scale economies.
Transmission
The transmission network is not vet fully in Pales-tinian hands. Also it is a component of the
svstem that can nt be reasonablv privatized. However it needs to be efficiently managed.
To this end the PEA would es;ablish a new. professionally managed and commercially -
PEA (8/07/97



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 29
Country: West Bank and Gaza                      Electric Sedor Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
oriented companv. Palestine Energy Transmission Company Ltd. (PETL) which would
eventually own, operate and develop the network. Board of PETL would enter into power-
purchase agreements with independent and semi-independent generating comparnies and from
neighboring countries. and would sell power to regionaI distribution utilities (see below).
Distribution
'In order to reduce fragmentation and increase efficiency the existing fragmented distribution
system will be consolidated into three new commercially oriented regional utilities, one in
Gaza and three in the West Bankc (A privately owned utility alreadv serves the Jerusalem
region.). The three new utility (Gaza Region Electficity Utility (GREU), Nablus Electricity
Utility (NEU). and Southem ElectriciTy Company (SELCo) would be owned jointly by the
PEA and the municipalities and village Councils in the respective regions.. The members of
the boards of the new companies would be appointed by the respective municipalities, village
councils and the PEA. The new utilities would own the distribution networks, be responsible
for service delivery and operations within their regions. They would of course do so within
an overall policy fiamework established under LSP and as administered by the PEA. To help
establish the new utilities as quicklv and a efficiently as possible, the PEA. would contract
technical assistance services from competent international authorities and utilities for an
iitial period not expected to exceed 5 years. While privatization of the utilities is not
considered practicable at this stage, provision would be made for siamificant private
participation within 5 years.
Tariffs and-keg-ulation
In order to help create a "level playing field" for the private sector participation, tariff setting
would be done by a new independent conimissiorn, the Palestine Energy Regulation
Commission (PERC) reporting to the PA. While the PEA would establish the overall policy
for sector development, tariffs would be set bv PERC on the basis of commercial
considerations with due regard to the needs of especiallv vulnerable segments of the
population. The members of the Board of PERC would be appointed by the PA on the
recormmendation of the Board of PEA. PERC would include significant representation from
the private sector.
Government Asset Holding
The PEA will divest itself ofmany of its existing functions. However, for reasons outlined
above, government will need to retain ownership of significant sector assets. In order to
ensure the efficient management of important national assets. these assets would be vested in
a small professionally managed holding company, Palestine Energy Holdings Ltd. (PEEL).
The members of the Board of PEHL would be appointed by the PA on the recomrnmendation
of the Board of PEA.
PEA O8/07i97                                                                     4



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 30
Country: West Bank and Gaza                       Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Legal Measures To Give Effect To The Proposed Reforms
In order zo give effect to the proposed reforms the existing law will ne-d to be amended or a
new law passed.  The PEA will take steps over the next, few months to draft the necessary
le.2islaTon and present it to the Palestinian Council for debare and ratificarion.
Time Table
As  noted above, the PEA will act prudently and on a timely basis. Accordingly, the
following time table is envisaged:
Kev Activities                                 Target Starr/Completion Dates
Rehabilitntion
Ga' program                                On-goin,
*  Imple.nent West Bankprogram                Be2in Mav 1997
*  Rural Electrification: begin  West Bank  Begzin imnlemenraion by July 1997
program
13nstitUtional Reform
Legislation
Pr:?ara necessary legislation           Complete by end October 1997
P:esent reform legislarion to the Council   Present by end November 1997
-  Resructcre PEA
-  Establish PERC                              January, 1998
.  Generation
Invite proposals from IPPs for Gaz      On-going
Execute fist IPP aereemenx for Gaza     Seatember 1997
- Transmission
Es-ablish PETL                          January, 1998
*  Dismibution
Es-tablish NEU                          January, 1998
Establish GREU and SELCo                March, 1998
p.  PEA  sse: Holding
Establish PEB.                          January, 1999
Signed:
Dr. Abdul Rahman Hamad          *.-*     K
Chairman, PEA                                 ,J
Signed:      4A
Yr' mscr
7U-   ,.
:.- asier - 



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 31
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                Electrc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
xhilbitl1: The Proposed Institutional Framewor- of the Pover Secror
Role/Function         Responsibility    Structure/Strategv
*  Overall  Sector  PEA                 A small, highly professional public a.ency already established by
Coordination &                      the PA; responsible to the PA for overall system performance and
Development                         developmenL and for administering PA policv for the Power
sector, as defins in the LSP.
*  Policy            PEA                A  department of PEA  focusing  on rechnical, economic and
formation                           financial analysis of system  perforrnance and planning for future
system development, including regional inter-connection.
e  Svstem             PEA               A  department of PEA focusing  on immediate and lon. term
Development                         system  improvement,  investment promotion, regional inter-
connection and those areas such as rural electrification which may
not attract private investors and operators.
*  Energy            PEC                An existing  independent sub-agency of the PEA focusing on
Efriciency  and                     research and public education.
Conservation
*  Generation        Private &  Semi- Independent  generating  companies, developed, financed and
Private  Corpora-  managed by private investors. but with PEA support and, possibly.
tions             minor PEA shareholding.
=  Trantsmission     Palestine  Energy  A   small, separate professionally  managed public company,
Transmission Ltd  responsible for management, maintenance and development of the
(PETL)            national transmission svsrem  (grid).   Purchases power from
generating companies and sells to regional utilities.
*  Distribution      Semi-Private       Newly created autonomous regional utility companies (perhaps ;
regional utilities    on the West Bankl and I in Gaza)operating on a commercial basis,
with PEA and  municipalities as lastone in March  the major
shareholders: systems to be created over the next year by
consolidating  existing    municipal  systems;  operating and
development support to be provided, inter alia, by internarionallv
recruited  experts  including- management contractors (MCs);
privatizaion a key objecrive by yr. 5; minor PEA sht reholding;
responsible for local and regional system operations,. anagement
and developmenL servic- delivery to customers, anr billing and
collection.
*  Tariffs       &   Palestine  Energy  An independent PA/PEA appointed Re-ulatory Commission with
Regulation        Regulation        members from central eovernment- indusrv, municipalities. and
Commission        the general public; responsible for tariff settine and competition
(PERC)            policy; to be created over the next year ( table says Jan 1998).
v   Government       Palestine Energy    A small professionallv managed public corporation wholly owned
Asset 1iolding   Holdings Ltd.      by PEA: to be created during the next year, ( table says Jan 199S)
(PEHL)            independent Board appointed by PA and PEA.



Project Appraisal Document
Electric Sector Investment and Management  Page 32
2, ---=rC!   -Q<¢4C.    -U
~~~~~~~ =                                  = '
46~ ~ ~ ~~~~~4
LU 



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 33
Country: West Bank and Gaza                              Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
NARRAT    SUMMPARY            PERFOOA     CEZ           LA .uM o  A-
1NDGAT2    S                                   1Y~A~~O
Sector-reIatod CAS Goal - 
Provision of infrastructure                                                       Favorable macroeconomic
needed to create an                                                               conditions; successful continuation
environment conducive to                                                          of the peace process.
private sector activity and
investment.
Project Development  .-evelopnentobject toCAS
To benefit electricity     *  No suppressed demand                                *   Successful implementation of
consumers, predominantly       after 2003.                                            other financial, legal, and
households, through                                                                   infrastructure projects.
sustainable improvements in                                                       *   Implementation of the power
the quality of electricity                                                            sector expansion plan.
supply. In particular, the
project will:
*  Initiate restructuring of   *  Self-financing ratio of   *  Audited financial
the power sector in        25% or more for             statements, PEA
accordance with the        planned system              distribution company
Palestinian Authority's    expansions.                statistics.
(PA) Statement of      *  HEPCo and SELCo          *  Company articles of
Power Sector               established.                association and
Development Policy;                                    concessions.
i.e., corporatize and
commercialize two new
entities (HEPCo and
SELCo).
*  Strengthen PEA's        *  Completion of studies.
capacity to put in place   *  New regulatory
power sector reforms       framework and
and, in coordination       Electricity Law in place
with Ministry of           by end of project.
Environmental Affairs,   *  Passage of Electricity
develop environment        Law, including (a)
policy and regulations     regulatory framework
for the power sector.      as per LSDP; (b) power
*  Reinforce the power         market at generation
systems in the central     and distribution level
andn southern regions      open to private sector
of the West Bank, as a     operators via IPPs,
first step in the PA's     BOOs, concessions,
and PEA's least-cost       etc.; (c) open access to
power expansion plan.      tramsmission by third
parties. Draft law
presented to PLC by the
third project year.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 34
Country: West Bank and Gaza                              Electnc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
* Implementation of
environmental policy
guidelines and
regulations by mid-term
I . Strengthened           *  Independent southern    *  Concession, Artiicles of  a  Implementation of remaining
institutional structure.   distribution company       Association.               elements of LSDP, including
operating by 1999.     *  Company annual             regulation and redefinition of
*  50% of staff have          reports.                    PEA's role.
received adequate                                 *  Continued financial viability
training by 2001.                                     of distribution utilities beyond
*  Customer Management                                    project.
Information System in                             *  Continued support for further
place by end 2001.                                    private sector involvement in
*  Computerized billing                                  the sector from all
and collection systems                                stakeholders.
in place by end 2001.                             *  Successful negotiations with
*  Positive cash flow for                                IEC on transfer of remaining
SELCo by end of its                                   assets.
first year of operation.
2. Higher efficiency in    *  Reduction of technical   *  Company audited        *  Sufficient transmission
electricity distribution,  and non-technical          annual reports (HEPCo,     capacity in WBG created.
and improved quality of   losses by 2-3% per          SELCo, JDECo).         *  Enough energy generated or
service.                   year:                  *  Quarterly reports by        available through imports.
*  More than 200              PIU project manager.    *  Excludes consumer outages
customers/employees    *  Company financial          related to wholesale
by end 2001.              statements.                 purchases.
*  Voltage fluctuation less
than
+12% by 2001 and after
I10% by 2003 and after
*  Number and duration of
power outages reduced
by:
50% by end of 2001; a
further 25% reduction
below the 2001 level by
2002, and maintained at
this level thereafter.
1 . Rehabilitation of     *  About US$80 million in  *Progress report from       Political situation conducive to
electricity distribution  rehabilitation work         PIUi.                  implementation:
system inn southern        program:               *  Progress reports from   *  Sufficient implementation
West Bank and central   *  About US$4.4 million       PEA and consultants.       capacity in the sector.
West Bank.                 for technical assistance.                         *  Continued collaboration
*  76 km of high-voltage                                  among municipalities in the
and 54 km of low-                                     steering committee, and with
voltage cable replaced;                               PEA, JEDCo.
310 km of overhead                                *  No significant delays in the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 35
Country: West Bank and Gaza                             Electrc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
MorrrRI4GAND
distribution lines                                    availability of cofinancing.
replaced.
*   195 distribution
transformers and 10
power transformers
replaced; 190 circuit
breakers replaced.
2. Targeted technical      a  About US$4.3 million    .  Project management
assistance for the         for project management     and monitoring system
institutional              systems design and         is established and
strengthening of           implementation             operational within 6
JDECo.                     services.                  mo. of startup.
*  New MIS installed and
operational as from
2002.
3. Technical assistance for  *  Southern WB
the consolidation and      distribution companies
corporatization of         operational as from end
municipal electricity      of first project year.
departments in the     .  50% number of staff in
southern West Bank.        each company trained
in relevant management
skills by end of project.
4. Performance-based                                  *  Signed MC contract.
management assistance
contract for SELCo.
5. TA to PEA to assist in    US$2 million budget for  *  New Electricity Law     .  Lifeline electricity rates for
sector reform (new     consultancy services.          submitted to              the poorest and most
electricity law,       .  Professional capacity       Parliament.                vulnerable are implemented.
regulatory issues, etc.)   and mandate created    *  Tariff study completed   .  Responsible agencies within
and the safeguarding of    within PEA to evaluate     and agreed                 project make provision for
consumer interests.       social impacts and          reconmmendations           consumer education and
safeguard consumer         implemented                consumer voice.
interest.              *  Transmission company   *  PEA mandate to include
registered as company      oversight of the
by end of 2003.            socioeconomic impacts of
*  Pre-feasibility studies     sector reform.
to expand power
distribution systems in
West Bank completed.
*  Study to develop
environmental policy
guidelines regulations
for the power sector,
and training provided to
PEA and MEA.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 36
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
The general condition of the power system in the West Bank and Gaza varies from barely adequate to totally
deteriorated. Substations and distribution transformers are generally overloaded and poorly maintained. The
substations are in poor condition and installed reactive power capacity is inadequate to correct for low
power factors. There are insufficient transformers to provide acceptable voltage levels to the ultimate
consumers. A number of obsolete non-standard distribution voltages are in use. Damaged insulators are
common and exposed cables often show considerable damage to their outer covering. Low-voltage lines are
too long, leading to excessive technical power losses. Consultants (funded through the TATF) have
developed an emergency rehabilitation program to ease the West Bank's overloaded electricity distribution
system.
Component 1: Rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network - US$76.3 million 1
IDA, along with Italian and EIB parallel financing, would finance this component. It forms the critical
initial part of the least-cost solution for power system expansion, and includes the work and training of
Palestinian counterparts necessary to regain the bulk of the capacity and reliability of the existing
infrastructure. The following is a summary of the distribution network rehabilitation work to be
implemented under this component:
(a) for the Hebron governorate (Hebron and the five smaller southern West Bank municipalities of
Yatta, Dura, Thahriah, Halhul, and Beit Ommar):
*     installation of 2 new substations (33/11-6.6 kV) and all associated elements of the
distribution system for future 11 kV operation. One would be located at Alharayek with 10
MVA capacity and the second near Halhul with 5 MVA capacity;
installation of 80 additional transformers (33/0.4 kV; 11/0.4 kV - 250 to 400 kVA) to
relieve overload on existing transformers and to reduce the secondary LV line lengths. Out
of the 80 transformers, 28 would be replacements;
*     installation/replacement of 70 km of primary lines (33 and 1 lkV) and associated secondary
LV lines (0.4 kV) to accommodate the new substations and the distribution transformers
mentioned above.
*     The SELCo Phase II component (US$2.6 million funded under the Italian loan) includes
the engineering, preparation costs and the initial rehabilitation work for the expansion of
the SELCo system beyond the boundaries of the initial five smaller municipalities.
(b) for the Central West Bank area (Jerusalem and Jericho distribution networks and distribution
network extension in Bethlehem):
*     installation of a new 10 MVA substation (33/11-6.6 kV) at Wadi El-Goz near the old city;
*     rehabilitation of the Silwan and Aqbat Jaber substations and installation of a new 5 MVA
transformer;
*     installation of 100 additional transformers (33/0.4 kV; 11/0.4 kV - 250 to 630 kVA) to
relieve the overload on existing transformers and to reduce the secondary LV line length.
out the 100 transformers, 56 would be replacements;
Includes contingencies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 37
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
installation/replacement of 65 km of primary lines (33 and 11 kV) and associated secondary
LV lines (0.4 kV) to accommodate the new substation and the distribution transformers
mentioned above.
(c) for the Central West Bank area (Ramallah distribution network):
*    replacement of the 7.5 MVA transformer by a 10 MVA at the Beiten West substation and
installation of a 5 MVA substation in Umm Safa;
*    installation of 8 additional transformers (33/0.4 kV; 11/0.4 kV - 250 to 400 kVA) to relieve
the overload on existing transformers and to reduce the secondary LV line length;
*     installation/replacement of 27 km of primary lines (33 and 11 kV) and associated secondary
LV lines (0.4 kV) to relieve the overload of existing transformers and to reduce the
secondary LV line length;
*     installation of a new distribution level Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
system to enable JDECo to improve the control and monitoring of all of its sub-
transmission and primary voltage distribution facilities.
Component 2: Technical assistance to strengthen sector institutions - US$12.2 million
This component would be financed by IDA, with Italian parallel financing, and counterpart funding (US$3.0
million) by the project utilities (JDECo, HEPCo and SELCo):
(a) Management contract, systems design, and implementation for SELCo (US$2.15 million). To
start up the new SELCo operations, consolidate the merger of the constituent municipal systems,
and improve its management, SELCo would enter into a performance-based management contract.
Under this contract, the utility operator would take on managerial responsibility for the operation of
SELCo for about three years. Remuneration for these services would be a combination of
performance-based incentive fees and a fixed management fee. The fee structure would be on a
declining scale, as the contractor gradually hands over more operational responsibilities to the
newly trained SELCo management team. SELCo would contribute a portion of its internally
generated funds to the financing of the management contract, as well as to other related working
capital costs to launch the new company. This component also includes the engineering work to
implement the SELCo Phase II expansion.
(b) Technical assistance to JDECo (US$5.8 million). This component would provide targeted
technical assistance to JDECo in areas where JDECo's own capacity has potential for improvement
(e.g., financial management, billing and collection, project management). It would also include the
project management assistance needed by JDECo to ensure the successful and timely
implementation of the rehabilitation work under its purview. The TA team shall be integrated into
JDECo's existing project/construction management department. The duties of the consultant would
include: ensuring uniformity of construction standards, minimizing operating costs, negotiating
rehabilitation contracts with bidders, approving designs, construction cost control, and
commissioning. The consultant would also ensure smooth interface with project donors and train
Palestinian counterparts. The consultant would report to JDECo management.
(c) Technical assistance to PEA (US$2. 0 million). The TA component of the project would include
assistance to PEA in the implementation of the LSDP Action Program (e.g., on sector regulation,
drafting of a new Electricity Law and related regulations, conduct an electricity tariff study,
establishment of a transmission company, preparation of technical and safety standards, training),
as well as engineering consultancies to further advance the prefeasibility studies for the
transmission and distribution expansion programs in the central and southem regions.



Droject Appraisal Document                                                              Page 38
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
(d) Technical assistance to HEPCo (US$2.25 million). To corporatize and commercialize its
electric utility operations (business plan implementation).
Component 3: Initial Startup and Operating Expenditures - US$2.5 million
This component would be financed by IDA. It would cover a portion of the startup costs of SELCo to
operate as a financially sound and technically capable power distribution company. Funding would
include provision of expert services, training, and goods related to the initial startup of the company. This
component would also cover a portion of the startup cost to establish BEPCo's capacity to operate as a
financially sound and technically capable power distribution company.
The Italian loan would finance primarily the distribution rehabilitation work in the Hebron govemorate
(Hebron and the smaller municipalities in the southern part of the West Bank) as well as the SCADA; the
EIB loan would finance the Jerusalem and Jericho areas (central West Bank) as well as the distribution
,network extension in Bethlehem. Counterpart funds would cover any taxes and duties applicable to
project components (see Annex 3 for details of the financing plan).



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 39
Country: West Bank and Gaza                         Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs,1' Financing Plan, and Implementation Schedule
Proiect ComDonent                                             Local          Foreign       Total
------------------------US $ million---------------
Component 1
Rehabilitation of distribution network and system expansion
JDECo
Ramallah area                                              2.0             6.4          8.4
Bethlehem area                                             2.6             6.0          8.6
Other central West Bank areas                              5.0            18.5         23.5
SCADA                                                                      2.7          2.7
SELCo
Phase I                                                   4.1             4.9          9.0
Phase 11                                                  0.3             2.1          2.4
HEPCo                                                          4.5             5.0          9.5
Component 2
Technical assistance to strengthen sector institutions                     9.2          9.2
Organizational strengthening (JDECo. HEPCo, SELCo) 2J      2.0             1.0          3.0
Component 3
Initial startup and operating expenditures                 2.5             0.0          2.5
Base Cost                                                      23.0            55.8         78.8
Contingencies                Physical                          2.0             5.0          7.0
Price                             3.0             2.2          5.2
Total project cost                                             28.0            63.0         91.0
Project cost exempt from taxes and duties.
21 Costs are associated with component 2 above and consists primarily of pre-retirement including
business system design and implementation.



Financing Plan
(Costs include contingencies)
Use of Funds Bv Beneficiary                                     IDA        '       EIB                itaiy         internai Funds          Total                    Percent             |        g)
Of Utility   1Of ESIMP
Local expenses                                            $2,500,000          $9,500,000        $14,000,000         $2,000,000        $28,000,000          30.77%
Foreign expenses                                         $12,500,000         $28,500,000        $21,000,000         $1,000,000        $63,000,000          69.23%
Total ESIMP                                                   $15,000,000         $38,000,000        $35,000,000         $3,000,000        $91,000,000          100.00%                           w X
a
Jerusalem  District Electric Company (JDECo)
ESIMP Project Implementation and Change Management U      $1,700,000                 $0                  $0                $0          $1,700,000           3.02%                           CD
General Management and Systems Design                       $500,000                 $0                  $0          $400,000            $900,000           1.60%
Organizational Restructuring and Pre-retirements                 $0                  $0                  $0         $1,500,000         $1,500,000           2.67%
Technology and Management Systems Implementation            $600,000                 $0            $200,000           $100,000           $900,000           1.60%
Networks Rehabilitation Project Management                       $0                  $0            $800,000                $0            $800,000           1.42%
SCADA System                                                     $0                  $0          $3,000,000                $0          $3,000,000           5.34%
Distribution Network Rehabilitation Work                  $5,000,000         $38,000,000         $4,400,000                $0         $47,400,000          84.34%
Sub-total For JDECO (Central West Bank)       $7,800,000        $38,000,000          $8,400,000        $2,000,000       $56,200,000           100.00%         61.76%
Southern Electric Company (SELCo 11
Initial startup & Operating Expenditures                  $1,000,000                 $0                  $0                $0          $1,000,000           7.09%
Management Contract                                         $500,000                 $0                  $0                $0            $500,000           3.55%
General Management and Systems Design                       $500,000                 $0                  $0           $100,000           $600,000           4.26%
Organizational Restructuring and Pre-retirements                 $0                  $0                  $0           $200,000           $200,000           1.42%
Technology and Management Systems Implementation            $100,000                 $0            $100,000           $100,000           $300,000           2.13%
Networks Rehabilitation Project Management                       $0                  $0            $300,000                $0            $300,000           2.13%
Distribution Network Rehabilitation Work                    $200,000                 $0         $11,000,000                $0         $11,200,000          79.43%
Sub-total for SELCO (Original Shareholders)     $2,300,000                 $0          $11,400,000          $400,000      $14,100,000            100.00%         15.49%
Palestinian Energy Authority (PEA)
ESIMP Project Implementation and Change Management U        $100,000                 $0                 $0                 $0            $100,000           5.00%
General Management and Systems Design                       $200,000                 $0                  $0                $0            $200,000          10.00%                          m
Organizational Restructuring                                     $0                  $0                  $0                $0                  $0           0.00%
Technology and Management Systems Implementation            $100,000                 $0                  $0                $0            $100,000           5.00% 
Power Sector Institutional and Regulatory Frameworks        $900,000                 $0                 $0                 $0            $900,000          45.00%                         cn
Power Demand Projections and Tariff Studies                 $700,000                 $0                  $0                $0            $700,000          35.00%
Sub-total for PEA (institutional & Regulatory)   $2,000,000                 $0                 $0                 $0        $2,000,000           100.00%          220%
5-
Small SWB Municipalities (SELCo Phase II)                                                                                                                                                        <CD
Organizational Restructuring and Pre-retirements                 $0                  $0                  $0                $0                  $0           0.00%
Technology and Management Systems Implementation                 $0                  $0                 $0                 $0                  $0           0.00%                          a
Networks Rehabilitation Project Management                       $0                  $0            $250,000                $0            $250,000           8.77%
Distribution Network Rehabilitation Work                         $0                  $0          $2,600,000                $0          $2,600,000          91.23%
Sub-total for SELCo Phase II             $0                  $0          $2,850,000                $0        $2,850,000           100.00%           3.13%          r
Hebron Electric Power Company (HEPCo)
Technical Assistance (Business Plan Implementation)         $600,000                 $0                 $0                 $0            $600,000           4.04%                          3
Initial startup & Operating Expenditures                  $1,500,000                 $0                 $0                 $0          $1,500,000          10.10%                          3a
General Management and Systems Design                       $500,000                 $0                  $0          $100,000            $600,000           4.04% /
Organizational Restructuring and Pre-retirements                 $0                  $0                 $0           $400,000            $400,000           2.69%                          i3
Technology and Management Systems Implementation            $300,000                 $0                  $0          $100,000            $400,000           2.69%                          i>
Networks Rehabilitation Project Management                       $0                  $0            $300,000                $0            $300,000           2.02%                         0
Distribution Network Rehabilitation Work                         $0                  $0         $11,050,000                $0         $11,050,000          74.41%
Sub-total For HEPCo        $2,900,000                $S          $11,350,000          $600,000       $14,850,000           100.00%          16.32%            (
-0
Revised May 5,1999



Financing Plan
(Costs include contingencies)
0 a
PC D
Use of Funds By Beneficiary                       _             IDA                EIB                              Interna  Iud            Toa                       ece0 
-CD
Unallocated                                                              $0                 $0           51,000,000               S0           $1,000,000N
Consolidated  Totals - ESIMP ODeration
Initial startup & Operating Expenditures                  $2,500,000                 $0                 $0                 $0           $2,500,000          2.75%
ESIMP Project Implementation and Change Management U      $2,900,000                 $0                 $0                 $0          $2,900,000           3.19%
General Management and Systems Design                     $1,700,000                 $0                 $0           $600,000          $2,300,000           2.53%
Organizational Restructuring and Pre-retirements                 $0                  $0                 $0          $2,100,000         $2,100,000           2.31%
Technology and Management Systems Implementation          $1,100,000                 $0            $300,000          $300,000           $1,700,000          1.87%
Networks Rehabilitation Project Management                       $0                  $0          $1,650,000                $0          $1,650,000           1.81%
Distribution Network Rehabilitation Work                  $5,200,000         $38,000,000        $29,050,000                $0         $72,250,000          79.40%
SCADA System                                                     $0                  $0          $3,000,000                $0          $3,000,000
Unallocated                                                      $0                  $0          $1,000,000                $0          $1,000,000           1.10%
Power Sector Institutional and Regulatory Frameworks        $900,000                 $0                 $0                 $0            $900,000           0.99%
Power Demand Projections and Tariff Studies                 $700,000                 $0                 $0                 $0            $700,000           0.77%
Sub-total       $15,000,000         $38,000,000        $35,000,000         $3,000,000        $91,000,000         100.00%
GRAND TOTAL           $15,000,0001        $38,000,000        $35,000,0001        $3,000,0001       $91,000,000|         100.00%        100.00%
M
CD
DISTRIBUTION OF TA, SYSTEMS DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION FUNDS, AND SPECIAL TRANSITION CHANGE MANAGEMENT FUNDS                                                            |
_____________ __  JDECO       SELCO 1             SELCO 2             HEPCo                PEA             TOTAL       % of ESIMP  |       
ESIMP Project Implementation and Change Management U      $1,700,000           $500,000                 $0           $600,000            $100,000       $2,900,000          3.19%          o
General Management and Systems Design                       $500,000           $500,000                 $0           $500,000            $200,000       $1,700,000          1.87%          :
Technology and Management Systems Implementation            $800,000           $200,000                  $0           $300,000           $100,000       $1,400,000          1.54%
PEA Sector Restructuring and Regulation                          $0                  $0                 $0                 $0           $1,600,000      $1,600,000          1.76%
Technical Project ManagementAssistance                      $800,000           $300,000            $250,000           $300,000                 $0       $1,650,000          1.81%         CD
Sub-total Technical Assistances                           $3,800,000          $1,500,000           $250,000         $1,700,000          $2,000,000      $9,250,000         10.16%         CD
System Design and Implementation contingency                $500,000           $200,000                  $0           $200,000                 $0         $900,000          0.99%
Organiza Restructuring /Pre-retirements (Self Financed)   $1,500,000           $200,000                  $0           $400,000                 $0       $2,100,000          2.31%
Total Administrative Restructuring and Technical Assis    5,800,000 $         1,900,000 $         250,000 $        2,300,000 $         2,000,000 $     12,250,000 $        13.46%
Percent of ESIMP Component by Beneficiary                       10.3%              13.5%              8.8%               15.5%              100.00%           13.46%           13.46%             3
,
CD
CD
mX
CD
Revised May 5,1999



Financing Plan
(Costs include contingencies)
0 -0
.~~~~~~~~ .
02
SUMMARY -- PHYSICAL NETWORK REHABILITATION WORK (EXCLUDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE)                                                                                   '
JOECo             SELCOI             SELCO 2            HEPCo              TOTAL               %
Funds from IDA                                           $5,000,000           $200,000                $0                $0           $5,200,000          6.827.
Funds from EIB                                          $38,000,000                $0                 $0                $0          $38,000,000         49.84%                           N
Funds from Italy                                         $8,400,000        $11,000,000         $2,600,000       $11,050,000         $33,050,000         43.34%
Total Financed from ESIMP                               $51,400,000        $11,200,000         $2,600,000        $11,050,000        $76,250,000        1100.000
Self-financing by Utilities                                     $0                 $0                 $0                 $0                 $0           0.00%1
Total Rehabilitation Work (Without Technical Assistance)       $51,400,000[        $11,200,000         $2,600,000       $11,050,000        $76,250,0001        100.00%
|Percentof Total ESIMP Budget                                 56.48%             12.31%              2.86%             12.14%             83.79%
JDECo             SELCO 1            SELCO 2            HEPCo               PEA              TOTAL             %
A) FINANCED UNDER ESIMP                                 ,
All Technical Assistances Financed by ESIMP              $3,800,000         $1,500,000           $250,000         $1,700,000         $2,000,000      $9,250,000         10.16%
Total Rehabilitation Work Financed by ESIMP             $51,400,000        $11,200,000         $2,600,000        $11,050,000                $0      $76,250,000        83.79%
Initial startup & Operating Expenditures                        $0          $1,000,000                $0         $1,500,000                 $0       $2,500,000         2.75%
Sub-total Financed Under ESIMP                          $55,200,000        $13,700,000         $2,850,000       $14,250,000          $2,000,000     $88,000,000        96.70%
Percents              63%                16%                 3%               16%                  2%            100%
B) SELF-FINANCED BY DISTRIBUTION UTILITIES
Total Rehabilitation Work Self-financed by Utlities       $500,000            $200,000                $0           $200,000                 $0         $900,000         0.99%
Self-financed Organizational Restucturing                $1,500,000           $200,000                $0           $400,000                 $0       $2,100,000         2.31%           m
Sub-total Self-Financed by UtIlIties                     $2,000,000           $400,000                $0           $600,000                 S0       $3,000,000         3.30%
Percent           66.67%|             13.33%              0.00%            20.00%              0.00%         100.00%  _     _
1 ~~~~~~~~~It0)
Total ESIMP                                             $57,200,0001       $14,100,000         $2,850,0001      S14,850,0001         $2,000,000     $91,000,000       100.00%           a
BREAK DOWN BY SOURCE OF FINANCING                             JDECo             SELCO I            SELCO 2            HEPCo               PEA            Unallocated        Totl        Percen  1
From IDA                                                        $7,800,000          $2,300,000                $0         $2,900,000         $2,000,000              $0     $15,000,000   16.48%
From European Investment Bank                                  $38,000,000                 $0                 $0                $0                 $0                      $38,000,000   41.760/
From ialian Loan                                                $8,400,000         $11,400,000         $2,850,000       $11,350,000                $0        $1,000,000    $35,000,000   38.46°/ R
From Self-financing                                             $2,000,000           $400,000                 $0          $600,000                 $0               $0      $3,000,000    3.30%  :
Total       $56,200,000        $14,100,000         $2,850,000        $14,850,000         $2,000,000      $1,000,000    $91,000,000   100.00i ,
Percent of Total ESIMP Operation    61.76%        -   1549%               3.13%       |     16.32°/.            .20°/.           1.10%              100.00°/          _
118. 6 3%/ 
M
5R(D
Revised MIay 5,1999



0-',
Implementation Schedule                                                                    >
FY2000           FY2001          FY2002           FY2003          FY2004                                , 0
Key Processing and Review Dates          I  - - III  IV   I                   _I III  IV  I  II  III  IV   I  -I III  IV   I                      NI III  IV
N
Board Presentation                    X
Effectiveness                             X
Project Launch Workshop                   X
Mid-Term Review                                                            X
Project Implementation
1. Rehabilitation Program:
(a) Ramallah Area Component (WB)              _       _  -             _       _   _
(b) Central and Bethlehem Areas
Components (EIB)
m
(c) Southern Area Component (Italy)                   _  _         _        _   _
(d) SCADA Component (Italy)                    _      _  _             _  _   _         _ _ -
II. Consultant Services, Studies, Training:
(a) PEA Sector Reform                          _      _  _             _  _         _      _  _ 
(b) Institutional strengthening of JDECo      __
(c) Institutional strengthening of SELCo       _   _  _  _   -   -         _ l
(d) Institutional strengthening of HEPCo      - _         -        -   - _
3
,a-u
.2.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 44
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 4
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
This annex provides details of the project's economic assumptions and an analysis of the project's
economic justification. It is based on the report of the Generation, Transmission and Distribution Master
Plans and Emergency Assistance Project for WBG carried out by international consultants (RKD) (see
Annex 13, Documents in Project File). These master plans established the need for a project that would
meet the growing demand for electricity in the central and southern parts of the West Bank in a least-cost
manner.
The rehabilitation of the electricity distribution system in the central and southern parts of the West
B3ank-the core of the proposed project-forms part of a large least-cost expansion program for the
power sector in the West Bank and Gaza. The program includes both rehabilitation and reconstruction of
the system and other measures to meet future demand. Despite this larger scope, the analysis concentrated
on the economic assessment of the project's rehabilitation package, which demonstrated that rehabilitation
is economically justified as the first step in the expansion program. It would be the least-cost means of
mneeting future incremental demand in the project area, and would be economically profitable.
Least-cost Justification
To establish that the proposed project represents the least-cost means of meeting incremental demand, the
cost associated with the project was compared with that of the most feasible alternative-self-generation
from small diesel sets. The project cost, estimated to be about US$91 million equivalent,' includes: (i)
investments in rehabilitation and system expansion to be incurred over the construction period of five
years; (ii) engineering and technical assistance; and (iii) a SCADA system for enhanced distribution
operations. Incremental fixed operation and maintenance costs were estimated at about 2 percent of total
capital investments. Additional imports necessitated by the incremental demand were estimated at current
IEC bulk power purchase price. The cost of the diesel alternative comprises capital, fixed and variable
operating costs, and fuel cost of the incremental generation or the long-run marginal cost of self-
generation. Table I provides details of cost of self-generation, and Table 2 presents the comparative cost
analysis in 1998 prices. Discount rates of 10 and 12 percent were used. The results confirmed that the
proposed project is the least-cost means of meeting incremental demand. The cost of self-generation was
20 and 15 percent higher at discount rates of 10 and 12 percent, compared with project costs.
Economic rate of return (ERR)
The ERR calculation was carried out for the period 2000-2022, covering the 5-year implementation
period (2000-2003), and about 17 years of operating life. The ERR for the project was estimated at about
23.0 percent, using the base case load growth scenario, and about 20 percent using the low load growth
scenario provided by the consultants. The results are relatively robust to changes in underlying parameter
values, and confrm the project to be economically sound. Computation of ERR is provided in Table 3.
Costs
The total investment package, including rehabilitation, technical assistance, and project management but
excluding price contingencies is estimated at US$84.8 million, and disbursement is spread over five
years. Investment expenditures were not shadow priced. Since equipment is procured at world prices, the
'Cost includes US$11.4 million in contingencies (US$6.2 million - physical; US$5.2 million - price)



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 45
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
selling price should reflect economic costs. To account for some level of further rehabilitation during the
forecast period, an expenditure of US$3 million was assured to take place in each of the years 2014-2016.
Labor costs were assessed at market wage rates. Given the high level of unemployment in the West Bank,
however, this is likely to overestimate the true opportunity cost of labor. On the other hand, if the labor
market should open up, market wage rates would be a good reflection of what Palestinian workers would
earn in alternative employment in neighboring countries.
Although there are plans for domestic electricity generation, it was assumed for the purpose of this
analysis that electricity will continue to be imported from Israel. The cost of electricity imports was
assessed at the current tariff charged by the EEC; i.e., NIS 0.2317 (about US¢6.6 per kWh). This tariff is
net of Israeli VAT, since the tax is reimbursed to the Palestinian Authority, and hence constitutes a de
facto Palestinian tax. This estimate for purchase power is conservative in as much as the long-run
marginal cost for generation and transmission was estimated by the consultants (studies noted above) to
be about NIS 0.18 per kWh at a 50 percent load factor.
Benefits
The RKD load forecast for the West Bank assumed an annual increase in energy demand of 3.0 percent:
(low scenario), 6.4 percent (base case), and 7.3 percent (high scenario) between 1996 and 2010. The
analysis used the base case growth assumption, adjusted to match the actual 1996 demand. Although the
project foresees some upgrading of distribution capacity, it would not provide a sufficient increase in
capacity to fully meet the projected demand. Based on the consultant's analysis, it was assumed that the
rehabilitated system would be able to meet an annual demand of about 800 GWh-enough to meet
demand until the year 2002 under low growth, but insufficient in the base case projection (see Figure 1).
In the absence of the project, the distribution system would continue to gradually disintegrate. For the
calculations, it was assumed that current capacity could be maintained until 1998, after which deliveries
would start to decrease by 3 percent per annum (see Figure 1). Avoiding this deterioration is the main
quantifiable benefit of the project.
The benefit of additional supply is equal to people's willingness to pay for the additional energy (see
Figure 2). Willingness to pay was measured as consumer surplus; that is, the area under the demand curve
in Figure 2. The demand function was derived from the consultant's load forecast, adopting the price
elasticity of -0.228 estimated in the RKD study.
In addition, it was assumed that a fraction of the suppressed demand occurring in the absence of the
project would be met through small-scale local generation. The level of auto-generation was determined
by economic efficiency. That is, auto-generation was assumed to take place up to the point where the
long-run marginal costs of generation are equal to the marginal willingness to pay of consumers (see
Figure 2). As people's willingness to pay rises over time, local generation becomes increasingly
important. The project would therefore lead to substantial cost savings by reducing the need for more
expensive local generation. The long-run marginal costs of own generation were calculated using data
from rural West Bank villages that currently produce power in this way (see Table 1).
A third quantifiable benefit is the reduction in technical losses. The current annual energy loss has, for
technical reasons, been estimated at about 11 percent (average for the central and southern West Bank;
based on the consultant study, and found to be reasonable during appraisal). In comparison, well-managed
power distribution systems of comparable consumer density and size would not usually experience
technical losses of more than 4 to 5 percent. However, given the scope of the investment, slightly higher
losses of 6.5 percent were taken as the target value of the project. In addition to technical losses, there are



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 46
Country: West Bank and Gaza                           Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
also substantial non-technical losses due, for example, to absent or inaccurate metering, and to illegal
connections. While a reduction in non-technical losses is important for the financial viability of the two
regional distribution companies, non-technical losses can be ignored in the economic analysis. They
constitute a financial transfer from electricity distributors to consumers, but not an economic benefit.
A fourth quantifiable benefit concerns the power factor penalty. Due to inadequate reactive compensation
capacity, the power factors currently observed in the central and southern West Bank systems are on the
order of about 0.90 and 0.83, respectively. As is common practice, IEC charges a penalty for power
factors of 0.92 or less. Lifting the power factor above this threshold is one of the goals, and would be one
of the benefits, of the rehabilitation project.
The final quantifiable benefit concerns the improved bargaining position in negotiations for power
imports, resulting in lower-cost imports. It was assumed that as of 2000 the newly created Southem
Electric Company would benefit from the same bulk rates as the already existing Jerusalem District
Electric Company. JDECo's current import tariffs are 3.1 percent lower than those of the municipalities
that would participate in the new southern utility.
In addition, there will be a series of non-quantifiable benefits associated with the project. These include,
most importantly:
*     an improvement in service quality; e.g., a reduction in the number and duration of power
outages, and better voltage control, reducing damage to customer appliances;
*     the creation of sufficient institutional capacity to plan subsequent power system expansions,
and the ability of institutions to finance a large portion of sector needs from their own
internal resources;
     a better basis for further rural electrification (where grid connection is economically
justifiable), as a result of the improved networks;
*     a reduced accident risk and increased public safety in the rehabilitated system, compared to
the status quo;
*     reduced air and noise pollution through the replacement of less efficient, unsightly, and
more polluting small-scale diesel generators.
Interpretation of results
The estimated ERR for the project in the base case is 23.0 percent. The net present value (NPV) amounts
to US$88.8 million at a 10 percent discount rate and US$63.0 million at 12 percent. Detailed calculations
are shown in Table 3.
It should be noted that the estimates are based on a conservative set of assumptions, and that the resulting
ERR and NPV should be interpreted as a lower-bound estimate. Assumptions that lead to an
underestimation of the ERR and NPV (i.e., an overestimation of project costs or an underestimation of
benefits) include:
*     Non-quantifiable benefits. The project would provide a number of non-quantifiable benefits
that were not included in the analysis (see above).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 47
Country: West Bank and Gaza                           Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
*     Electricity cost. Electricity was assumed to be imported from Israel at retail tariffs. The
alternative assumption that cheaper electricity would eventually become available (both with
and without project) - e.g., from domestic generation -leads to an increased ERR, as both
the cost and benefit estimate would change. On the cost side, lower import tariffs would
reduce the cost of electricity provision. This effect is partly, but not fully, offset by a lower
value assigned to the reduction in technical losses and the avoided power factor penalty.
Benefits would be higher because a decrease in costs would stimulate energy demand
(provided that cost savings are passed on to consumers). Without project, this additional
demand cannot be met, since the system is already constrained. With rehabilitation, the
additional demand can be met partially (in early years, before the rehabilitated system also
becomes insufficient to meet total demand).
*     Shadow pricing. Labor costs were assessed at market rates, even though there is
considerable unemployment in the West Bank. Thus, unless the labor market dramatically
improves, the opportunity costs of labor would be lower than assumed, and the local cost
element of the investment costs would be overestimated.
*     Operation and maintenance (O&Ak) costs. The calculations include the incremental O&M
cost arising from the additional investment. What was not included are the potential savings
in the O&M of existing structures that may occur as a result of the increased reliability of the
system, as well as savings from the rationalization of manpower use resulting from the
consolidation of municipal electricity departments into a more economic regional
distribution utility.
Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis was carried out with respect to a series of parameters, as shown in Table 4. The main
model parameters are shown in Table 5. The first set of results in Table 4 concerns sensitivity to the load
forecast. This analysis is important because future demand is one of the most uncertain parameters in the
analysis.
The most crucial parameters are those concerning the capacity of the system with and without project, and
the costs of self-generation. Since additional supply is the main quantifiable benefit of the project, ERR
results are highly sensitive to parameters affecting the size of this benefit. This importance is compounded
by the fact that capacity parameters are among the most uncertain in the analysis.
A final sensitivity analysis concerns the cost of electricity imports. ERR results are less sensitive to this
parameter. The analysis is nevertheless important because a change in generation costs is likely if projects
for domestic generation are pursued. The analysis is also interesting from a methodological point of view.
Assuming that all cost reductions are passed on to consumers, a reduction in import tariffs (or a switch
from importing to domestic generation) would lead to an increase in energy demand, which means that
the capacity constraint of the rehabilitated system would be reached earlier than previously anticipated.
Finally, the sensitivity analysis tested under what circumstances the ERR would fall below 10 percent.
Ten percent was assumed to be the threshold value that a satisfactory project would have to exceed.
Results are shown in Table 6.



F'roject Appraisal Document                                                                                         Page 48
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                           Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Table 1:Long-run Marginal Costs of Small-scale Diesel Generation
Fuel
Diesel price, CIF    ($/bbl)                     23.80                      world market price,
summer 1997
Ufnit conversion     (I/bbl)                      159
Exchange rate        (NIS/$)                     3.45
Diesel costs, CIF    (NISII)                     0.52
Transport cost, Israeli  (%/.)                   46%                        derived from PEA data
taxes
E.conomic cost, diesel  ($/I)                    0.22                       Israeli tax constitutes an
Economic cost, diesel  (NIS/1)                   0.75                       economic cost for WBG
VAT                  (%)                         17%
Selling price        ($/1)                       0.26
Selling price        (NISA)                      0.88
Generator
Capacity             (kW)                         150                       PEA data
Lifetime             (hrs)                      12,000                      PEA data, actuals
Lifetime             (years)                       4                        (nom: 20,000hrs, 7yrs)
Discount rate        (%)                         10%
Annual output        (MWh)                        450
Local distribution losses (%)                    30%                        PEA data, actuals
Output net of losses    (MWh)                     315
Auto-generation costs
Capital costs        ($)                        21,368
Annuitized capital costs ($)                     6,128
Annuitized capital costs (NIS)                  21,142
Energy value diesel    (kWh/I)                   3.50
Annual fuel costs    ($)                        28,030
Annual fuel costs     (NIS)                     96,703
O&M level            (% of cap. costs)            4%
Annual O&M costs    ($)                           855
Annual O&M costs    (NIS)                        2,949
Distribution cost    (% of gen. Cost)            35%
Annuitized distribution  ($)                     12,254
cost
Ainuitized distribution  (NIS)                  42,278
cost
Total costs at point of  ($)                    47,267
construction
Total costs at point of  (NIS)                  163,072
construction
Unit costs at cons. Point (USc/kWh)              15.01
Unit costs at cons. point (NIS/kWh)               0.52



0 -u
Table 2: Analysis of Least-cost Justification                                                                                                                                   a3C
2000  20011   2002      03     204     2005    20c       07     20    09       23, 2h    0.            03     2.421             06     207     21        09     22       01      22
Dinesel lntAltGemeatioe IGI)4                                      09 142 155 367 17.    0.                        2.       4     6.      8.       0    317.7  336.44  356.29  377.32  39.58  423.15  44.1,445650.6   322
Cost of Auto-generat-on                                   7.513.6351  18.63  21.82   25.0051 28.185 3.14  34.0951 37.051 39.78  4~2.495    45 4.6 50.471  53.444-  56.60   594 647 67221  71.181 75.38   79.83                                                   3
CD
System Expansion
En.&TcnclAsst.                              3.71  2.        2        1       II 
Total Capital Coast                                26.41 26.1I   17.8        8                                                                                                                            
FixedO)&M                                              10.61    3.21   1.541   1.541   1.541   3.4          15.5414   1545.54 1.541.54 454                        154,   1.541 -1.541   1.541   1.541. 1.           1.4      1.541   1.54
TtalCr morCat316                                                           82       9.6      I     12. 4    113.71   IS  16.31    7.5       8.71 19.84  20.)971  22.2    2.2      490 237          793 2.8 31.32   3317  35.13
Total Coals                   26.4  29.8      25   17.74   11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.14   1.4 3.94   15.24t  16.541 17.841  19.041 20.242.4 2.1      2.51  25.061  26.441 27.911  29.471 31.12   32.86   34.711 36.67
NPV of Cost.s                        10%DR    $090.54
12%DR    $164.57
Table 3: Economic Rate of Return Analysis
Ca ital C-t                 2000    2001    202      2003    204      20               07     20       09       2010      21      212 01  2         20 14     25         2016      2017      218       2019      22        2021      2022            m
Total                      ~~~~~26.4    26.11   17.81   8      6.5               0       0       0        0        0        0        00       0         3         3         3         0         00000
0
01    0.61    1.2     1.541.5 .1.54            .54    1.5.54    54 1.54         1.551.4           1.541   1.541      1.541     1.541     1.541     1.541     1.541     15         .4        .4       15
Incremental Energy Imports                     3.11      61    8.21    9.61    TII    l2.41    37         1       6.31    17.51    18.71   19.81  20.891   22.041   23.251   24.531   25.981   27.301   28.8              3039      3206      338
Total Costs                        126.41   29.81    251  17.741  17.641  12..541  33.941  15.241  1,44  17.841   19.041   20.241 21.341 22.4291 26.57791 27.789981 29.068731 27.4378]1 28.841091 30.342651 31.92679J 33.598071 35.36126                      5
Redn. Power Factor penalty               0     0.7      1.31    1.6     1.61    1.51    1,5      1.41    3.4      1.31      1.31     1.3      1.21    1.21      1.2      1.11      1.10      II  1.30  3.0       1.02      0.941    0.86       0.80 
Redn. In technical losses                       1.2     2.21    2.7     2.       26      2.5     2.4     2.3      2.3      2.21      2.1     2,1    2.00       1.91      1.82      1.74      1.66      1.58      1.51      1.44      1.37      1.31
Incr. System Fue Sav___                                                                                                                                             __20 4_23 4
Incr. Sstem Ful Savigs                             9.6    173220.123.48    34.5                                        37      39.5    43.9  44,41      47.08   4-9.00      52.90    -56.07      59.44     63.00     66.73   -70.79      75.04
Tota Benefi'ts                                 101      8.     2.      26.3    29.2   -32   -34.6    37.2    39.8         4.        4.6     46.9 49.3174 51-.89008  5T4.5345  5743-724 60. 5310-9 63.83906 67 22769  70.86016 74.72866 78.846181
Net Benefits                         .2.       M-97    -69     556     86       6.6 3.6   19.36   20.66   23.96          2336      2.3      5.5    26.9 .O   25.31   2-6.74    -28.37       33.13     34.98     36.89     38.93     43.13     43,483
(a) IO%IDR:  $TS88.3
(b) 12%/DR..  $63.00
O IRR:  230%                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
CO
CD
CD~



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                        Page 50
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Table 4: Sensitivity Analysis
Parameter                                                                  ERR (%)
Energy demand (base: RKD base scenario)
- RKD low scenario                                                        18.7
- RKD high scenario                                                       21.4
Supply with rehabilitation
(base: 800 GWhlyr)
- supply capacity for 750 GWh/yr                                          15.2
- supply capacity for 825 GWh/yr                                          24.5
Supply without rehabilitation
(base: 750 GWh 1 yr decreasing at 3% p.a after 1998)
- 750.GWh, decreasing at 1%                                               12.5
-750 GWh, decreasing at 4% p.a                                            25.0
Price of auto-generation (base: 15 US cents/kWh)
- 13 US cents / kWh                                                        16.4
- 18 US cents / kWh                                                        27.8
Price of electricity imports (with and without project)
(base: 6.6 US cents/kWh, constant)
- 10.0 US cents / kWh, constant                                            17.2
- 5.0 US cents / kWh, constant                                             22.5
- 6.6 US cents / kWh, growing at 3% p.a                                    21.6
Project-induced reduction in price of electricity imports
(base: 3.1 percent)
-0.0 percent                                                               21.6
-5.0 percent                                                               23.6
Table 5: Key Assumptions
Parameter                                                 Units                      Value
Distribution capacity w/o project                         Gwh / yr                   750, decreasing at 3% p.a.
Distribution capacity with project                        Gwh /yr                    800, constant
Power factor w/o project                                                               0.895
Power factor with project                                                              0.920
Technical losses w/o project                              % of imports                 11.1
Technical losses with project                             % of imports                  6.5
Operation and maintenance costs                           % of investment               2.0
Electricity import costs                                  US / kWh                      6.6
Current electricity tariff (weighted average)             USO / kWh                     11.2
Price elasticity of electricity demand                                               - 0.228
LRMC of small-scale auto-generation                       US) / kWh                     15.0
Difference bulk tariffto municipal tariff                 (% decrease)                  3.1



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                               Page 51
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                              Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Table 6: Switching Values (10 percent ERR cut-off)
Parameter Value
Low demand forecast                                     Base demand forecast
Capacray v/oproject                     750 GWh/yr, decr at >1.2%                   750 GWh/yr, decr. at >0.7%
(bas c.ase  5   Whydcraiga              800 GWh/yr, decr. at >2.2%                  800 GWh/yr, decr. at >1.9%
Capacity with project
(base case: 800 GWh/yr)                 >720 GWh/yr                                 >718 GWh/yr
Price of auto-generation                >11.5 USC/kWh                               >11.2 USO/kWh
(base case: 15 USO/kWh)
Price of electricity imports            < 12.6 USO/kWh                              <13.6 USg/kWh
(base case: 6.6 US c/kWh)
Note:    The table shows values for critical parameters at which the ERR is 10 percent or more. For example, assuming demand follows the
base forecast, an ERR of more than 10 percent is obtained if the price of electricity import (with and without project) remains below
13.6 USflkWh (everything else equal).
Figure 1: Electricity Demand and Distribution Capacity, 1996 - 2008
1000 -                  *      .
*                     I~~~~~~~~~~ 
900 .---*                                         ;--- - -
A                                            I '            Demand (base case)
800 - -           A- +  - --                _             a                ... Demand (low scenario)
3-.    - -A Demand (high scenario)
700 -                                                    ........         Maxdeliverywithproject
-0-Max delivery w/o project
600   - ---- ------------------    -------                           +Mxdlieywopojc
500      l
1996      1998     2000      2002      2004      2006      2008
year



F'roject Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 52
Country: West Bank and Gaza                              Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Figure 2: Economic Benefits in the ERR Calculation
LRMC autogeneration
Cost of el. import
l         _    __         _     _a_and
Q['/oJ [O wathj                            quantity
Note:
-Q (w/o) denotes the maximum delivery without project
-Q (with) denotes maximum delivery with project
-the dotted area denotes avoided cost of auto-generation
-the striped area denotes consumer surplus from incremental consumption
In any period of time, electricity is self-generated up to the point where the long-run marginal costs (LRMC) of
auto-generation equal consumers' marginal willingness to pay; i.e., the intersection with the electricity demand
curve. Increasing capacity from Q (w/o) to Q (with) eliminates the need for auto-generation (with cost savings equal
to the dotted area), and meets some but not all of the suppressed demand (with benefits equal to the striped area).
The graph depicts the demand situation in early periods (1998-2000). As demand grows over time (the demand
curve shifts to the top right), auto-generation becomes increasingly important, and eventually a quantity of Q (with)
or more would be self-generated in the absence of the project. In this case, the project would no longer lead to
additional consumption, but would simply replace self-generation of Q (with) - Q (w/o). This is the situation
observed from year 2001 onward (see Table 1).



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 53
Country: West Bank and Gaza                         Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 5
Financial Summary (HEPCo, JDECo, SELCo)
Main Assumptions Underlying Financial Forecasts for years 2000-2004
I. Hebron Electric Power Co. (HEPCo) and Southern Electric Company (SELCo)
Data sources: The 1998 financial data were taken from the records (unaudited) of the six
municipal electricity departments - the five founding members of SELCo (Yatta, Beit Omar.
Dahria, Halhul, Dura), and for HEPCo, from the municipality of Hebron. The financial data for
the years 2000 through 2004 have been forecasted based on historical data for 1998, which was
taken as the base year. Given the uncertain quality of recordkeeping by the municipalities, all
cost and sales figures should be taken as indicative only.
2.    Inflation Rate: Figures are expressed in current terms and reflect an annual inflation rate of 8
percent for the years 1999 to 2004.
3.     Financial Statements
(a)    Income Statements
l Revenue - Growth in sales of approximately 10 percent per year for HFPCo and 9.3
percent per year for SELCo was determined, reflecting improvement in commercial
operations and reductions in non-technical losses-see 3(c) below. This reflects historical
growth rates in consumer count and specific kWh consumption for residential and
commercial consumers.
*  Average revenues per kWh increased by 6 percent a year over 2000-2004 (2 percent less
than the inflation rate).
*  Average purchasing power is assumed to increase at 6 percent over the years 2000-2004.
* Participation fees for new residential and commercial consumers are taken at NIS 1,500,
based on the current fees for each new hookup. Similarly, participation fees for new
industrial consumers are taken at NIS 20,000.
*  30 percent of new consumer's participation fee is capitalized as fixed assets additions.
*  Bad debt expenses are estimated at 2 percent of electricity sales for each year.
*  Operations and maintenance expenses for 2000-2004 are based on 2 percent of the year-
end gross fixed assets balance for each year.
*  Wages and salaries expenses for 2000-2004 were estimated to increase by 15 percent
yearly.
*  Severance pay expense is estimated at 7 percent of total wages and salaries.
*  General and administrative expense is estimated at 40 percent of wages and salaries.
*  Other operating expenses are based on 10 percent of wages and salaries.
*  Depreciation expense is computed on a straight-line basis at the rate of 5 percent of the
gross fixed assets balance; new management systems are written off over an estimated
life of ten years.
*  SELCo management contract expenses (fixed fee and incentive payments) reflect the
management contract proposed by JDECo.
*  Interest expense on the foreign loans (IDA and Italy) reflect a 2.0 percent annual interest
rate.
*  Income taxes are calculated at 30 percent of net profit before taxes.
*  Board remuneration is assumed to be 2 percent of net profit from 2000 onwards.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 54
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
* Declared dividends are assumed to be 20 percent of net profit before income tax from
2000 onwards.
(b)    Balance sheets
*  Cash balances were derived on a residual basis.
*  For the years 2000-2004, improvement in collections results in lower levels average age
of accounts receivables. For HEPCothe average age of accounts receivables (days of
billings) is assumed to improve as follows: 150, 125, 110, 100 and 90 for years 2000-
2004 respectively. For SELCo, the average age of accounts receivables is forecasted to
improve from 125, 100, 82, 70 and 60 days over the same period as HEPCo above.
*  fixed assets for SELCo for year 2000, the initial balance (net after accumulated
depreciation) was estimated at NIS 10,000,000; and for HEPCo it was taken at NIS
20,000,000.
* Additions to fixed assets from 2000 and thereafter are based on the ESIMP investment
program.
*  Foreign loans reflect the ESIMP investment program for each company, less internal
contribution to the program of US$600,000 by HEPCo, and of US$400, 000 by SELCo.
*  Loan disbursements reflect the ESMIP investment program.
-  Share capital is determined at NIS 150,000 for SELCo, and at NIS 30,000 for HEPCo.
(c)    Electricity Losses (percent of electric purchases)
SELCo HEPCO
*  2000   20%        20%
*  2001    18%       17%
*  2002    15%       14%
e  2003    13%       11%
*  2004    11%       9%
rI. Jerusalem District Electric Company (JDECo)
4.     Data sources. The 1996-1998 financial data was taken from the audited financial statements. The
financial data for the years 1999 through 2004 were forecasted based on historical data and future
estimates. Two major changes have been introduced in the forecasted statements compared to
audited accounts as follows: (i) revaluation of fixed assets; and (ii) treatment of consumer
participation in the costs of capital projects. The latter reflects JDECo's accounting policy as
stated in their audited financial statements.
5.    Inflation Rate. Costs are expressed in current terms, with annual inflation taken at 8 percent for
the years 2000 to 2004.
6.    Financial Statenents
(a)    Income statements
*  Revenue: Overall kWh sales growth for financial forecasting purposes was taken at 4.6
percent per year. Consumer participation was calculated based on growth in new consumer
hookups-overall consumer count projected to grow from 103,000 at end 1998 to 114,500 by
end 2004.
*  Wages and salaries, starting from base year 1998, were estimated to increase by 15 percent a
year.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 55
Country: West Bank and Gaza                         Electrc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
*  Other Income is increased annually at the inflation rate of 8 percent, starting from the year
1999.
* Tariffs and the cost (price) of purchase power increase at 6 percent a year from years 2000-
2004, i.e., at 2 percent less that the assumed rate of increase in the CPI.
*  Operations and maintenance expenses are based on 2 percent of fixed assets balance for that
year.
*  Interest revenue is based on 20 percent of the average cash balances, and reflects actual
experience in the last three years.
* Interest expense on new foreign loans is calculated at 6 percent annually.
* Income tax is taken at 30 percent of net.
* Board remuneration is assumed to increase by 10 percent annually.
* Declared dividends are assumed to be 20 percent of net profit before income taxes from 2000
onwards.
(b)    Balance sheets
*  Cash on hand is derived on a residual basis.
*  Accounts receivable are derived from the days of sales equivalent, starting from 143 days of
sales in 1998, with a gradual improving trend to 90 days from year 2002 onward.
* Provision for doubtful debts is taken at 2 percent of sales.
- Other assets (which include accrued interest receivable, refundable deposits, fuel inventory
and prepaid expenses) are assumed to increase by 15 percent.
-  Cash restrictedfor severance pay, is assumed to increase by 90 percent of the provision taken
for that year annually, to gradually increase to match severance pay reserves in the liabilities.
* Additions to fixed assets from 1997 and thereafter are based on historic costs and future years
of the ESIMP investment program.
* Materials and supplies in stores were estimated at 15 percent of the gross fixed assets balance
for each year.
* Accounts payable are estimated at 7 percent of total electricity purchased and other operating
expenses.
* Other current liabilities and deferred revenue are increased by 8 percent per year., in line
with inflation.
* Reserve for severance pay is assumed to increase by 20 percent annually, in line with
monthly payroll.
* IDA credit balance remains constant during the forecast period, based on JDECo's
rescheduling provision with the concerned banks.
* New foreign loan amounts are based on the investment program, less a contribution of
US$2,000,000 from JDECo's internal funds flow.
* Repayment of the principal of foreign loans is assumed to start in 2003 (reflects three years of
grace on the ESIMP loans).
(c)    Electricity losses (percent of electricity purchased)
*  1998                        19% (actual)
*  1999                        18%
*  2000                        16%
*  2001                        13%
*  2002                        11%
*  2003                        9%
*  2004                        9%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 56
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                  Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Hebron Electric Power Company (To be created)
Years Ending 2000 through 2004
(Currency: NIS 000,000's)
Forecast                      Annual
2000      2001  l 2002       2003      2004    Growth
Income Statement Items
Sales (GWh)                                 78.4       84.7     92.8      102.6    115.7      10.2%
Revenues                                    40.0       46.5     82.3      96.6     116.1      30.5%
Operating income                             8.9       10.4     40.4      48.7      60.7
Net income after tax                         5.4       6.4      27.3      33.3      41.6
Funds Statement Items
Internal sources
- Net profit after tax (before debt service)  5.7     7.0      28.3      34.4      42.9
- Decrease (increase) in cash              (6.2)     (7.9)    (24.0)    (29.2)    (36.2)
- Adjustment for item not involving cash    2.8       4.2       6.0       6.9      7.8
- Depreciation                            1.8       3.1       4.1      4.7       5.1
- Provision for severance pay            0.23       0.27     0.32      0.37      0.43
- Provision for bad debts                 0.8       0.9       1.6       1.8      2.2
Internal sources                             2.3       3.3       10.4     12.2      14.4
Borrowings                                   11.6      20.0      16.0      8.0      4.4
Equity investment                            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Sources                                 13.8      23.3      26.3      20.2     18.8
Capital expenditures                        (13.0)    (22.0)    (18.2)    (10.2)    (7.1)
Changes in working capital                   1.1       1.4       1.5      1.6       2.6
Board remuneration                          (0.2)     (0.2)     (0.8)     (1.0)     (1.2)
Dividends                                   (1.6)     (1.8)     (7.8)     (9.5)    (11.9)
Debt service                                (0.2)     (0.6)     (1.0)     (1. 1)    (1.3)
Total Applications                             (13.8)    (23.3)    (26.3)    (20.2)    (18.8)
Balance Sheet Items
Current assets                              27.8       34.1     65.4      94.3     130.2
Current liabilities                          4.6       5.3       15.6     18.8      23.3
Net Fixed Assets                                      31.2      50.1      64.2      69.7     71.6
Total Assets                                  59.0       84.3     129.6    164.0    201.8       36.0%
Debt                                                  16.8      38.3      65.9      78.6      89.2
Equity                                                42.2      45.9      63.7      85.4     112.7      27.8%
Total Liabilities and Equity                59.0       84.3     129.6    164.0    201.8
Operating income as % of revenue                      22%       22%       49%       50%      52%
Vet income as a% of revenue                           14%        14%      33%       34%      36%
Return on average invested capital                    13%        14%      50%       45%      42%
Debt service coverage|                                36.0       16.9     33.9      34.2      38.2
Selffinancing ratio                                   0.61      0.58      1.45      1.83     3.25
Current ratio                                         6.06      6.50      4.20      5.02     5.60
Debt: debt & equity                                   22%       41%       44%       41%      36%
kWh losses (as % of purchases)                        20%        17%      14%       11%       9%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 57
Country: West Bank and Gaza                              Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Hebron Electric Power Company (To be created)
Balance Sheets
(Currency: NIS 000's)
Forecast
2000        2001          2002         2003         2004
Current Assets
Cash                                      13,747       21,627       45,599        74,787      111,019
Accounts receivable                       15,527       14,809       23,686        25,232       27,108
Provision for doubtful debts              -1,427       -2,292       -3,863        -5,705       -7,904
Total current assets                            27,848       34,144       65,421        94,314      130,223
Fixed Assets
Fixed assets                              32,956       54,981       73,198        83,402       90,470
Accumulated depreciation                  -1,766       -4,835       -8,978       -13,713      -18,845
Total fixed assets                              31,190       50,146       64,220        69,690       71,625
Total Assets                                    59,038       84,290      129,641       164,0031     201,848
Current Liabilities
Income tax                                 2,331        2,732        11,707       14,261       17,840
Electricity purchases- IEC                 1,981        2,186        2,450         2,775        3,242
Board remuneration                           155          182          780          951         1,189
Current portion of LT debt                                  0            0            0            0
Declared dividends                           130          152          650          792          991
Total current liabilities                        4,597        5,252       15,588        18,779       23,262
Long-term debt                                  11,802       32,387       49,314        58,440       64,086
Reserve for severance pay                         426           700        1,025         1,398        1,827
Total operating liabilities                     16,825       38,340       65,927        78,618       89,175
Shareholders equity
Share capital (par value)                    30            30           30           30           30
Retained earnings                         10,458       14,830       33,561        56,379       84,922
Shareholder reserve                       31,725       31,089       30,123        28,977       27,720
Total shareholders equity                       42,213       45,949       63,714        85,386      112,673
Total liabilities and shareholders equity       59,038       84,290      129,641       164,003      201,848
Debt: debt & equity                           22%          41%          44%          41%          36%
Days ofsales in receivables                   150          125          110           100          90
Current ratio                                 6.06         6.50         4.20         5.02         5.60



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 58
Country: West Bank and Gaza                             Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Hebron Electric Power Company (To be created)
Income Statements
(Currency: NIS 000's)
Forecast
2000        2001        2002         2003        2004
Revenues
Electricity sales                          37,783       43,242      78,595       92,098     109,938
Doubtful debts                               -756         -865      -1,572       -1,842      -2,199
Consumer participation                      2,992        4,118       5,282        6,295       8,313
Total revenues                                   40,019       46,495      82,305       96,551     116,053
Operating expenses
Electricity purchased                      23,772       26,231      29,395       33,300      38,905
Depreciation                                 1,766       3,070       4,143        4,734       5,133
Repair and maintenance                        400          659        1,100       1,464        1,668
Severance pay expense                         232         275          325         373          429
Wages and salaries                          3,309        3,926       4,636        5,331       6,131
General and administrative expenses          1,324       1,570        1,854       2,133       2,452
Other operating expenses                      331         393          464         533          613
Total operating expenses                         31,133       36,124      41,916       47,868      55,331
Operating income                                   8,887      10,371      40,389       48,683      60,722
TA performance bonus                               -168         -168        -168            0           0
Technical assistance                               -716         -460        -230            0           0
Interest expenses                                  -231         -635        -967       -1,146       -1,257
Net profit for the year (before income tax)        7,771       9,108       39,024      47,537       59,465
Allocation of profit
Income tax                                  2,331        2,732      11,707       14,261       17,840
Board remuneration                            155          182         780          951        1,189
Declared dividends                           1,554       1,822       7,805        9,507       11,893
Retained earnings                           3,730        4,372       18,731      22,818      28,543
Total allocation                                   7,7711      9,1081     39,0241      47,537F     59,465
Times interest earned                           35           15          41           42          48
Return on total assets                          9%           8%          21%         20%          21%
Return on net worth                             13%         14%          43%         39%          37%
Operating ratio                                 78%         78%          51%         50%          48%



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 59
Country: West Bank and Gaza                       Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Hebron Electric Power Company (To be created)
Sources and Applications of Funds
(Currency: NIS 000's)
Forecast
2000       2001       2002       2003       2004
Operating income                           8,887     10,371     40,389     48,683     60,722
Depreciation                               1,766      3,070      4,143      4,734      5,133
Subtotal                            10,652     13,441     44,532     53,417     65,854
Less:
Interest                                231         635        967      1,146      1,257
Changes in working capital            (1,056)    (1,373)    (1,458)    (1,645)    (2,607)
Principal                                  0          0          0          0          0
Dividends                              1,554      1,822      7,805      9,507     11,893
Taxes                                  2,331      2,732     11,707     14,261     17,840
Board remuneration                       155        182        780        951      1,189
Other                                  (987)    (1,140)    (1,896)    (2,215)    (2,628)
Subtotal                            2,229      2,858      17,905    22,005     26,943
Funds available for investment             8,423    10,583      26,627     31,412     38,911
Investment program                       13,840     22,654     18,615     10,204      7,068
Financing gap                            (5,417)   (12,071)     8,012     21,208     31,843
Financed by:
ESIMP loans                            11,571     19,950     15,960      7,980      4,389
Borrowings, other                          0          0          0          0          0
Subtotal                            11,571     19,950     15,960      7,980      4,389
Cash increase (decrease)                   6,154     7,879      23,972     29,188     36,232
Cash beginning of year                  7,593     13,747     21,627     45,599     74,787
Cash end of year                       13,747     21,627     45,599     74,787    111,019
Debt service coverage ratio              36.0       16.9       33.9       34.2       38.2
Selffinancing ratio                      0.61       0.58       1.45       1.83       3.25
Proposed tariff increase                             6%         6%         6%         6%
Assumed CPI increase                                 8%         8%         8%         8%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 60
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                   Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Southern Electric Company
Years Ending 2000 through 2004
(Currency: NIS 000's)
Forecast                           Annual
_    2000        2001        2002         2003        2004     Growth
Income Statement Items
Sales (GWh)                                    38.2        41.1        44.7         49.1        54.5    9.30
Revenues                                     18,667      21,640      24,710       28,316      33,016    15.3/
Operating income                              3,328       2,668       2,261        3,016       4,774
Net income after tax                        (1,493)      (1,277)       (750)      1,303       2,534
Funds Statement Items
Internal sources
- Net profit after tax (before debt service)  (1,091)    (473)        270        2,458       3,688
- Increase in cash                          (1,834)    (2,032)      (3,021)     (5,435)     (5,934)
- Adjustment for items not involving cash    2,041       3,272        4,047       4,518       4,687
- Depreciation                             1,622       2,753       3,415        3,795       3,852
- Provision for severance pay               100          158         223         257          296
- Provision for bad debts                   319          362         409         466         539
Internal sources                              (884)        768        1,297       1,541       2,440
Borrowings                                  20,118       20,118      10,794       6,691           0
Total Sources    19,234       20,886      12,091       8,232       2,440
Capital expenditures                       (20,545)    (20,732)    (11,559)      (7,605)      (1,146)
Changes in working capital                  (1,713)        651         488          937         657
Board Remuneration                               0           0           0          (37)        (72)
Dividends                                        0           0           0         (372)       (724)
Debt service                                  (402)       (805)      (1,021)     (1,154)      (1,154)
Total Applications    (22,661)    (20,886)    (12,091)    (8,232)      (2,440)
Balance Sheet Items
Current assets                               7,320        8,424      10,641      15,433      20,926
Current liabilities                           948        1,032       1,126        1,886       2,640
Net fixed assets                            28,923       46,903      55,046      58,856       56,150
Total Assets    36,244      55,326       65,688      74,290      77,077    20.8°
Debt                                        21,216       41,576      52,688      60,396       61,446
Equity                                       15,027      13,750      13,000       13,893      15,631     1.0%
Total Liabilities and Equity  36,244     55,326       65,688      74,290      77,077
Operating income as a% ofrevenue                    18%         12%          9%          11%         14%
Net Income as a% of Revenue                         -8%          -6%         -3%          5%          8%
Return on average invested capital                 -10%         -9%          -6%         10%         17%
Debt service coverage                               12.3         6.7          5.6         5.4         6.5
Selffinancing ratio                                 0.27        0.24         0.28        0.42        0.95
Current ratio                                        7.7         8.2          9.5         8.2         7.9
Debt :debt & equity                                 57%         75%         80%          81%         79%
kWh losses (as % ofpurchases)                       20%         18%          15%         13%         11%
Purchases kWh                                       47.8        50.0        52.5         56.5        61.3



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 61
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                   Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Southern Electric Company
Balance Sheets
(Currency: NIS 000's)
Forecast
2000           2001           2002           2003          2004
Current Assets
Cash                                             1,834           3,865          6,886         12,321       18,255
Accounts receivable                              6,038           5,472          5,078         4,901         4,998
Provision for doubtful debts                     (552)           (913)        (1,322)        (1,789)       (2,327)
Total current assets                                  7,320          8,424          10,641        15,433        20,926
Fixed Assets
Fixed assets                                    30,545          51,277         62,836        70,441        71,587
Accumulated depreciation                        (1,622)        (4,375)        (7,790)       (11,585)      (15,437)
Total fixed assets                                   28,923         46,903          55,04         58,856        56,150
Total Assets                                         36,24           55,326         65,688        74,290        77,077
Current Liabilities
Income tax                                           0              0               0           558          1,086
Electricity purchases- IEC                         948           1,032          1,126          1,25         -1,421
Board remuneration                                   0              0              0             37            72
Declared dividends                                   0              0              0             31            60
Total current liabilities                              948            1,032          1,126         1,886         2,640
ESIMP loans                                          20,118         40,237          51,031        57,722        57,722
Reserve for severance pay                               150            308            531            788         1,084
Total operating liabilities                          21,216         41,576          52,688        60,396        61,446
Shareholders equity
Share capital (par value)                          150            150             150           150           150
Retained earnings                               2,730           1,452            702          1,596         3,333
Shareholders reserve                            12,148            1             2,148         12,148       12,148
Total shareholders equity                            15,027          13,750         13,000        13,893        15,631
Total liabilities and shareholders equity            36,244         55,326          65,688        74,290        77,077
Debt: Debt & Equity                                    57%            75%            80%            81%           79%
Days of sales in receivables                            125            100             82             70           61
Current ratio                                           7.7             8.2            9.5           8.2           7.9



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 62
Country: West Bank and Gaza                              Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Southern Electric Company
Income Statements
(Currency: NIS 000')
Forecast
.______________________________________      2000        2001        2002        2003       2004
Revenues
Electricity sales                          17,564      19,955     22,570      25,736     29,733
Doubtful debts                              (319)        (362)      (409)       (466)      (539)
Consumer participation                      1,423       2,046      2,548       3,046      3,821
Total revenues                                    18,667      21,640     24,710      28,316     33,016
Operating expenses
Electricity purchased                      11,371      12,380      13,508     15,112      17,056
Depreciation                                1,622       2,753      3,415       3,795      3,852
Repair and maintenance                       100         305         513         628        704
Severance pay expense                        100          158        223        257         296
Wages and salaries                          1,431       2,250      3,193       3,672      4,222
General and administrative expenses          572          900       1,277      1,469       1,689
Other operating expenses                     143         225         319         367        422
Total operating expenses                          15,339      18,971     22,449      25,300     28,242
Operating income                                   3,328       2,668      2,261       3,016      4,774
Incentive management fee                            (840)       (840)      (840)          0          0
Fixed management fee                              (3,580)     (2,301)    (1,151)          0          0
Interest expenses                                  (402)        (805)    (1,021)    (1,154)    (1,154)
Net profit for the year (before income tax)       (1,493)     (1,277)      (750)      1,862      3,620
Allocation of profit
Income tax                                     0            0          0         558       1,086
Board remuneration                              0           0          0          37         72
Declared dividends                              0           0          0         372        724
Retained earnings                          (1,493)     (1,277)      (750)        894       1,737
Total allocation                                  (1,493)     (1,277)      (750)      1,862      3,620
Times interest earned                               (2.7)       (0.6)       0.3          2.6        4.1
Return on total assets                             -4.1%       -2.3%       -1.1%       1.8%       3.3%
Return on net worth                                 -10%         -9%        -6%          90/0      16%
Operating ratio                                     82%         88%         91%         89%        86%



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 63
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Southern Electric Company
Sources and Applications of Funds
(Currency: NIS 000's)
Forecast
2000        2001        2002         2003        2004
Operating income                           3,328       2,668        2,261       3,016       4,774
Depreciation                               1,622       2,753        3,415       3,795        3,852
Subtotal                             4,950        5,421       5,676       6,811        8,626
Less:
Interest                                 402         805        1,021        1,154       1,154
Changes in working capital             (1,713)      (651)        (488)       (937)       (657)
Principal                                  0           0            0           0           0
Dividends                                  0           0            0         372         724
Taxes                                      0           0            0         558        1,086
Board remuneration                         0           0            0          37          72
Other                                   (419)       (519)        (632)       (723)       (834)
Subtotal                            (1,730)       (365)       (100)        462        1,546
Funds available for investment             6,680       5,787        5,776       6,349        7,081
Investment program                       24,965       23,873      13,549        7,605       1,146
Financing gap                           (18,285)    (18,087)       (7,773)     (1,256)      5,934
Financed by:
ESIMP loans                            20,118      20,118       10,794       6,691           0
Borrowings, other                           0           0            0           0           0
Subtotal                            20,118       20,118      10,794       6,691           0
Cash increase (decrease)                   1,834       2,032        3,021       5,435        5,934
Cash beginning of year                      0        1,834       3,865       6,886       12,321
Cash end of year                        1,834       3,865        6,886      12,321       18,255
Debt service coverage ratio              12.3          6.7         5.6         5.4          6.5
Selffinancing ratio                      0.27         0.24        0.28        0.42         0.95
Proposed tariff increase                              6%           6%          6%          6%
Assumed CPI increase                                   8%          8%          8%           8%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                         Page 64
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                    Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Jerusalem District Electricity Corporation
Years Ending 1996 through 2004
(Currency: NIS 000,000's)
Audited                                       Forecast                              Annual
1996  [  1997     1998      1999     2000     2001  |   2002          2003        2004     Growth
Income Statement Items
Sales (GWh)                                     492       548      581       598      625      653          686          717       750    4.6%
Revenues                                         165      199      220       227      251      277          308          341       378    10.8%
Operating income                                  15       11        9        10       11        12          14           18         18
Netincomeaftertax                                 17       15       17        19       16        18          20           28        34
Funds Statement Items
Internal sources
-Net profit aftertax (before debt service)       17       15       17        19       19       25           31           40        47
- Decrease (increase) in cash                   (25)      (7)       (8)      20      (15)      (I8)        (25)         (24)       (28)
- Adjustment for item not involving cash          6       10       14        20       24       30           36           40        44
-Depreciation                                   1        2        2        6         9       14           17           19        20
-Provisionforseverancepay                      4         8       12        11       12       14           16           19        22
-Provision for bad debts                       0         0        0        2         2        2            2            2         2
Internal sources                                  (2}      18       23        59       28       37           42           57        62
Borrowings                                         0        0        0       -         45        77          62           31         17
Equity investment                                  0        0        0          0        0        0            0            0         0
Total Sources      (2)      18       23        59       72       114          104          88        79
Capital expenditures                              (1)      (7)       (8)     (10)     (46)      (80)        (64)         (32)       (18)
Changes in working capital                       3.4      (10)     (13)      (43)     (19)      (22)         (23)        (24)       (26)
Board remuneration                              (0.0)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.1)          (0.1)        (0.2)     (0.2)
Dividends                                         (1)      (1)       (1)      (5)    (4.0)       (5)         (6)          (8)       (10)
Debt service                                     0.0      0.0      (0.6)    (0.3)    (3.0)       (8)        (11)         (23)       (26)
Total Applications      2       (18)     (23)     (59)      (72)    (114)        (104)         (88)      (79)
Balance Sheet Items
Current assets                                   107      127      157       126      144       170         203          237       274
Cunrent liabilities                               36       41       53        29       29        31          45           54        62
NetFixedAssets                                           9       70       86        90      127       194         241          254       251
Total Assets    127       193      242      225       293      400          496          562       618    22.4%
Debt                                              78       95      123         4       49       126         177          195        198
Equity                                            49       98      120       133      144       157          171         191       216    10.2%
Total Liabilities and Equity   127      193      242      225       293      400          496          562       6I8
Operaling income as % ofrevenue                       8.8%     5.4%      4.1%     4.4%     4.4%      4.4%         4.4%         5.2%      4.8%
Net income as%ofrevenue                              10.3%      7.6%     7.5%     8.3%      6.5%     6.4%         6.6%         8.3%      9.1%
Return on average invested capital                     57%/     21%      15%       15%      12%       12%          12%         16%        17%
Debh service coverage                                   0.7     N/A       35.1     77.1       9.4      5.1          4.3          2.6       2.6
Selffhancing ratio                                   11.46     2.85      3.04    (1.19)    0.77      0.46         0.43         0.42      0.76
Current ratio                                           3.0      3.1      3.0       4.3      5.0       5.5          4.5         4.4        4.4
Debt:kdebt & equity                                    719/      4%       3%        3%      25%       45%         51%          51%       48%
kWh losses(ais %ofpwrchases)                           19%      17%      1%        18%      16%       13%          11%          9%         9%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                    Page 65
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                                 Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Jerusalem District Electricity Corporation
Balance Sheets
(Currency: NIS 00's)
Audited                                            Forecast
1996       1997 1  1998          1999       2000        2001   i  2002        2003         2004
Current Assets
Cash on hand and at banks                   46,488     53,579     61,398     41,158      56,046     74,002     98,978     122,511      150,638
Accounts receivable                         56,743     68,654     86,102     74,766      73,248     70,562     70,664      78,308       86,894
Provision for doubtful debts                (6,000)    (6,000)    (6,000)    (8,398)   (10,529)   (12,521)   (14,496)    (16,499)      (18,597)
Materials and supplies in stores             9,560     10,093     14,659      16,853     23,820     35,832     45,442      50,247      52,889
Other current assets                          490         832      1,118       1,286      1,479      1,700      1,955       2,249       2,586
Total current assets                             107,281    127,158    157,277    125,665    144,064    169,575    202,543      236,816     274,410
Restricted Assets
Cash at bank- for severance pay             10,802     16,138     23,747     34,476      46,814     61,003     77,320      96,085      117,664
Fixed Assets
Operating assets                            15,310     83,789    102,142    112,356    158,803    238,883    302,947      334,979     352,596
Accumulated depreciation                    (5,932)   (13,674)   (16,021)   (22,425)   (31,477)   (45,093)   (62,361)    (81,455)   (101,553)
Net operating assets                         9,378     70,115     86,121     89,931    127,326    193,789    240,585      253,524     251,043
Deferred consuner participation                       (20,873)   (25,057)   (25,057)   (25,057)   (25,057)   (25,057)    (25,057)    (25,057)
Investments                                           11        232        275        275        275         275        275         275         275
Conscession rights                                     1         50         50         50         50          50         50          50          50
Total assets                                     127,473    192,820    242,413    225,339    293,471    399,635    495,717      561,692      618,385
Current Liabilities
Duetobanks                                     862      6,158      7,234        661        661         661        661         661         661
Accountspayable                             17,842     18,811     24,474      12,041     13,028     13,951      15,183     16,466       18,265
Provision for income tax                     7,212     11,059      15,763      8,030      6,972      7,576       8,757     12,083       14,712
Dividends payable                            1,826      2,323      2,952      5,353       4,648      5,051      5,838       8,055        9,808
Current portion of long-term debt                         -          -          -           -          -        10,819      12,751      13,885
Other current liabilities                    8,143      2,723      2,877      3,107       3,356      3,624      3,914       4,227       4,565
Total current liabilities                         35,885     41,074     53,300     29,193      28,664     30,864     45,173      54,244      61.896
Deferred revenue                                   9,668     12,650     16,969        -           -          -          -           -           -
Reserve for severance pay                         29,324     37,162     48,769     59,498      71,836     86,025    102,342     121,107      142,686
ESIMP loans                                                                           -        44,822    122,102    173,107     191,268      194,385
Extemal financing                                  3,575      3,850      3,850      3,850       3,850      3,850      3,850       3,850        3,850
Total operating liabilities                       78,452     94,736    122,S88     92,541    149,172    242,841    324,472      370,469     402,817
Shareholders equity
Share capital                                    1      3,750      3,750      3,750       3,750      3,750      3,750       3,750        3,750
Retained earnings, beginning of year        (7,397)     8,667     22,829     37,923      51,197     62,697     75,193      89,643      109,622
Contribution for the year                   16,064     14,162     15,094      13,274     11,500     12,495     14,451      19,979      24,345
Retained eamings, end of year                8,667     22,829     37,923     51,197      62,697     75,193     89,643     109,622      133,967
Special reserve                             40,353     40,353     40,353     40,353      40,353     40,353     40,353      40,353      40,353
Fixed assets revaluation reserve               -       29,277     35,624      35,624     35,624     35,624     35,624      35,624       35,624
Cornpulsory reserve                                     1,875      1,875       1,875      1,875      1,875      1,875       1,875        1,875
Total shareholders equity                         49,021     98,084    119,525    132,799    144,299    156,795    171,245      191,224     215,569
Total liabilities and shareholders equity        127,473    192,820    242,413    225,340    293,472    399,636    495,717      561,693     618,386
Debt: debt& equity                                70/o       4%         3%         3%         25%        45%         51%        51%         48%
Days of sales in receivables                      125        126        143         130        115        100         90         90          90
Current ratio                                     3.0        3.1        3.0        4.3        5.0         5.5        4.5        4.4         4.4



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 66
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                   Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Jerusalem District Electricity Corporation
Income Statements
(Currency: NIS 000's)
Audited                                        Forecast
1996       1997      1998       1999      2000       2001      2002   l  2003       2004
Revenues
Electricity sales                151,148    181,351    203,871   209,919   232,482    257,551    286,584   317,583    352,405
Doubtful debts                       -          -         -       (4,198)   (4,650)    (5,151)    (5,732)   (6,352)    (7,048)
Consumer participation            10,826     13,232    11,732    16,011     17,612     19,373    21,310    23,441      25,785
Other income                       3,190      4,089     4,590     4,769      5,151      5,563      6,008     6,489      7,008
Total Revenues                         165,164    198,672   220,193   226,501    250,595    277,336    308,170   341,162    378,151
Operating Expenses
Electricity purchased            121,981    149,530    161,803   164,831    178,202    190,610    207,330   224,707    249,346
Depreciation                       1,466      1,894     2,347     6,404      9,052     13,616     17,268    19,094     20,098
Operation and maintenance          5,011      5,051     7,064     2,247      3,176      4,778     6,059      6,700     7,052
Wages and salaries                13,308     17,352    20,732    23,842     27,418     31,531    36,260    41,699      47,954
Other operating expenses           3,715      5,896     6,534     7,187      7,906      8,697     9,566    10,523      11,575
Provision for severance pay        5,125      8,134    12,630    11,921     13,709     15,765     18,130    20,850    23,977
Total operating expenses               150,606    187,857   211,110   216,433    239,463    264,996    294,614   323,573    360,003
Operating income                        14,558     10,815     9,083    10,068     11,133     12,339    13,556    17,588     18,148
Interest revenues/expenses
Interest:revenues                  9,074     11,396    17,531    17,029     15,127     20,572    27,001    35,260      43,719
Existing loans interestexpense      (460)     (284)      (553)     (331)      (331)     (331)      (331)      (331)     (331)
ESIMP loans interest expense                    -                           (2,689)    (7,326)   (11,036)  (12,241)   (12,496)
Netinterestrevenue/expense               8,614     11,112    16,978    16,698     12,107     12,915    15,635    22,688     30,893
Management contract revenue        |                            -
Net income (before income tax)         23,172     21,927     26,061    26,767     23,240     25,254    29,191     40,276    49,040
Allocation of net income
Income tax                         6,192      6,745     9,540     8,030      6,972      7,576     8,757    12,083      14,712
Board remuneration                   44         83         99       109        120       132        145       159        175
Declared dividends                  872        938      1,328     5,353      4,648      5,051     5,838      8,055     9,808
Retained earnings                 16,064     14,161    15,094    13,274     11,500     12,495     14,451    19,979    24,345
Total allocation                       23,172     21,927    26,061    26,767    23,240      25,254     29,191    40,276     49,040
Times interest earned                  51.4       78.2      48.1       82.0       8.7       4.3        3.6        4.2       4.8
Return on total assets                 13%        8%         7%        8%         6%        4%         4%         5%        6%
Return on net worth                    35%        15%        14%       14%       11%        11%        12%       15%        16%
Operating ratio                        91%        95%       96%        96%       96%        96%        96%       95%        95%
Provisionfor doubful accounts as % of sales                            2%         2%        2%         2%         2%        2%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 67
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                       Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Jerusalem District Electricity Corporation
Sources and Applications of Funds
(Currency: NIS 000's)
Audited                                    Forecast
1996     1997  1  i998     1999     2000     2001      2002     2003       2004
Operating income                          14,558   10,815    9,083   10,068   11,133   12,339   13,556   17,588        18,148
Depreciation                               1,466    1,894    2,347    6,404    9,052   13,616   17,268   19,094        20,098
Subtotal                            16,024   12,709   11,430   16,472   20,184   25,956   30,824   36,682        38,246
Less:
Interest                                460        0       553      331    3,020    7,657   11,366   12,572        12,827
Increase in working capital            7,664   29,915   39,693   29,704    4,040    5,356    4,502    3,600         2,949
Principal repayment                   25,861       0         0        0        0        0        0   10,819        12,751
Dividends                               872      938    1,328    5,353    4,648    5,051    5,838    8,055          9,808
Taxes                                  6,192    6,745    9,540    8,030    6,972    7,576    8,757   12,083        14,712
Board remuneration                       44       83        99      109      120      132       145      159          175
Cash allocated for severance pay
Other                                (37,654) (23,944)  (37,925)      0        0        0        0         0           0
Subtotal                            3,439   13,737   13,288   43,526   18,800   25,771   30,609   47,288         53,223
Plus:
Non-operating income                   9,074   11,396   17,531   17,029   15,127   20,572   27,001   35,260        43,719
Intemal funds available for investment   21,659   10,368   15,673  (10,025)   16,511   20,756   27,216   24,654        28,742
Investment program                         503    7,128    7,854   10,214   46,446   80,080   64,064   32,032         17,618
Financing gap                            21,156    3,240    7,819  (20,239)  (29,935)  (59,324)  (36,848)  (7,378)    11,124
Financed by:
ESIMP loans                                                           0   44,822   77,280   61,824   30,912         17,002
Borrowings, other                       3,575    3,850
Subtotal                             3,575    3,850        0        0   44,822   77,280   61,824   30,912        17,002
Cash increase (decrease)                 24,731    7,090    7,819  (20,239)   14,887   17,956   24,976   23,534        28,126
Cash beginning of year                 18,026   46,489   53,579   61,398   41,158   56,046   74,002   98,978       122,511
Cash end of year                       42,757   53,579   61,398   41,158   56,046   74,002   98,978  122,511       150,638
Debt service coverage ratio                I   N/A         35.1     77.1      9.4       5.1      4.3      2.6          2.6
Selffinancing ratio                    11.46     2.85     3.04    (1.19)    0.77      0.46     0.43     0.42         0.76
Proposed tariff increase                                             0%       6%       6%        6%       6%           6%
Assumed CPI increase                                                 8%       8%       8%        8%       8%           8%



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 68
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
General
The responsibility for procurement has been described in Section C. para. 4(a) and (b) of the main
text.
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
The project elements, their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements for the
components to be financed by the IDA credit are shown in Table A. All IDA-financed civil
works, equipment and materials, and consultant services would be procured under the relevant
Guidelines published by the World Bank.
Works
All civil works undertaken under the project are small and most are labor-intensive and do not
require highly specialized skills. These works would be procured through national competitive
bidding (NCB) acceptable to IDA. Said procedures shall ensure, inter alia, that: (i) tenders shall
be advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii)
prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days between the date upon which
the notification appears in the newspaper for the first time and the date upon which the bid is
submitted; (iii) the format of the bidding documents shall be consistent with that of IDA's
standard bidding documents, or with the format of bidding documents used by United Nations
agencies operating in the West Bank and Gaza; (iv) interested foreign contractors and suppliers
shall be allowed to bid; (v) bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be accepted
whether mailed or hand carried; (vi) all bids shall be opened at the same time in public; (vii)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; (viii) no bidder shall be requested or
permitted to modify his, her, or its bid after the bid closing date shall have elapsed; (ix) price
negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder shall be limited to cases provided for under the
guidelines; and (x) post-qualification criteria shall, in the absence of a pre-qualification process,
be explicitly stated in the bidding documents.
Goods
Goods will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) for all contracts
exceeding US$200,000, using World Bank Group standard bidding documents. Goods estimated
to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, and not to exceed US$2 million equivalent
in the aggregate, may be pfocured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping (NS)
procedures, in accordance with provisions 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 69
Country: West Bank and Gaza                       Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Employment of Consultants
Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and
Section IV of the Guidelines and the following provisions of Section II of this schedule.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
All contracts for goods exceeding US$500,000 and contracts for works exceeding US$1 million
would be subject to prior review by IDA. The threshold for prior review for consulting services
would be US$100,000 for contracts with consulting firms, and US$50,000 for contracts with
individuals. The contract review arrangements are summarized in Table B.
Disbursement
Allocation of Credit Proceeds (Table C)
The proposed credit would be disbursed against the project components, as shown in Table C.
The proposed credit would be disbursed over a period of about five years, and the project would
be completed by June 30, 2004.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs)
Disbursements out of the special account for contracts below the prior review threshold would be
made on the basis of SOEs. Documentation to support expenditures financed under SOEs would
be maintained by JDECo and SELCo and made available for review by IDA supervision
missions.
Special accounts (SAs)
Four special accounts shall be opened-one for each project beneficiary. To facilitate
disbursements, SAs would be established by the borrower in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The SAs would be maintained by JDECo, SELCo, HEPCo, and
the PEA as separate identifiable accounts to be used exclusively for project expenditures. IDA
would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$1.0 million (JDECo) and of
US$500,000 each to FEPCo, PEA, and SELCo. Initially, and until total disbursements to JDECo
reach US$6 million, the allocation would be limited to US$500,000. Replenishment applications
would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when about 20 percent of the initial deposit has been
utilized, whichever comes first. The replenishment applications would be supported by the
necessary documentation; i.e., a bank statement of the SA and a bank statement reconciling the
SA against IDA records. The SAs and SOEs would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and a report submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 70
Country: West Bank and Gaza                           Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB        Other      N.I.F
1. Works
Rehabilitation, southern network area                                    6.5          6.5
Rehabilitation, Ramallah area                      1.3                   1.0 C        2.3
(1.3)                              (1.3)
Rehab and expansion, Bethlehem                                           2            2.9
network area
Rehabilitation, other central areas                                      6.6 d        6.6
2. Goods
Rehabilitation, southern network area                                    19.1 C       19.1
Rehabilitation, Ramallah area           2.9                   1.0        3  c         73
(2.9)                (1.0)d                   (3-9)
Rehab and expansion, Bethlehem                                           6.6          6.6
network area
Rehabilitation, other central areas                                     21.9 d        21.9
SCADA                                                                    3.0c         3.0
3. Services
Project management (rehab.)                                              1.6c          1.6
Technical assistance                                          7.3        0.4           7.7
(7.3)b                   (7.3)
Initial startup costs                                         2.5                      2.5
(2.5)                   (2.5)
4. Organizational Strengthening                                          3.0'         3.0
Total                                2.9        1.3        10.8       76.0         91.0
(2.9)     (1.3)      (10.8)                   (15.0)
Note:  N.I.F. = Not IDA-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the TFGWB credit.
a      National Shopping
b      Quality-and-Cost-based Selection (QCBS) and Individual Consultants
c      Italian parallel financing
d      EIB parallel financing
e      JDECo/HEPCo/SELCo financing



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 71
Country: West Bank and Gaza                         Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value      Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category            (threshold)          Method                Prior Review
US$ thousands                                US$ millions
1. Works
All               NCB                   >1,000,000
2. Goods
> 200,000             ICB                   >500,000
< 200,000             NS                       No
3. Services
Consultancy by firm          > 100,000            QCBS                      Yes
< 100,000            QCBS                      No
Consultancy by individual    > 50,000      Individual consultants           Yes
< 50,000     Individual consultants            No



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 72
Country: West Bank and Gaza                         Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                    Amount             Financing
(US$ million)      (percentage)
Works                                                                 100% of foreign
and 85% of local
expenditures
Rehabilitation of Ramallah network area                  1.0
Goods                                                                 100% of foreign
and 85% of local
expenditures
Rehabilitation of Ramallah network area                 3.4
Initial startup and operating expenditures                                85% for
SELCo                                                   1.0            expenditures
HEPCo                                                    1.5          incurred before
June 30, 2000 and
65% thereafter
Technical assistance
Institutional strengthening of JDECo/HEPCo/SELCo        4.3                100%
TA to PEA for implementation of the LSDP                2.0                100%
Unallocated                                              1.8
Total        15.0



01a
c
Annex 7
SELCo Management Contract - Indicative Set of Performance Criteria
The management contractor will be eligible for incentive payments, at the end of each of the four contract implementation phases
providing corresponding performance criteria, an indicative set of which are mentioned in this Annex.
CD
N
MC Performance Assessment Time Frame
(Performance Incentive Payment Base)
Phase I     Phase 11              Phase III            Phase IV
Performance    Performance        Performance           Performance
Criteria    Criteria               Criteria             Criteria
0-
co3
rC
Time~~~~~~~~~~~
CD
a
a
a
CD
3
_                                                                                             8tD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
C(D



0-n
1.  Performance Criteria for Phase I (month I to 4)
As the operations of SELCo will have not yet been established at the project start up date, the assets and liabilities will have not yet been                                             X i
transferred to SELCo, and very few  reliable customers and financial data will be available at that time, performance criteria established
for the end of Phase I are essentially based on the achievement of critical logistical operational milestones. They are:                                                                     CD
0:3
PERFORMANCE CRITERIA FOR CONTRACT IMPLEMENTATION PHASE I
(First four months into the project)
1   World Bank and EIB  First Adace           Con rmation of         10°/      Within 30    Not Applicable   Within 45    NotApplicable  Witin 60days
loans effective      transferred into the   Electronic Funds                 days                         days
appropriate ESIMP   Transfer
special Account
2   Italian Loan funds    First Advance       Confirmation of        10%       Within 45   Not Applicable   Within 60   Not Applicable  Within 75 days
effectiveness date   transferred into the   Electronic Funds                 days                         days
Italy ESIMP special  Transfer or                                                                                                                              r
Account             Effectiveness date in                                                    . 
Italy                                                                                                                                    U
3   Start up of ESIMP     Mobilization of US$1 Line of Credit        10%      10 days after  15 days after  20 days after  25 days after    30 days after                               w
project Phase I      million Start up     established                     World Bank   World Bank   World Bank   World Bank  World Bank Loan                                        A
Bridge Financing                                   Loan approval Loan approval Loan approval Loan approval      approval                                      R
4   Organizational        SELCo ESIMP         SELCo Organization    5%         Within I      Within 1.5     Within 2      Within 2.5    Within 3 months
restructuring of      Implementation Team Chart and Job                   months after  months after   months after  months after  after ESIMP Start
SELCo                 Organized and       Descriptions                    ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up ESIMP Start ESIMP Startup           up UP
Trained             Published                           up                           up
5   Mobilization of Italian Italian Technical  Publication of TA     5%        Published     Published      Published     Published    Published within
Networks              Assistance mobilized Inception report                 within 3     within 3.5     within 4      within 4.5    5 months after                                  a)
Rehabilitation        and operational in                                  months after  months after  months after  months after   ESIMP Start up                                   0
Technical Assistance   SWB                                                ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up                                        _a
_a.W
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   up   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   up   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   -o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cl
0'
~-10



6   Efficient & Disciplined SEL,Co By Laws,    By Laws approved,    10%     Within 2     Within 2.5    Within 3     Within 3.5   Within 4 months 
functioning of the  Drafted, reviewed and Training completed          months after  months aflter  months after  months after  after ESIMP Start                          0w
SELCo Board of       approved and                                     ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up        up                                       20
Directors            extensive training of                                up                          up
Board Members                                                                                                                                          O:
7   Quick set up of the    femporary or     Senior SELCo          10%       Within 2     Within 2.5    Within 3     Within 3.5   Within 4 months
SELCo Head Office   permanent Head      personnel working             months after  months after  months after  months after  after ESIMP Start                            X
Office rented,     from Head Office,             ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up        up
rehabilitated,     Computer &                        up                          up
furnished and      Telecom lines
__________________     operational  operational
8   Quick staffing of key  SELCo General    Position Staffed on a    5%    Completed    Cornpleted    Completed    Completed    Not applicable
Senior SELCo         Manager - Financial  full time basis by a          within 3     within 3.5    within 4     within 4.5
Management positions Manager - Human    SELCo employee or               months        months        months       months
Resource Manager -  on a temporary full
Commercial Manager time basis by MC
and Chief Electrical  employee
Engineer hired and
operational
v_                          _                  _
9   Reliable computerized Audited list of SELCo Client Data Base on  10%    On new        On new        On new       On new        On new
Data Base of SELCo   customers.         new Computer,                  computer      computer      computer     computer       computer
customers (including  Assessment of clients Reliability tests and       within 2     within 2.5    within 3     within 3.5     within 4
Halbul)              current situation,    field spot-check           months after  months after  months after  months after   months after                                m
Updated Clients Data conducted                   ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up ESIMP Start up
Base transferred to                                  up                          up
new computer                                                                                                                                          tn
10  Clients Meter reading  100% of meter     Publishing of First   5%      Completed    Cormpleted    Completed    Completed       Completed                                    0
routines tested and    readings completed   summary meter            within 15 days within 20 days within 25 days within 30 days within 35 days
First 100% meter     with 95% of accuracy reading Reference            after Data  after Data Base  after Data  after Data Base after Data Base
reading completed                       Statistics (Base for          Base is ready    is ready    Base is ready    is ready   is ready
future comparisons)                                                                                                                X
11  Reliable billing of    Design of SELCo    First detailed billing    15%  First Billing   First Billing   First Billing   First Billing   First Billing
SELCo customers    Invoice completed;  report produced               report within 3  report within  report within  report within   report later                            .
First billing batch    (Reference base for       months after   3.5 months  4 months after  4.5 months    than 4.5
successfully produced future comparisons)        ESIMP start  after ESIMP   ESIMP start  after ESIMP   months after
& dispatched. Less                                   up          start up        up         start up    ESIMP start up                                a
than 5% of Bills
_rejected or returned
JU
CD'
a
0i 
in m



0 -u
12  Review and discussion Detailed complete    First SELCo           5%        Report        Report        Report         Report        Report
of "End of Phase I"   billing cycle analysis complete billing             produced      produced      produced      produced      produced
Progress Report with  report (Meter reading, cycle assessment and         within 4     within 4.5     within 5      within 5.5     within 6                                      , 2
the ESIMP Steering   consumption data    progress report                months after  months after   months after  months after   months after                                     3
Committee. "Base     entry, billing                                     ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up  ESIMP Start                                      CD
Reference" for future  statistics, Collection                             up Date         Date         up Date        Date         up Date                                       ,
performance          performance,
improvement          assessment of
evaluation           technical and
commercial loss,
commercial net-profit
for the first completc
billing cycle.                                                   _                          _
TOTAL FOR PHASE I                              100%                                     COMPOS TE PERFORMA[NCE SCORE FOR PHASE _
PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION FOR PHASE                                     -
Maximum Possible Compensation for Phase l         US$150,000
2. Performance Criteria for Phase II (month 5 to 12)
The focus of Phase II, in implementing the Contract, is to improve as quickly as possible the overall commercial and financial                                                         M
performance of SELCo. As such the Performance Criteria established for the end of this Phase are based on the relative improvement of                                                  m
the key financial and commercial performance indicators, using the complete customers billing cycle report produced at the end of Phase                                                R
I as the reference base for assessing performance improvements. Performance indicators agreed upon for the end of Phase II are the                                                     C
following:                                                                                                                                                                             5
(0
8
0
-u



o0X
'C,
PERFORMANCE CRITERIA FOR SELCo MC IMPLEMENTATION PHASE 11
(Months 5 to 12 into the project)                                                                        x
,.0
N
1   Increase Total Number Net increase in the    Client Data Base of   10%      15% Client      13% Client     10% Client      8% Client     Less than 2%
ofActive Customers  tota number of active SELCo Customers and            increase above  increase above  increase above  increase above  Client increase
clients after full  clients billing report           end of Phase I   end of Phase I  end of Phase I  end of Phase I   above end of
integration of Halhul                                                                                                Phase I
customers (Reference
-Progress report end of
Phase I)
2   Reduction of          Net decrease of     Consolidated Monthly     10%      3%Technical   2.5%Technical  2%Technical  1.5%Technical   0%oTechnical
Consolidated technical consolidated technical Energy Purchases and         loss reduction   loss reduction   loss reduction  loss reduction   loss reduction
loss in the SELCo     loss by comparison to Monthly Client Billing
distribution Network  the Reference Base    Summary
calculated at the end of
Phase I
3   Reduction of          Net decrease of     Summary Monthly Client  15%    5% Commercial 4.5% Commercial         4%            3.5%       3% Commercial
Commercial losses    consolidated         Billing Report and               loss reduction   loss reduction    Commercial  Commercial loss  loss reduction
commercial loss by    Summary Monthly                                              loss reduction    reduction
comparison to the   Clients Account
Reference Base      Receivable Report                                                                                                                   M
calculated at the end of                                                                                                                                m
Phase lI_                                                                      _
4   [ncrease in the average Tariff optimization and Monthly Client Billing  10%    3% Net Retum  2.5% Net Retum  2%Net Return 1.5% Net Retum  0% Net Return                       0
net return per kWh    adjustments between  and Monthly Clients               per kWh    per kWh Increase    per kWh        per kWh         per kWh                            C
sold                 residential, commercial Account Receivable              Increase                       Increase       Increase        Increase                           o
and industrial      Reports
customers                                                           _
5   Reduction of the      Consolidate Power and Monthly Billing from the   15%    3% Net         2.5% Net        2% Net        1.5% Net         0% Net                            3
Consolidated Cost of  Energy Purchases for  Israeli Company                Reduction in    Reduction in    Reduction in    Reduction in    Reduction in                      aD
Bulk Energy           all of SELCo and                                     Price per kWh   Price per kWh   Price per kWh  Price per kWh   Price per kWh                       _
Purchased from IEC   negotiate a better Price                                                            __
@a
CD
(D
4



2,-.
~0
6   Efficient SELCo       Laboratory set up -   Client Data Base - New  5%      3000 Meters    2500 Meters    2000 Meters    1500 Meters    1000 Meters
Meters Calibration    Calibration Procedures sery of meter codes           recalibrated    recalibrated   recalibrated    recalibrated   recalibrated ~
Laboratory Organized and Standards                                                                                                                                           CD X
Established - Program                                                                                                                                     C
for systematic meter
exchange and
calibration established                                                                                                                                C) _
7   Efficient Materials    Procedures established Purchase Orders,     5%    40% of SELCo  30% of SELCo  20% of SELCo  10% of SELCo   0% of SELCo                               aN
Procurement,         and tested for the   Suppliers Invoices,             Rehab Materials Rehab Materials    Rehab     Rehab Materials Rehab Materials
Receiving, Custom    whole materials      Material Receiving Slips,       Budget received Budget received    Materials    Budget received Budget received
Clearance,           procurement cycle and Warehouses Delivery                                          Budget received
Warehousing and Cost for efficient control of Records, Project
Accounting           materials dispatch and Management Records an
use by field        Project Accounting
rehabilitation teams   Records
8   Organization and      Rehabilitation                               5%      Rehab Team at  Rehab Team at  Rehab Team at Rehab Team at  Rehab Team at
Training of Efficient  standards established,                             Work in each o  Work in four of  Work in three  Work in Two of Work in one of
Network              Teams established,                                      the five        the five      of the five     the five       the five
Rehabilitation Rigging Training performed,                                Municipalities   Municipalities   Municipalities  Municipalities   Municipalities
Team                 Security procedures
established, Mobile
equipment, cranes,
trucks and tools
operational.
9   SELCo Head Quarter Network Installed,    Reporting capacity,       10%    Very efficient   Efficient and   Personnel      Equipment   Network not yet
Micro Computer       Telecom links        Volume of E Mail                    use of    Innovative use of  Training is    ordered but     installed                          m
Network is Operational established, Personnel exchanges                   technology by    technology      under way   Network not yet                                      'a
and Interfaced with   trained in using basic                               key personnel                                   installed
both JDECo, PEA and software                                                                                                                                                 c
HEPCo                                                                                                                   _      _
10  P~rinting of SELCo    Remote data entry of  Computerized meter      5%        Remote         Remote          Remote         Remote         Remote                             o
Monthly Customer    meter readings and    reading listings -              Processing at all Processing at four Processing at   Processing at   Processing at
Invoices at Remote    printing of monthly   Optimization of meter         five Municipal Municipal Client three Municipal two Municipal    none of the
Municipal Clients    customers invoices   reading and delivery of          Client Service  Service Centers  Client Service  Client Service  Municipal Client
_ Service Sites                           invoices                            Centers                        Centers        Centers     Service Centers
3
CD
as
a4
M



0t
11        Adjustment       Final valuation of   First Audited SELCo        5%      Dec 31,1999    Dec 31,19        Dc 31,1999    Dec 31,1999   Not Acceptable                           -E
SELCo Shareholders  SELCO Assets and    Financial Statement                    Financial       Financial       Financial       Financial                                            D
Respective Share      Liabilities before                                       Statement       Statement       Statement       Statement                                            , 0
Allocation            rehabilitation - First                                Produced before Produced before    Produced    Produced before 
audited Financial                                     end of Jan 2001  end of Feb 2002  before end of    end of April                                        a 3
Statement at the end of                                                                March 2002         2003                                               G) a
December 2000                                             __ _                                                       1
12   Review and discussion  Detailed Progress   Detailed Progress Report   5%        Report      Report produced     Report    Report produced Report produced
of "End of Phase 11"   Report - Summary of                                  produced within   within 13.5      produced       within 14.5      within 15
Progress Report with  Cumulative Project                                     13 months after   months after    withinl4      months after    months after
the ESIMP Steering    Costs - Identification                                ESIMP Start up  ESIMP Start up   months after  ESIMP Start up  ESIMP Start up
Committee.            of critical project                                        Date            Date       ESIMP Start up       Date            Date
implementation                                                                            Date
,difficulties.       I       _I                                                       I              I_              I
TOTAL FOR PHASE ii 100%                                           COMPOSITE PERFORMANCE SCORE FOR HASE I
______________ _ _     PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION FOR PHASE 14 *
I:         :        MaximumPossibleCompensationforPhaselq    USS150,000
3.  Performance Criteria Phase III (month 13 to 24)
The focus of phase III, in implementing the Contract, is to develop SELCo Management expertise and manager's accountability and to
fuirther improve the commercial and financial performance of SELCo. As such, some of the Performance Criteria established for the end                                                      m
of this Phase III are still based on the relative improvement of the key financial and commercial performance indicators, with the addition
of new performance indicators specifically related to the performance of the SELCo management team. Performance indicators agreed                                                          c
upon for the end of Phase III are the following:
CD
a
3
CD
D
I
CD
0-
-U



0 -u
PERFORMANCE CRITERIA FOR MC IMPLEMENTATION PHASE III
(Months 13 to 24 into the project)
n. 0
Cs
N
IFurther increase total  Increase total number of Clent Data Base of SELCo  20%    25%Client   20% Client    15% Client   I10%/ Client   Lesta 10°/%
number of active      active clients in the  Customers and Monthly             increase above| increase above increase above increase above  Client increase
customers and integrate SELCo Clients Data    Clients Billing Reports          end of Phase I| end of Phase II end of Phase It end of Phase II  above end of
non-yet participating    Base. New (already                                                                                                Phase II
SWB Municipalities    electrified) SWB
Municipalities admitted
as a full members of
SELCo
2  Further Reduction of   Net decrease of       Consolidated Monthly Energy   10%    6/oTechnical 5.5%Technical 5%Technical  4.5%/.Technical    Less than
Consolidated technical  consolidated technical  Purchases and Monthly Client    loss reduction  loss reduction  loss reduction  loss reduction   4%oTechnical
loss in the SELCo      loss by comparison to   Billing Summary                  since end of   since end of   since end of    since end of   loss reduction
distribution Network   the Reference Base                                         Phase I       Phase I       Phase I       Phase I      since end of
calculated at the end of                                                                                            Phase I
Phase I                                                  ___ss_-_     _an__ __
3  Further Reduction of   Control meter installed  Summary Monthly Client   10%        10%           9.5%          9%            8.5%       less than 8%
Commercial losses     at strategic main feeders Billing Report and Summary      Commercial   Commercial   Commercial  Commercial loss  Commercial
(Clients Account      nodes - Net decrease of Monthly Clients Account           loss reduction  loss reduction  loss reduction  reduction since  loss reduction             M
Receivables)          consolidated commercial Receivable Report                 since end of   since end of   since end of   end of Phase I   since end of
loss since end of Phase I                                  Phase I       Phase I       Phase I                      Phase I
4  Improvement in meter  Systematic recalibration Monthly Client Billing - Bar    5%    50% of meters 45% of meters 40% of meters  o ters  Less than 30%n
reading accuracy      of meters - Bar code    coded meter reading listings,     recalibrated  recalibrated and  recalibrated  recalibrated and    of meters                 aL
meter identification -   Meter reading anomalies         and replaced    replaced    and replaced    replaced     recalibrated                       _
Automatic detection of  report                                                                                    and replaced                       c
abnormal consumption
variations                                                                                                                                           CD
ffL.   5  1                            -          -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   -........  " ....
5  Priority on High Return Control meterinstalled  Prioritized Rehabilitation  10%    100% of   90% of Priority   80% of    70% of Priority  Less than 60%                      a
Rehabilitation Work    at strategic main feeders Program - Monthly Technical   Priority (A) & (A) & (B) work Priority (A) &  (A) & (B) work  of Priority (A)
nodes - Percentage of   loss Report                        (B) work     completed     (B) work      completed      & (B) work
priority (A) and (B)                                      completed                   completed                    completed                         3
rehabilitation work                                                                                                                                  a
_completed                                                            .                                                        ___
-D
coc



0-a
6  Electronic Geographical Geographical Mapping  Geographical Mapping Data    5%     Electronic    Electronic   Electronic     Electronic     Electronic    _     
Mapping of the SELCo  of SELCo Concession   Base. Plotted Maps of                 Mapping    Mapping 90%  Mapping 80%/   Mapping 70%   Mapping 60%                            >
Power Distribution    Territory - Detailed  municipal Networks. Interface          100%       Completed    Completed       Completed      Completed                         g c
Network (GIS)         Mapping of Municipal  with Client Data Base.               Completed                                                                                  a f as
Networks                                                                                                                                             w
7  Efficient Materials    Efficient materials   Purchase Orders, Suppliers  5%    80% of SELCo 65% of SELCo 60% of SELCo  55% of SELCo  Less than 50%                           - o
Procurement, Receiving, procurement planning,  Invoices, Material Receiving        Rehab        Rehab         Rehab      Rehab Materials   of SELCo                         X
Custom Clearance,     control of materials  Slips, Warehouses Delivery           Materials     Materials     Materials   Budget received   Rehab
Warehousing and Cost  dispatching and use by  Records, Project Management         Budget        Budget        Budget                      Materials                           R
Accounting            field rehabilitation teams and Accounting Records           received     received      received                      Budget                           a
received
8  On the Job Training of  Systematic "on the Job" Accounting Department -  15%   80% of SELCo 70% of SELCo 60% of SELCo  50% of SELCo  Less than 40%
SELCo Employees       training of SELCo     Secretarial Work - E Mail -          Personnel     Personnel     Personnel     Personnel      of SELCo
within MC             employees             Client Services and Relation -        Trained       Trained       Trained       Trained       Personnel
Administrative Services                     Project Management -                                                                           Trained
Network Maintenance -
Materials Procurement -
Monthly Performance Report
Writing
9  SELCO Data Processing Qualified Data         Degree of direct participation   10%    Efficient and  Superficial but Participation  SELCo Team as  No
Department Created and Processing Personnel   of the SELCo Data Processing       productive    productive    of SELCo    observers only  participation
Staffed               Hired and Integrated    Team for the development of       SELCo Team   SELCo Team  Team as on the                   of SELCo
within management    new computerized                    Participation   Participation   Job Training                Team
systems design and   management systems
development teams
10  New computer          Computer installed at   Accuracy of SELCo General    5%     General       General       General       General        General
operational           SELCo Head Quarter   Accounting                           Accounting   Accounting    Accounting    Accounting    Accounting
and SELCo General                                        Transferred in Transferred in Transferred in  Transferred in  Transferred in
Accounting performed                                      July 2000    August 2000    September    October 2000    November
by SELCo Accounting                                                                     2000                          2000
Personnel 
E   ;   :  .-~~~~~~~~~~~~#                  (     ., ,.. n
11  Review and discussion of Detailed Progress Report Detailed Progress Report  5%    Report        Report        Report    Report produced    Report            r
"End of Phase 111"    - Summary of                                               produced      produced      produced      within 26.5    produced           j3
Progress Report with the Cumulative Project                                      within 25    within 25.5    within 26     months after    within 27
ESIMP Steering        Costs - Identification of                                 months after  months after   months after  ESIMP Start up  months after
Committee.            critical project                                          ESIMP Start ESIMP Start up ESIMP Start        Date       ESIMP Start                         E
implementation                                             up Date        Date         up Date                      up Date                           X
idifficulties.      IID
TOTAL FOR PHASE III  100%                               COMPOSITE PERFORMANCE SCORE FOR PHASE 111                           CD
PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION FOR PHASE 11f                                      D a
Maximum Possible Compensation for Phase 11i    US$150,000
m_Y
Ci



0 -u
4.  Performance Criteria for Phase IV (month 25 to 36)                                                                                                                              >
PERFORMANCE CRITERIA FOR CONTRACT IMPLEMENTATION PHASE [V                                                                     w i.
(Months 25 to 36 into the project)                                                                     X
IIncreaiseTotal Number{A]Ialready electrified  Client Data Base of   20%         All       Not applicable  80% ofWB 70  of small  Less ta  0
of Active Customers   SWB Municipalities are SELCo Customers and          Municipalities                   Small      municipalities   of small
now full shareholders o clients billing report        excluding                   Municipalities               Municipalities
SELCo                                                  Hebron
2  Reduction of Account Efficient performance  Summary Monthly Client  20%      Account       Account        Account        Account       Account
Receivables          of the SELCo account  Billing Report and             Receivable at  Receivable at   Receivable at  Receivable at  Receivable at
receivable department  Summary Monthly               2.0 months of  2.5 months of  3.0 months of  3.5 months of  more than 3.5
Clients Account                    billing        billing       billing        billing      months of
Receivable Report             I       _billing
3  Increase in the average Increase in tariff to  Monthly Client Billing  10%    20% net return  15% net return  10% net return  5% net return   Less than 5%
net return per kWh    ensure long term    and Monthly Financial           on investment  on investment  on investment  on investment  net return on
sold                 financial viability of   Statements                                                                              investment
SELCo with fltll debt
service
4  Network              All SELCo network    Network Rehabilitation   20%    Completed by  Completed by   Completed by  Completed by  Completed by                              m
Rehabilitation Work  rehabilitation work    Program                        April 2002     June 2002     August 2002   October 2002  December 2002                           A
for Original SELCo   (Priority (A), (B) &                                                                                                                                   c
Shareholders is      (C)) is completed
Completed            _
5  ESIMP Budget for the Request for ESIMP    Justification for ESIMP  5%    ESIMP Phase I] ESIMP Phase 11 ESIMP Phase 11 ESIMP Phase 11 ESIMP Phase 11
Rehabilitation of the   Phase 11 Funds has been Phase 11                     Request       Request        Request       Request        Request
Other Small          issued and approved                                  Approved by   Approved by   Approved by   Approved by   Approved by
Munieipalities not                                                          July 2002    August 2002  September 2002 October 2002  November 2002                            R
Original Shareholders P
of SELCo has beenA
100% used. And 
supplementary request
for Funds to complete Q
the Rehabifitation has 3
CD
_bten issuedR
co
3C



on j
6  New Client Billing and New system installed   Proper functioning of the   10%    Operational at  Operational at  Operational at  Operational at  Operational at 
Collection System    and operational -    system                           SELCo by       SELCo by       SELCo by      SELCo by       SELCo by
SELCo Personnel                                       September    October 2001  November 2001 December 2001  January 2002
trained on how to                                       2001                                                                                           x 
efficiently use it                                  _                                                                                                    3
7  New Client Interface  New system installed   Proper functioning of the   10%    Operational at  onal at nal at  Operational at  Operational at  Operational at               ° 
Telecommunication    and operational -    system                            SELCo by      SELCo by       SELCo by      SELCo by       SELCo by                              53
System and Work      SELCo Personnel                                      October 2002  November 2002 December 2002  January 2003   February 2003
Order Dispatching    trained on how to
System               efficiently use it
8  Review and discussion Detailed Progress   Detailed Progress Report -  5%     Report    Report produced    Report         Report    Report produce
of "End of Phase IV"  Report - Summary of  Overall ESIMP                    produced     within 37.5     produced       produced      within 39
Progress Report with  Cumulative Project   Implemented Within               within 37    months after    within38      within 38.5    months after
the ESIMP Steering   Costs - Identification of Original Budgetary          months after  ESIMP Start up   months after   months after  ESIMP Start up
Committee.           critical project     Constraints for the SELC       ESIMP Start up     Date       ESIMP Start up ESIMP Start up    Date
implementation      Component                           Date                          Date          Date
difficulties.       II_                            I.I                          I              I _
TOTAL FOR PHASE         100%                                COMPOSITE PERFORMANCE SCORE FOR PHASE IV
PERFORMAN4CE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION FOR PHASE IVI                        ** 
Maximum Possible Compensation for Phase piV     US$150,000       l
M
0)
CD(
CD
a
m0,
Q.
CD
C-o
00
a



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 84
Country: West Bank and Gaza                             Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 8
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                            Planned                 ActualI
(at fmal Project Concept
Document stage)
330              727 as of 6/30/99
B. Project Schedule                                   Planned                  Actual
(at final Project Concept
Document stage)
Elapsed time taken to prepare the project (months)       11                     38
First IDA mission (preparation)                      11/20/1995              11/20/1995
Appraisal mission departure                           05/1996                10 /06/1997
Negotiations                                           07/1996               04/30/1999
Planned date of effectiveness                         01/1997                11/01/1999
Prepared by:      Palestinian Energy Authority /JDECo, European Investment Bank, Italian co-
operation, and IDA
Preparation assistance:   Technical Assistance Trust Fund (TATF)
Municipal Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP) team
Staff who worked on the project: PEA Team:
Dr. Omar Kittaneh, Director General, PEA
Eng Zafer Mihem, ,Director of Planning & Research, PEA
Eng. Hisham Omari, Networks Division, JDECo
Eng. S. M. Abu Rabi, Manager Electric Department, Hebron
IDA Team:
Rama Skelton, Task Team Leader (MNSID)
H. Gruss, Chief Counsel (LEGMN)
Etienne Linard, Regional Procurement Advisor (MNAVP)
Hadi Abushakra, Counsel (LEGMN)
Ayman Abu-Haija, Financial Management Specialist (MNSID)
Samuel Fankhauser, Economist (MNSID)
Mangesh Hoskote Sr. Power Sector Specialist (EMTEG)
Rene Mendonca, Sr. Power Engineer (MNSID)
Judith Press, Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist (MNSPF)
Brigitte Prophete, Team Assistant (MNSID)
Keith Rennie, Social Scientist (MNSED)
Virhen Shirohi, Environmental Specialist (EMTEN)
Prajapati Trivedi Sr. Private Sector Specialist (PSDPS / NCTI)
M. Heitner, Peer Reviewer (SASEG)
Jamal Saghir, Peer Reviewer (MNSID)
Yves Albouy, Peer Reviewer (EMTEG)
EIB Team:
Mr. Alberto Barragan
Mr. Kurt Simonsen
Mr. Patrick Walsh
Italian Cooperation Team:
Giancarlo, Palma Eng. Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Dr. Enric Mollica, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Consultants/Advisors to the PEA: Mr. Raja Shedadeh (Lawyer), Alain Godeau (Institutional
Development Specialist); Panos Vlahakis (Power Engineer); Sati Achath (Financial Analyst)- Palestine
Social Scientists Network (social survey).
Actual project preparation activities undertaken covered sector work for the entire WBG and facilitated
mobilization of approx. US$60 million in donor funding for regions outside of the ESIMP. Working with the PEA
and cofinanciers, scope of project at original PCD stage retargeted to central and southern regions of the WBG, with
key elements of institutional reforms put in place prior to Board presentation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 85
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 9
Socioeconomic Issues
Introduction
Project preparation included two socioeconomic inputs (in project files): the technical report and the rapid
survey.
(a)   A substantial technical report prepared in 1996 by an international consulting firm synthesized
available scattered socioeconomic informnation on the energy sector, including electricity. It
surveyed the institutional framework, the economic and planning framework, demographic
trends, and the residential sector, based mainly on data collected between 1992 and 1994. Its
primary purpose was to complement the institutional and regulatory study with socioeconomic
information that would serve as a basis for demand projections.
(b)   A diagnostic socioeconomic survey, undertaken by a team of three Palestinian sociologists in
respect to the West Bank and Arab Jerusalem, was completed in June 1999. The team updated
and analyzed key socioeconomic indicators on the basis of the October 1997 census and other
documents, conducted interviews with some key stakeholders, and undertook a rapid focused
field investigation of 110 households focusing on consumer-related issues in Bethlehem,
Hebron, Jericho, Ramallah, and six localities in the southern West Bank. The survey clarified
certain stakeholder issues, benefits, risks, and matters related to the ultimate beneficiaries
(consumers). Its primary purpose was to serve as a basis for the explicit incorporation of
socioeconomic issues into project design and implementation.
These two inputs provided a sufficient basis to identify the project's major socioeconomic aspects. Despite
the broad scope of the first study (energy in general, inclusion of Gaza) and the tight time constraints of the
second, the key areas for ongoing process of socioeconomic inputs into the project have been defined and
will be carried out during implementation. This future work will include additional investigations, analysis,
and incorporation of social concerns into the institutional mandates and procedural documentation of the
project, as well as monitoring and establishment of indicators. This annex summarizes the rationale,
potential benefits, and outcomes of incorporating socioeconomic monitoring and analysis into the project
on an ongoing basis.
Household demand
In 1996 (the latest year with detailed information available), households accounted for 80 percent of
electricity consumption in WBG; most of this electricity was imported.
Table 1: Energy Consumption, Usage and Importation by West Bank Region (1996)
l | |    ~27 587    3%      10 224     1%    195 690   23%         69%
l  |     ~~33 274   4%      43 119     5%     211 883   25%       110%
l       ~~~47 914   6%      8 601      1%    271 573    32%        43%
108 775    13%    61 944      7%     679 146   80%        73%
Source: Derived from PCBS, Energy Consumption in the Palestinian Territories, Annual Report, 1996, tables
2,6, 8 and 18.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 86
Country: West Bank and Gaza                                Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
The vast majority (97 percent) of housing units are houses and apartments (other possible residential
classifications are villa, tent, marginal, and other). Family ownership is high: families own 93 percent of
the villas they occupy, 86 percent of houses, and 64 percent of apartments. The level of electricity grid
connections is also high-99 percent of villas, 93 percent of houses, and 98 percent of apartments. This
figure drops sharply for the poorest strata of the population. Of the single rented or leased rooms counted as
housing units, 25 percent had no supply connections.
Table 2: Access to Electricity by Type of Residential Unit (late 1997)
Calculated from: PNA, PCBS, Census Final Results-Summary, November 30, 1998, Table 26.
There are poor localities where there is little or no access to supply; these include at least five locations in
the Jerusalem governorate, a large number of small localities comprising more than a thousand housing
units in the Hebron area, two significant localities in Jericho, three in Bethlehem, and two in the Ramallah-
Beira area. There are also sharp differences in the localities' access to electricity. The socioeconomic
analysis strongly supports the project's strategic approach of concentrating first on improving efficiency,
quality of supply, management, and cost recovery, in order to create a sound basis for future extension to
unserved areas.
able 3: Central Area: Selected Socioeconomic Variables (late 1997)
|  | | |  |  |    10 11 ilililggo            98              987 9677 1
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                      4%           2%       48%lS 



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 87
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Table 4: Southern Area: Selected Socioeconomic Variables (late 1997)
21        28        14        22       25       22      1
63        86        47        65       73       74      36
94        99        96        98       98       98      9
Calculated from PCBS data (unpublished).
Households use electricity for lighting and to operate domestic electric appliances; while for cooking and
domestic heating, other sources of energy are still more common. Consumption per household is still very
low. In Israel, the per capita consumption of electricity is about 8,000 kWh (1994). In WBG, per capita
consumption is about 1,140 kWh, and 660 for household use. Yet the rise in domestic potential demand is
substantial. In 1994, automatic washing machines were owned by 34 percent of households in West Bank,
92 percent in Arab Jerusalem, and 17 percent in camps. The 1997 census showed a huge increase: 63
percent in the poorer southern governorates, 80 percent in Jerusalem, 75 percent in Ramallah-Beira, 73
percent in Bethlehem, and 65 percent in Jericho.
The predominant household demand is for quality of supply. In the household survey, the field researchers
were received with enthusiasm, with respondents expressing a desire to be heard on the issue of electricity,
which they felt had not been the subject of sufficient public discussion. The great majority of respondents
(83 percent) said that electricity services in their area need to be improved, with the highest percentage in
the Hebron area. However, half of them felt that the cost of obtaining a supply connection or permit is too
high, and a third found it difficult to obtain a connection. Satisfaction with the promptness of maintenance
and repairs was expressed by only 55 percent. More than a third of respondents thought that the quality of
electricity services was bad or very bad, and more than a quarter said they require more power. Altogether,
just under half felt that electricity was a problem, and just over half (52 percent) had no problem. The
majority of respondents (84 percent) believed that better electricity services would have a positive impact
on the situation of women.
Industry and commerce
The example of one company in Hebron illustrates the general principle that increasing demand for
quantity and quality comes also from industry, and that potential benefits to the economy couild be
considerable. This company, established in 1994, currently employs 65 people and plans to expand. Its
automated production system requires electric power for 80 percent of its energy needs. Yet municipal
power is expensive and unreliable. The manager is acutely aware that improvement of services would
greatly benefit both the neighborhood (reducing the need for a noisy backup generator) and the efficiency
and cost-effectiveness of his enterprise. This industry has a keen interest in the price of power not
increasing. In general, industry and commerce are a growing sector that would like to be not mere passive



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 88
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
consumers, but to interact with distribution utilities that will, in turn, make an effort to understand and
respond to their needs.
Ability and willingness to pay
The proportion of household budgets going to electricity supply appears to be modest. A small household
(one to three persons) pays just over 10 percent of its per capita expenditure on housing, which includes
electricity, gas, water, and rent or estimated rent value for owner-occupied dwellings (1997 census). This
falls to 7 percent for an average household of six to seven persons, and to 5 percent for households of ten or
more. More than half the respondents considered that the cost of electricity was high. Nobody considered
electricity to be inexpensive. However, this appears to be primarily a quality of supply issue, as a small
majority of respondents (52 percent) would be willing to tolerate a modest increase, and nearly three
quarters (74 percent) would be willing to help bear the extra cost if services were improved.
Willingness to pay has been, in the recent past, primarily a political issue. The proportion of people not
paying decreased dramatically after the establishment of the Palestinian Authority, when people realized
that now their money would be used to pay local salaries and to fulfill the agreements for importation. In
addition, the authorities have been using a variety of means to enforce payment, including police and
security forces and disconnections. Mechanisms have existed for the relief of the very poor or families of
prisoners (e.g., free supplies in Hebron for indigent families identified by the social protection services).
Non-payment is now more an institutional than a political problem and varies from one area to another.
Consumer issues
Domestic and industrial consumers tend to see electricity supply services as remote and unresponsive.
There is a risk that negative attitudes might increase with the amalgamation and privatization of services.
Consumers could tolerate some increase in prices, but these should be introduced very judiciously and in
return for visible and prior or immediately achieved improvements in service. The utilities would gain
through reduction of losses (technical and non-technical) and through a rise in revenues from increasing
consumption.
Stakeholder issues
The brief stakeholder investigations conducted in June 1999 covered a range of interests, including the
municipalities concerned. A detailed exposition of the findings is not necessary here, other than to note
that the project needs to make explicit provision to mitigate stakeholder risks. These risks arise from: (a)
the institutional context, where a historically important source of municipal revenues is to be restructured
into specialized distribution agencies; (b) the political context, where there is a legacy of past conflict with
suppliers; and (c) the project preparation process, where all key stakeholders need to feel they have been
consulted.
Given that municipalities have in the past used electricity revenues as a system of indirect taxation to cross-
subsidize other services, the indirect effects of changing sources and patterns of municipal revenues on
services to the community should be carefully monitored and mitigated. In particular, care should be taken
to ensure the continuity of health and education services in poorer communities.
The capacity to manage and reconcile divergent stakeholder interests will be a major challenge for the PEA
as the main policymaking body of the sector. Development of this capacity should be integrated into the
explicit objectives of the PEA and the PIU.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 89
Country: West Bank and Gaza                            Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Recommendations
Stakeholder risks should be mitigated through mechanisms to ensure explicit consideration of consumer
and stakeholder issues. This could be done in five main ways:
(a)   Build into PEA's mandate the explicit requirement to ensure consumer protection, including:
pricing policies that protect the interests of the poor and the extremely poor; the need to give
priority to certain key social services (e.g., schools and clinics); monitoring the safety and
environmental conditions of families living adjacent to local industries in respect to supply
installations;
(b)   Integrate into the management capacity building of the distribution utilities a consumer-
oriented (household and industrial/commercial) approach, including consumer education,
training of managers, and institutional provisions for customer services, and ensure that this
approach is reflected in the management agreements;
(c)  Include in the PIU the capacity and mandate to access national socioeconomic professional
expertise for training, baseline surveys, monitoring and evaluation; and for monitoring
potentially delicate aspects of stakeholder interaction;
(d)   Include in the project implementation plan provision to map the supply requirements of
industries;
(e)   Include in PEA and in the PIU the professional capacity to analyze, monitor, and manage
divergent stakeholder interests;
(f)   Include in the project implementation plan a provision to assess institutional and stakeholder
aspects of the project and to evaluate, at midterm review, the extent to which capacity to deal
with these aspects has been internalized in the beneficiary institutions.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 90
Country: West Bank and Gaza                           Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 10
Environmental Management Plan
Introduction
The development objective of the proposed project is to benefit electricity consumers, predominantly
households, through sustainable improvements in the quality of electricity supply. This objective will be
achieved through fundamental power sector institutional reforms (the policy components), implemented in
parallel with reinforcement of the power system (the physical components). In particular, the project will:
(a)   Initiate restructuring of the power sector in accordance with the Palestinian Authority's (PA's)
Letter of Power Sector Development Policy (Attachment). This will involve the
corporatization and commercialization of two new entities: the Hebron Electric Power
Company (HEPCo) and the Southern Electric Company (SELCo)-the latter taking over the
electric utility operations of five small municipalities in the area;
(b)   Strengthen the Palestinian Energy Authority's (PEA's) capacity to put in place power sector
reforms and sector environmental regulations, and to establish an overall institutional basis-
building on international best practices-for the sustainable operation of the power sector and
the safeguarding of consumer interests;
(c)   Reinforce the power system in the central and southern regions of the West Bank (areas A and B
only), as the first step in the least-cost power system expansion plan aimed at the efficient and
reliable provision of electricity.
The physical component of the project mainly concerns the upgrading of existing distribution of 33 kV and
lower-voltage facilities in the Hebron governorate and in the central region of the West Bank. Overall,
some 85 low-voltage distribution transformers, rated from 250 kVA to 630 kVA, are to be replaced. With
respect to the policy component of the project, one element will be to address environmental regulations
insofar as these affects the electricity sector in the WBG. A diagnostic assessment has been done by the
international consulting firm IVO International Ltd. Based on this preliminary work, PEA, in coordination
with the Ministry of Environmental Affairs (MEA), would develop the policy guidelines/regulations for the
power sector. This work, including training in use of these guidelines, would be done with the assistance of
international consultants (US$200,000 has been allocated for this purpose).
Environmental issues
Transformer insulating oils. The project implementation unit (PIU) has confirmed, via a series of random
tests as well as via the insulating oil manufacturers' specifications that PCBs are not now and have never
been used in the transformers that are being replaced. In addition, maintenance records going back more
than 25 years for all transformers indicate that the oil present in these transformers does not contain PCBs.
It has been verified that the suppliers' (Shell) insulating oil used does not contain any PCBs and that this is
the insulating oil that has been used by the maintenance workshop that has overhauled all the transformers
for at least the last 25 years. One of the major suppliers (covering over 50 percent of the transformers) has
also provided a certificate that it has never used PCBs in its transformers. Also, additional testing covering
transformers from the other supplier was carried out in a professional laboratory in Israel and has further
confirmed that PCBs are not present in the transformers that are being replaced. Nonetheless, and to
further ensure that no PCB's are present, the PIU will monitor the replacement of transformers with
appropriate testing and corrective action, where needed (US$5,000-has been set aside for further testing
prior to the ultimate disposal of units to be scrapped). The rehabilitation works contract documents will also
have specific language to address this issue. In the unlikely event that PCBs are found present, then these
will be disposed of in accordance with the IFC Environmental Health and Safety guidelines for PCBs as
issued in July, 1998.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 91
Country: West Bank and Gaza                          Electdc Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Other environmental issues. The rehabilitated power distribution lines are not associated with material
electromagnetic field impacts, since they are not extra-high voltage transmission lines (i.e., above 240
kilovolts) but involve sub-transmission distribution voltages at 33 kV or lower. Standard designs employed
for overhead lines have been configured to provide safety to people and animals, including birds. There are
no works associated with power stations and/or new substations and no green-field sites are involved.
Hence, there are no rights-of-way, resettlement, or land acquisition issues involved. The distribution
substations included in the project are within existing locations in urban areas and do not have any
incremental impact on vegetation and other aspects of environment. Noise from the distribution lines also
would not have any significant impact on nearby residents.
Needfor a policy and regulatory framework to address environmental issues within the energy sector in the
WBG. A diagnostic review of energy sector regulation was conducted by IVO International and completed
in August 1996 as part of the project preparation activities (see report in project file). A main conclusion of
the IVO review was that the most urgent action required is to develop environmental regulatory guidelines
for the WBG. Items to be addressed with respect to this regulatory framework include developing
administrative capacity for environmental issues, enforcement, creation of a waste management system,
enactment of regulations on air and water protection, and the need to create an environmental licensing
system. Specifically, these new regulations would need to address various energy sector projects to be
developed in the future: power plants, transmission lines, fuel storage, fuel pipelines, oil refineries. A key
item would be to develop appropriate procedures for environmental impact assessments (EIAs). The
ESIMP therefore has provided for the funding of expert consultancy services to develop environmental
policy guidelines and regulations, focussing on the power sector as a first instance. The required in-depth
studies to develop appropriate environmental policy guidelines and regulations would be undertaken by the
PEA in coordination with MEA and training would be provided in use of these guidelines and regulations.
Detailed terms of reference need to be agreed at project launch mission.
Mitigation Measures
The Environment Management Plan (EMP) identifies feasible and cost-effective measures that will reduce
potentially significant adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels.
I 1. Guidelines: As a first step, International Finance Corporation's (IFC) Environmental Health and Safety
Guidelines for Electric Power Transmission and Distribution, published July 1, 1998 - (see project
file), as well as in the Project Implementation Plan, will be followed and suitable implementation
arrangements made by the PIU. This will include:
(a) Collecting additional details on the existing distribution system (e.g., area served, km of
lines, number and types of substations, types of materials used, number of shops and types
of work performed at each);
(b) Following applicable public disclosure procedures including publication of the EMP to
facilitate awareness of local stakeholders; and
(c) Quantifying each major type of waste (used oil, etc.), and following acceptable 'waste
management methods described in this plan for recycling, storage, transport, handling,
treatment, and disposal.
B. The summary Table for Mitigation Measures: Table I summarizes the mitigation measures which will
be implemented by the PIU. These include recycling of wires, wooden poles, and other salvageable
materials. Used oil will be recycled, according to international best practice. General solid waste will
be disposed of in a well-designed municipal landfill. Noise and dust will be maintained at acceptable
levels and will comply with the World Bank Group's Environmental Guidelines.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 92
Country: West Bank and Gaza                       Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Monitoring
Environmental monitoring during project implementation will be conducted at least once a month to
provide information about key environmental aspects of the project, particularly the environmental impacts
associated with the works stage of implementation and the effectiveness of the mitigation measures (refer
to Table 2). The IFC Guidelines provide guidance on parameters to be monitored. Such information will
allow evaluation of the success of the mitigation measures as part of project supervision, and allow
corrective actions to be taken if, as, and when needed. The Resident Mission will report, at least once
every 6 months, the results of its supervision and project monitoring, including information on progress
made in implementing the mitigation measures identified in Table 1.
Capacity Development and Training
To support timely and effective implementation of environmental components of the project and the impact
mitigation measures, the EMP will draw on the existing capability of environmental units on site,
implementing agencies, and at the Palestinian Energy Authority level. An adequate budget has been
provided. Training of technicians and environmental staff will also be provided (refer to Table 3). Specific
institutional arrangements -- who is responsible for carrying out the mitigation and monitoring measures
(e.g., for operation, supervision, enforcement, monitoring of implementation, remedial action, financing,
reporting, and staff training) are being worked out by the PIU. The PIU will strengthen the environmental
management capability through (a) technical assistance programs and (b) procurement of equipment and
supplies. IFC's Guidelines will be used as a guide for designing such training programs. The PIU will
appoint an Environment and Safety Officer (ESO) who will responsible for addressing all environmental
issues and the budget assumes that the ESO will devote at least half of his or her time to environmental
issues.
Environmental Regulation and Training
Based on this preliminary IVO diagnostic (par.lC above), PEA, in coordination with the Ministry of
Environmental Affairs (MEA), would develop the policy guidelines/regulations for the power sector and,
where necessary, prepare an environmental policy statement and training in the implementation of the new
guidelines. This work would be done with the assistance of international consultants (US$200,000 has been
allocated for this purpose)-(refer to Table 4).
Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates
For mitigation, monitoring, and capacity development, the Project Implementation Plan will provide: (a) an
implementation schedule for measures (refer to Table 5) that will be carried out as a part of the project,
showing phasing and coordination of with overall project implementation plans; and (b) the cost estimates
(refer to Table 6) and sources of funds for implementing the EMP. A budget for US$235,000 has been set
aside for the implementation of EMP and has also been integrated into the total project cost tables.
Integration of EMP with the ESIMP Operation
Measures recommended by this document have been integrated into the project's overall planning, design,
budget, and implementation so that the plan will receive funding and supervision along with other project
components.



Table 1. Environmental Mitigation Plan
Pb5se         _sue                   _          ,.tin    - , s)              .      utt      a   .. :_C. ,,, (ouutg oti  0  x"
Decommissioning      Waste oil             Test & recycle after         6,000         Environment &         Used oil is normally     G)
treatment                                  Safety Officer (PIU)   recycled
Old transformers     Recycle metals, send         5,000          Environment &         Metals will be
the rest to landfill                       Safety Officer (PIU)   recycled
Used poles           Reuse/Dispose in             2,000          Environment &         Poles will be reused
landfill      -                            Safety Officer (PIU)
Scrap wire           Recycle/Landfill             2,000         Environment &          Scrap wire will be
Safety Officer (PIU)   reused
Construction         Dust                  Wetting of dusty             1,000         Environment &         Acceptable
areas/windbreakers,                        Safety Officer (PIU)   increments of ambient
where needed                                                     dust levels will be
maintained
Noise                Use mufflers                  1,000         Environment &         Acceptable noise
Safety Officer (PIU)   levels (World Bank
Guidelines) will be      m
CD
maintained
Operation            Electromagnetic field  Low voltage, impacts          0           Environment &         Acceptable EMF            n
minimal                                    Safety Officer (PIU)   levels will be
maintained
Noise                Impacts are expected           0            Environment &         Acceptable noise
to be insignificant                        Safety Officer (PIU)   levels (World Bank      C
Guidelines) will be      Z
maintained              _
Total                      17,000    .  X
CD
C,c
-~cO
-CD



-o
Table 2. Environmental Monitoring Plan
_                                                                                                 ay~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e-
0
Decommissioning      Waste oil disposal    At disposal site    Every lot            Enioment &                   1,200      
_Safety Officer (PIU)
Old transforlners    At disposal site     Every lot            Environment &                 100
(landfill)                                Safety Officer (PIU)
Used poles           At disposal site     Every lot            Environment &                 100
(landfill)                                Safety Officer (PIU)
_        _  ~~~~Scrap wire        At disposal site     Every lot            Environment &                 100
(landfill)                                Safety Officer (PIU)
Construction         Dust                 Construction site    Quarterly            Environment &                 500
_________ ________    _Safety Officer (PIU)
Noise                Residential and other  Quarterly          Environment &                1,000
__ _ _____________   receptor sites                             Safety Officer (PIU)
Operation            Electromagnetic field  Nearby residences  Quarterly            Environment &                1,000
Safety Officer (PIU)                          m
Noise                Nearby residences    Quarterly            Environment &                1,000
Safety Officer (PIU)   _
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  |__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   T o tal  5 ,0 0 0
0Q
pa



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 95
Country: West Bank and Gaza                              Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Table 3. Training Plan
Decommissioning        Environmental                   2 days                   1,000
crew                   management; health
& safety
Construction crew      Environmental                    I day                   1,000
management; health
& safety
Operations staff       Environmental                    1 day                   1,000
management; health
.___________________ & safety
Total                  3,000
Table 4. Environment Regulation
PEA/MEA                   Environmental             4 months                     150,000
-_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _   regulation_                  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _
PE| AMEA                  Training                  I month                       50,000
_____________________     ___________________    _   |T otal                     200,000
Table 5. Implementation Schedule
Mitigation             Project launch          Project completion      Project time
Monitoring             Project launch          Project completion      Project time
Institutional          Project launch          Within 6 months         Three weeks
strengthening
Environmental          Project launch          Within 1 year           Four months
regulation
Table 6. Costs
Mitigation                17,000
Monitoring                 5,000
Institutional              33,000
strengthening_
Environmental             200,000
regulation
Environment &               10,000
Safety Officer Salary
Total                 235,000



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                             Page96
Country. West Bank and Gaza                                             Eletric Srctor Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 11
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of 12-Jul-99)
I.!!trence Bet.een
o.pected
Cr;qiral Aronct ir. US$ Y:llions           a-d actual
Fiscal                                                                                                  d4sibuSSs.e:s a/
?:0ject ID     Year             3coroeP:urpose
:3R3      IDA      Cancel.   Und-4is.      Orig    r- Rev' d
pusbe: of Closed ProjeCts: 3
A0tive ProjeCts
oz-SF-53985       :999   PLO FOR 9D.7FIT or PALEST  BETHLEIUD 2000           25.00      0.00       0.00     01.75       6.04        0.00
G2-Sr-5B664       :999    PLO FOR THE aErE:7 OF .-  C         D-,. ::          9.-0      0.00       0.00      6.5C       :.sa        0.00
G:-SF-405C3       1998   GOvERb7I.5T                GAZA INDUSTR.A  EST.      1:.00      0.00       1.00      9.24       2.75        0.00
00.09-47067       0999    WAELFA.E AS-0AT:Cl        PA0.Es;1' bGo PR.         I;.S'                 0.00 1C0.76          -.99        1.48
GZ-SF-40505       1997    PLO IFOR aSEnrlT OF .A ZS  WA0£285h06.S!RV./GA A    25.00      0.00       0.00      1.46       7.09        0.00
GZ-5F-4333a       I997    PALME00100A2J AUTH^:-Y   NMWSIOG                    25.00      0.00       J.00     24.g5       7.25        0.00
C-Z-SE-41065      1991                               1CROETERMrSES-:rt         5.00      0.00       0.00      4.29       2.09         .79    -
GZ-SF-47110       1991   PECDAR                     COMUN7IW   D.r.LCE?T      10.00      0.00       0.00      .32        .66         0.00
GZ-ST-.411;       ;9g7                              LEO.L OVELOPYMOOT          S.50      0.00       0.00      -.43       1.06        o.00
Gz-SF-49706       :991    PALEST0r1A01 AUTY0CRIY    PAL. ?AT.PROF.0O0RArM    3.00        0.00       0.00      2.3;       1.05        0.00
GZ-Sr-43339       1996   PLO/ PA.E ST'bhIIAN ;=0R0TY  84091CI?AL DEV.         40.00      0.00       0.00      9.54       2.84        O.00
GZ-Sr-35994       1.995   PECOAR                    EDUC. *E:r' 0L .R_-Ad     4;.t5      0.00      0.C0      13.75      -2.06        [0.74
.otal                                                                         2:3.90     0.00                114.64     31.30        13.00
h.oti,e Prolects      C!:sed Projects            Total
,oc.a  DiOoursb d ilSR, and IDA):                  98.37               124.45                222.82
of ahich has been repazd:                     0.00                 0.00                  0.00
Total no- held by :3RD and IDA:                   2:2.90               127.11                3:0.01
Amount sold                                         0 00                 0.00                  0.00
o: .lch repa'd             :                      0.00                0.00                  0.00
Totai Urdisb..sed:                                114.64                 2.93                117.51
a. Intended disbursements to date mir.:s actual disbursemen:s to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end Of the first Iaeek of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.
B. Statement Of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-May-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Commined                                    Disbursed
IFC                                         IFC
FY Approval                     Company              Loan       Equity      Quasi      Partic     Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic
1994               APIB                             0.00       3.80       0.00        0.00      0.00       3.73       0.00       0.00
1997               Arab Bank                        0.00       0.00       3.00        0.00      0.00       0.00       .30        0.00
1997               CornBank Palestin                0.00       0.00        1.50       0.00      0.00       0.00       .23        0.00
1997               Jordan National                  0.00       0.00       3.00        0.00      0.00       0.00       .40        0.00
1997               PIECO                            S.00       1.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      1.00       0.00       0.00
1997               SEF Arab Conctet                 .80        0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
1997               SEFNabahin                        .50       0.00       0.00        0.00       .50       0.00       0.00       0.00
1998               PTF                              0.00      11.90       0.00        0.00       0.00      2.38       0.00       0.00
1998               PTF-Mgt Co.                      0.00        .20       0.00        0.00       0.00       .04       0.00       0.00
1998               SEF Al-Ayyam                     1.80       0.00       0.00        0.00       1.80      0.00       0.00       0.00
1998               SEF Pharwmaare                   .41        0.00       0.00        0.00        Al       0.00       0.00       0.00
1999               PTIC                             8.00       1.35        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
1999               SEF Cold Storage                  .20       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00        00        0.00
1999               SEFJerichoMotel                  1.17       0.00       0.00        0.00       1.17      0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                                20.88      18.25        7.50       0.00       ;.SS      7.15        .93       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
-                   ~~~~~Loan   Equitn     Quasi       Partic
1994                           APIB                            15.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
1999                           PMHC                            15.00       4.00       0.00        0.00
Total Ptnding Commitment:                       30.00       4.00        0.00       0.00



Project Appraisal Oocument                                                                                             Page 97
Country. West Bank and Gaza                                             Electric Sector Investmtent and Managerent Project (ESIMP)
Annex 12
West Bank and Gaza at a Glance
West    M. East   Lowv-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  Bank   & North   middle.
& Gaza     Africa  income       Development diamoncr
1997
Population. mid-year (millions)                       2.4       283      2.285                 Uile expe=ancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. USS)                     ..    2.060    1t230
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       ..       583      2,818 
Average annual growth, 1991.97
Population (%)                                        5.5        2.3       1.2     GNP
Laborforce                                            6.3        3.2       1       p3 GN                           Gross
per                      -    pri-rny
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1S91.97)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% otpopulation below naional poventy line)    24
Urban populaion (% of total population)                70        57        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70        67        69   i
Infant mortality (per 1 000 live births)               28        48        36
Child nWnutrition (% of children under 5)              ..         ..                         Aeess to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 90        71        84
Illiteracy (% ofpopufation age 15+)                    16        39        19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   91        97       111   i           West Bank and Gaza
Male                                                 91       102       116         -Lower-middil-ncome grup
Femaie                                               92        91       113    L
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1985     1995      1996      1997
GOP (USS biltions)                           1.0      3.3        3.4       3.3     Economic moos
Gross domestic investment/GDP               28.6     36.4       34.1      34.1
Expons of goods and servicelGOP             30.5     17.0       17.5      17.5                     Trade
Gross domestc savingslGOP                  -31.1     -8.0      .17.7    -17.7
Gross national savingslGOP                   Z.S     18.9        9.5       9.4
Cum nt account balabnreGDP                 .11.0    .17.5      -24.6    -24.6      Domestc
Interest paymenWGDP                           ..       ..         ..        ..    Savings                      Investment
Total debtUGDP                                 ..Savin
Total debt servi e/exports                    ..
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..
Present value of debtlexports                 ..
Indebtecness
1986-94    1995      1996 -   1997   1994-02
(verage annual growth)
GDP                                 7.3     -5.2     -0.8       -0.8                         West Bank aid Gaza
GNP per capita                      1.1     -9.9     -8.2       -3.7        ..        -Lower-middtancome group
Fxport of goods and services        Z7     -19.6     14.4       -0.8        .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1985     1995      1996      1997   I Gnwthn tet ofoutput nmd Ivestment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       !
30 -
Agriculture                                 19.7     14.5       16.3      15.9
Industry                                    24.9     26.8       24.4     24.2   |:
Constnrction                              16.9       9.7       9.4       8.8
Services                                    55.4     58.6       59.3     60.0
Pivate consumpton                          118.2     94.1       95.8      98.4    . -io    2
General government consumption              12.9     13.9       22.0     19.4                  -G0          a  GOP
Imports of goods and services               90.2     61.4       69.3      69.3
1985-94     1995      1996      1997      Grwth mates ofexpomta  u,lnports ()
(average annual growth)
Agrculture                                  13.9     -8.5       11.9      -0.8    ^.
Manufactunng                                 9.7     31.0      -12.4      4.2
Construction                                 9.2      8.3       .3.8     -4.5    20
Private services                            10.5    -12.7       -8.0       3.0                0 
Public services                              4.7      3.6       17.9       3.0                                   r
Private consumption                          4.3     -0.6       10.6      2.1    *Io
General govermentr consumption               7.1    -24.4       56.4    -12.4
Gross domesticinvestmeqft                    0.2     11.6       -4.5      -0.8     °
tmportsofgoodsandservices                    8.4    -16.9       24.3      -0.8                   Expons     :     o s
Gross national product                       5.3     -4.4       -2.6      2.2                                             1
Note: 1997 data are prefiminary estimates.
The diamtonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-grouo average. If data are missing, the diamond vilt
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                    Page 98
Country West Bank and Gaza                                                 Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1985     1995       1996      1997      Infaton /.)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                             30 -
Consumer prices                               289.5     10.1       11.0       7.6      20
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..    12.6       12.3       7.6 6
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes cun-ent grants)                                                      i
Currentrevenue                                 11.0     15.6       20.0      24.7    -10             93    94   es   9f   97
Current budget balance                          2.0     -2.0       -2.8      _1A                 -  GDP deiator  - --CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                        -0.9
TRADE
1985     1995       1996      1997
(US5 millions)                                t985     19S5       t996      1997    i  Export and Import levels (US$ millIons)
Total exports (fob)                            272       414       450                2.soo
n.a                                             .        .I
n.a.                                                                                2000
Manufactures                                    .        ..                    .      5s0
Total imports (ci)                             668    1,784       2,123
Food
Fuelxand energy  .5)                                 ...   ,...0 -     o                                     0050U
Capital goods                                  ..
Export price index (1995=100)                    9.        .          .         .            1   S2   93   94 95  ss   97
Import price index (1995=100)                    a.        .          ..        *                   Exports      Elnports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       .._.._.._|
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$Smillions)                                1985    1995        1996      1997    |Current account balance to GOP ratio t
Exports of goods and services                  305      558        598       585    |
Imports of goods and services                  750    2,014       2,369     2.317                i    D      4
Resource balance                               -445   -1.456     -1,770    -1732
Net income                                     227       534       469       632      ' .
N;et current transfers                         108      349        461       276      -i5s.                          1      .
Current account balance                        -110     -574      -841       -824     -201
Financing items (net)                            ..       ..          .               -2
Changes in net reserves                           ..      ..         ..               .3
Mfemo:
Required reserves with PMA (USS millions)        ..       44       184       239
Conversion rate (DEC, locaW/USS)                1.2      3.0        3.2       3.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1985     1995      1996       1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             .-
IBRD
IDA                                            ..      23         50       103
Total debt service                                ..
l8RD
IDA
Ccmposition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..    441         548       541
Official creditors                             ..      21         27        54
'rivate creditors                              ..       ..          .
F:oreign direct investment                     ..
FPortfolio equity                              .         .
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..      20         85        69
Disbursements                                  ..      21         27        53
Princpal repayments                                      0         0         0
Net flows                                       ..     21         27        53
Interest payments                              ,,        0         0          0
Net transfers                                           21        27         53
World Bank Resident Mission: West Bank and Gaza                                                                         1tol3198



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 99
Country: West Bank and Gaza                        Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
Annex 13
Documents in the Project File'
Project Implementation Plan
1.  West Bank & Gaza, Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP), Project
Implementation Plan, July 12, 1999
2. ESIMP Environmental Management Plan, JDECo, July 12, 1999
Bank Staff Assessments
1.  Economic Analysis*
2. Financial Model for Southern Electric Company*
3.  Financial Model for JDECo
4.  Financial Model for HEPCo
5.  LACI Financial Management System Assessment and Action Plan*
6.  Consultant Terms of Reference for Stage I Rapid Social Assessment
7.  Bank Assessment: Socioeconomic Issues
Other
1.  Audited Financial Statements 1994 - 1998, JDECo
2. Memorandum of Understanding among PEA, NORAD and the Bank on Cooperation in Power
Sector Assistance (June 1997)
3.  Memorandum of Understanding between the municipalities of the southern West Bank, and PEA on
the creation of the Southern Electric Company (July)
4.  Signed Letter of Sector Policy of the Palestinian Authority
5. Draft Contract for the Southern Electric Utility management assistance
6.  Terms of Reference for consulting services for the creation of SELCo
7.  Sample Terms of Reference for the project management consultancy (system rehabilitation and
expansion)
8.  Generation, Transmission and Distribution Master Plan and Emergency Assistance Project for WBG
by Rust, Kennedy and Donkin (1995):
Volume I: Load Forecast
* Methodology
* Existing System
* Load Forecast; Gaza, West Bank
Volume II: Generation Master Plan
* Planning assumptions
* Generation Planning in the Gaza Strip
* Generation Planning in the West Bank
* Technical Annex:
> Economic Parameters
> Shadow Wage Rates
)0 Long-run Marginal Costs/Loss of Load/Consumer Surplus
Volume III: Assessing the Viability of Relocating the Shufat Power Station
Volume IV: Emergency Works
* Description of System
* Measurement Philosophy
* Assessment of System
* Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 100
Country: West Bank and Gaza                       Electnc Sector Investment and Management Proect (ESIMP)
* Proposed Emergency Works/Budgetary Cost Estimates;
Volume V: Transmission Master Plan
* Generation and Distribution Master Plans
* Outline of Transmission Planning
* Detailed Transmission Planning
* System Design
> Economic Analysis
>  Load Flow Analysis
> Fault Level Analysis
> Stability Analysis
Volume VI: Loss Reduction
*  Loss Assessment Methodology
*  Loss Assessment for Central West Bank
* Loss Assessment for Southern West Bank
* Reconciliation of Losses for Complete System
* Loss Reduction Measures Philosophy
* Non-technical Losses
* Conclusions and Recommendations
Volume VII: Distribution Master Plan
* Design Philosophy and Methodology
* Long-term System Development for Gaza
* Long-term System Development for the Northern West Bank
* Long-term System Development for the Central West Bank
* Long-term System Development for the Southern West Bank
* System Integration
* Low Voltage System Development
* Fault Levels
* Protection and Control
* Conclusions and Recommendations
9. Energy Sector Institutional and Regulatory Institutional Development Study by IVO International
(Four Part Report, 1996):
Part I: Policy, Strategy and the Society and Economy:
* Energy Sector Policy and Strategy: Issues and Concerns
* Socioeconomic Background of Energy Sector Development
Part II: Fuel and Power Sector Status, Plans and Prospects
* Palestinian Fuel Supply Study
* Review of Palestinian Power System Studies
* Power System Control and Interconnection Study
* Fuel and Power Market Study
* Power Load Management in the Palestinian Power Systems
* Fuel and Power Sector Information Management
* Palestinian Electricity Pricing and Tariffs
Part III: Energy Sector Organization and Financial Restructuring
* Energy Sector Entities and Financial Restructuring
Part IV: Energy Sector Legislation and Regulation
* Palestinian Energy Sector Legal Structure and Content
* Power Sector Business Regulation
* Energy Sector Environmental Regulation
> Main Environmental Issues in the WBG
>  Present Environmental Regulation in the WBG



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 101
Country: West Bank and Gaza                         Electric Sector Investment and Management Project (ESIMP)
> Recommended Palestinian Energy Sector Environmental Regulation System
>  Environmental Protection Policies
>  Integrated Environmental Regulation
>  Land Use Planning and Control
>  Water Protection
>  Air Protection
>  Waste Management
>  Chemicals
* Law Models for Developing Energy Legislation
10. Performance-based Management Contract (model)
11. Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines for Electric Power Transmission and Distribution,
published by the International Finance Corporation, July 1998
12. Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines for PCBs as issued by the International Finance
Corporation, July 1998



3s!00'        S           0lo 1&3                 35s20'                   35'30'
WEST BANK AND GAZA
ELECTRICITY SECTOR
fill                             >                                            INVESTMENT AND
3230'   MANAGEMENT PROJECT
.Yao0 0                                                                         PROPOSED PROJECT AREA {REHABILITATION AND
REINFORCEMENT OF EXISTING 11 kV AND 33 kV
Kof{nJ-           abad .    '       Jenin                                                       NETWORK
F   nn   e   P Knffeen  . .4 Ya'bud   f                {,              EN- is                  -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~11/33 kV OVERHEAD LINES
E  F  o . _  _ i o                                      -     ISRAELI ELECTRICITY COMPANY
,_n fF                                     jJ8 gj tia  Qnbniln >> t ! 161 kV LINES
m J . 2 E g N S,9                                     <   s > A N   JERUSALEM DISTRICT ELECTRICITY COMPANY
11/33 kV SUBSTATIONS
d    ISRAELI ELECTRICITY COMPANY
>                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~161 kV 5UBSTATIONS
-¢    r                                  %S S , 6 ;3220'
-Xlulkorm wAnopint  '~ r iTubas                                       3. BUILT-UP AREAS
EtE'rkar25   A o.bw ->  .' .    P  ,2                                                         -      ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
'K M                                 J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kammiun                    [77NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
-l                     -                                                                            ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949
JERUSALEM CITY UMIT, UNILATERALLY
J  w   -  r  ,  Nablus                                              EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980
_2   s ' <  9 5   >   g  <                                      t                +~~~~~~~~~ AIRPORT
Qaiqitych  -,                                                                  ±~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AIRFIELDS
3210'                         taqla 5 B'a q                   A                                                     3310' L  -       DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
32'10'                                                                                 3210'- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  --INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
EA )~ Q f -- 4VW  E S T                                 ,                                        o0    5    10  15 KILOMETERS
AVI-                                           M,A N I                                                                         TOlO MI1                lETMLE
$FO                              -                   B S    AI-ed   N                                                   Thn coop woT  p - Pd-d by 6n op t esign Unift o The Wo-ld B-ok.
Led                               --'The b-odorieo, colo-s dn-io,ni-on -d -,y to6r,- oo,noio
International          |;   'henno oo 'hh                                                                                            o 4h n-  ,p- r  py  pe oh. p., d Th. oWonO-k G-p,
Al,pa,t                                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oy jdgn-to- thenleg. lNcooc  -(oy t-nn0y, o, -ny -d--sne
3200'                                                                                                         0   32'0'-
ISRAEL                            R A                                                 2S  )                                       t
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ mOo To,nn,,ssW 
/         L   NBi9obk   f  -,=ORDAN
31'40'   /      >         /\    1t  tD-                            ,5 2 js5-0- jU :wit > -_*;  j 31 40'EV\   3430        3soor         i JeoichoMILE
W ~           ~ ~~                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ E    
(  BANK    '10
-31500                                                                                                             31"pO0O"                                               AMMn'AN
5  5,                                                                                                              IE h lon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ho1~~~J  Mdb
JERUSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  EUA~'5~Mslb
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10 MILAFEOS
3100O'                                                                                                -           31 40'-        34'300'0wI
E-rinc0,cy C.                                                                                 e                      ~- 
31'30'                                                             '                                              31-30-
I S R A E L
"iThahriah                                     '~IKkon
Y-s,n                                   31'20'-
/~~~~~~~~~~
3130'                                                           "                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31'20-
ARAB 'k            0      0      10      15 -<IMETERS
C                                                      )  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~~~~~~~~~REP.OF\     o                           IE
3450'             ~~~~~~35-To'              35; 10O'                 35320'                    3530                    EGP             3-0                    0000          5



