FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1551-CK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A MINING EXPANSION PROJECT
January 2, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Unit:  Zaire)
US$1 =      .Z 0-.5
Z l =                                 US$ 2.0
Z 1, 000 =                          . US$ 2,000
Z 1,000,000 =                         US$ 2,000,000



REPORT AND RECUMMENDATION OF THE FRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A FROPO)D LWAp TO IA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUJBLC OF ZAIRE FOR A
MINING EXPANSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to La Gen6rale des Carrieres et des Mines (Gecamines) with the
guarantee of the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of US $100 million
to help finance a project for the expansion of the company's copper and
cobalt mining and refining capacity. The loan would have a tenm of 15
years, including four years of grace, with interest at 8 percent per
annum, and a guarantee fee of 2 percent per annum, payable to the
Government. The project would be co-financed by the Libyan Arab Republic
acting through the Libyan Arab Fbreign Bank (LAFB) in an amount of 30
million Libyan dinars (us $100,700,000 equivalent) and on terms idenrtical
in most respects to those of the Bank, and by the Earopean Inmvestment bank
(EIB) in an amount of 16,600,000 units of account (US $20,000,000 equiv-
alent) on terms similar to those of the Hank but at an interest rate of
10-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONI4Y
2.        A basic Economic Mission visited Zaire i April-May of 1974, and
it is expected that its report will be issued in the first quarter of
this year (March 1975). The conclusions of the mission are summarized
in this report. The most recent report on the economy of Zaire is dated
March 5, 1973, "Recent Economic Developments and Prospects of the Republic
of Zaire (AE-31a, 2 Vol.). A Country Data Sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        7aire is potentially one of the richest member countries of the Bank
because of its mineral, agricultural and energy resources. It is also one of the
poorest in terms of per capita income. Few countries have suffered as
much disruption and chaos as did Zaire in the first 6-7 years of its
independence. Political order and stability were established in 1967 and
only then did the Government of Zaire take a number of measures for
economic stabilization and reform. These measures included devaluation
of the national currency, increases in import and export taxes, steps
toward the organization and centralization of the government budget, and
a tightening of the Bank of Zaire's control over foreign transactions and the
banking system.  The copper company, Union MiniAre du Haut-Katanga, was
nationalized and a new government-owned company, Gecamines, was formed.
Compensation for this and external debts owed to Belgium were settled.
In 1969, an Investment Code was promulgated giving sizeable tax incentives
to foreign and domestic investment. In November 1973, the Government
initiated new measures to place the economy more firmly in national hands
by transferring small and medium size commercial and agricultural enter-
prises from foreign to Zairian ownership.
4.        Subsequent to the 1967-68 measures the country's economic
performance improved dramatically: GDP grew by 10-11 percent annually in
1967-70, Government savings rose to US $110 million in 1970, compared to
a deficit in 1966, while capital expenditures increased considerably.



-2-
Zaire's resource surplus grew from $15 million in 1966-67, to $60 million
in 1969-70.  These favorable.developments were due, in part, to good
uopper prices which increased by over 25 percent between 1966-67 and 1968-70
and to increases in copper production which rose from 317,000 tons in 1966
to 385,000 tons in 1970 (and to 475,000 tons in 1973). The rapid recovery
of 1967-70 was helped by the availability of unused capacity, in industry
and transport, which had survived destruction and deterioration in the
early 1960's.
Between 1970 and 1973 GDP growth slowed down to an annual rate
of 5^5 percent due to lower average copper prices and a decline in unused
capacity. Growth has continued in manufacturing, government services and
other sectors that depend on copper revenues, but agriculture has declined
irn terms of exports and more generally in terms of production. The con-
tinuirng decline in plantation agriculture has probably been the single
rost important factor causing the massive rural exodus which is swelling the
city population, whose growing food requirements have had to be met by
imports. The major economic problem of Zaire is that despite considerable
aglicult.ural and forestry resources the growth of agriculture has lagged
far behind that of the other sectors. Consequently Zaire's economic
development is based narrowly on mining - principally copper - and thus
is subject to the fluctuations in world market conditions.
6.        The Government stated at the last Consultative Group Meeting
(November 1973) that it expected a 6 percent rate of growth. In the ab-
sence of a development plan or a comprehensive investment program, it is
not certain that this target can be achieved. It is not, however, out of
line with past performance. In fact, an analysis of the major projects
under implementation, particularly in mining, suggests that the average
growth rate for 1974-80 could be somewhat higher than 6 percent with only
slight improvements in present performance and policies. Given the
physical resource endowment of the country, this growth target is not
high, but given the problems the country faces in managing its development,
the question is whether it can utilize this growth to lay a sound foun-
dation for long-term, balanced development.
7.        The problem of management capacity has been made more acute by
the Government's policy of increasing national control over the country's
resources. The pursuit of this objective started in the mid-1960's with
the nationalization of Union Mini4re and culminated in November 1973 with
the transfer to Zairian ownership, i.e., mostly to individuals, of
foreign-owned plantations, and retail and wholesale trade. Thus many of
those who contributed to the management of the economy have been forced to
leave the country.  Despite this, the Government remains basically committed
to cooperation with foreign capital. It wants, however, to carry out this
cooperation on new bases, implying a decrease in foreign influence and a
greater role for Zairian nationals in management positions. This is
indicated by the fact that investments made under the 1969 Investment Code
were not affected by the nationalization (Zairianization) measures of 1973.



8.        The Government has thus far not succeeded in formulating a
consistent, well designed investment program and in mobilizing sufficient
local resources to implement it. Limitations on trained manpower are
greatest at the middle and lower echelons and this deficiency makes economic
decision making and execution difficult. As a result, government adminis-
tration tends to be inefficient, centralized and unduly reliant on a few
individuals. This situation is, however, improving. Ehrollment in higher
education has grown from nil in 1960 to 16,000 in 1973 and in secondary
education from 34,000 in 1960 to 308,000 in 1973.  The recent Zairianization
measures may have the effect of spurring the creation of an entrepreneurial
class. In the government administration, a planning team in the Office
of the President recruited by the Bank and funded by UNDP, should make a
substantial contribution to improved economic management by providing the
necessary analysis, perspectives and coordination.
9.        Most domestic investment takes place in State-owned enterprises
which contribute a major share of the industrial output. They are usually
organized as commercial enterprises, but owing to limited availability of
management resources and lack of overall planning they do not always
operate efficiently. When objectives are clearly defined and adequate
priority is accorded to them, substantial improvements are obtained. This
is shown by the excellent performance of Gecamines and KDL, the Railway
Company serving it.
10.       Another major constraint for Zaire has been its inability to
maintain domestic savings at their previous high level: gross domestic
savings fell from about 27 percent in 1968-69 to about 21 percent in 1973
due mainly to deterioration in the Government?s current budget. Govern-
ment current expenditures grew at an annual rate of 17 percent during the
1969-73 period, while revenues went up by only 15 percent. In 1971 and
1972, when copper prices and government revenues fell, the Government
succeeded in checking the growth of expenditures by freezing government
employment and wages. In 1973, however, as copper prices improved, current
expenditures rose byT 33 percent, faster than revenues. There are indications
that the 1974 results will be similar to those of 1973, but this will be
due mainly to the payment of subsidies to the State-owned petroleum im-
porting company (SOZIR) in order to finance its deficit resulting from
higher oil prices. In the second half of 1974 prices of goods and services
marketed by state owned entities (including petroleum) have been raised,
some of them very substantially. The budget performance may therefore
improve in 1975.
11.      Revenues are closely linked with foreign trade, especially
copper exports which provide over 40 precent of total tax revenues, and
are, therefore, very dependent on fluctuations in world copper prices.
This is accentuated by the fact that export taxes on copper are progres-
sive with respect to prices. Scope for increased government revenues is
also iimited as current governmenit revenue is already about 24 percent of
GDP. Any improvement in public savings will call for restraint in
government current expenditure.



12.       Medium term prospects for export earnings and government
revenues are good. After a decline in 1975, world copper prices are
expected to recover substantially over the remainder of the decade,
although in real terms they are not likely to regain the average 1974
level by 1980. Zaire's export earnings are expected, nevertheless, to
grow by about 13 percent per annum in 1974-80.
13.       From 1''(7 to 1-7", the last year for which some data are
available,goverronent capital expenditure grew from US$3'? million to
about US$?l;0 rnillion.  In 1'-97, 62 percent of the financing for these
expenditures was provided by external resources, 23 percent by monetary
expansion and 15 percent from the current budget surplus.   The investment
budget is heavily oriented towards energr, air transport, communications,
and manufacturing.  For example, in 1972, government investment in
agriculture and education was only about 6 percent of totl investment.
Diversified growth will require a greater variety of investments with
mcre emphasis given to agriculture and related activites, including
rural transport-ation.
1L.       In the 197C-7? period, capitnl inflows to Zaire amounted
to about US$23, million a year.   About 6? percent of tnis was provided
by loan disbursements, one third by direct foreign investment and the
balance was assured by grants. On the average Zaire has received govern-
ment assistance of US$85 million per year in the period 19'70-7?.   Belgium
was the largest source of assistance (US $32 million a year), followed
by the EED (US $17 million a year), and USAID (US $12 million). Two
thirds of aid disbursements were for technical assistance and scholarships.
Capital inflows for 1973 are estimated at about US $325 million.
15.       Data on Zaire's external debt are incomplete.   The last Bank
economic mission estimated that external debt, including undisbursed,
may have increased in 1973 by $660 million, the outstanding commitments
at the end of the year reaching $1,400 million. The disbursed portion of
this debt was, at the end of 1973, about US $800 million. The average
grant element in the outstanding debt is estimated at about 25 percent.
Capital inflows should grow from US $355 million in 1972 to about US $700
million in 1980. The increase of the annual average for 197h-80 over the
1970-72 period would be about 30 percent in real terms and 150 percent in
current terms. In order to assure this level of loan disbursements, some
US $3,200 million in new commitments would be needed for 1973-80, or about
US $460 million annually.
16.       External debt service payments which were estimated at about US $80
million in 1973, are expected to rise to US $355 million in 1977 and to about
US $490 million in 1980. The debt service ratio would rise from about 6.0
percent in 1973 to a peak of about 17 percent in 1977, when many loans
contracted in 1972-73 start to mature. The ratio would probably stabilize
around 15-16 percent in the 1980's. Although on the average, the debt
service level should be manageable, the economy will remain vulnerable to
copper price fluctuations since copper exports will be about 70 percent of
total export earnings in 1980, compared to 65 percent in 1973. The Bank of
'7
Zaire reserves amounted to $185 million at the end of September 1974,
representing one and a half months of imports of goods and services.
These reserves were down by $50 million compared to the level at the end
1973.



8.        The Government has thus far not succeeded in formulating a
consistent, well designed investment program and in mobilizing sufficient
local resources to implement it. Limitations on trained manpower are
greatest at the middle and lower echelons and this deficiency makes economic
decision making and execution difficult. As a result, government adminis-
tration tends to be inefficient, centralized and unduly reliant on a few
individuals. This situation is, however, improving. Enrollment in higher
education has grown from nil in 1960 to 16,000 in 1973 and in secondary
education from 34,000 in 1960 to 308,000 in 1973. The recent Zairianization
measures may have the effect of spurring the creation of an entrepreneurial
class. In the government administration, a planning team in the Office
of the President recruited by the Bank and funded by UNDP, should make a
substantial contribution to improved economic management by providing the
necessary analysis, perspectives and coordination.
9.        Most domestic investment takes place in State-owned enterprises
which contribute a major share of the industrial output. They are usually
organized as commercial enterprises, but owing to limited availability of
management resources and lack of overall planning they do not always
operate efficiently. When objectives are clearly defined and adequate
priority is accorded to them, substantial improvements are obtained. This
is shown by the excellent performance of Gecamines and KDL, the Railway
Company serving it.
10.       Another major constraint for Zaire has been its inability to
maintain damestic savings at their previous high level: gross domestic
savings fell from about 27 percent in 1968-69 to about 21 percent in 1973
due mainly to deterioration in the Government's current budget. Govern-
ment current expenditures grew at an annual rate of 17 percent during the
1969-73 period, while revenues went up by only 15 percent. In 1971 and
1972, when copper prices and government revenues fell, the Government
succeeded in checking the growth of expenditures by freezing government
employment and wages. In 1973, however, as copper prices improved, current
expenditures rose by 33 percent, faster than revenues. There are indications
that the 1974 results will be similar to those of 1973, but this will be
due mainly to the payment of subsidies to the State-owned petroleum im-
porting company (SOZIR) in order to finance its deficit resulting from
higher oil prices. In the second half of 1974 prices of goods and services
marketed by state owned entities (including petroleum) have been raised,
some of them very substantially. The budget performance may therefore
improve in 1975.
11.      Revenues are closely linked with foreign trade, especially
copper exports which provide over 40 prcent of total tax revenues, and
are, therefore, very dependent on fluctuations in world copper prices.
This is accentuated by the fact that export taxes on copper are progres-
sive with respect to prices. Scope for increased government revenues is
also limited as current governmenit revenue is already about 24 percent of
GDP. Any improvement in public savings w.lU call for restraint in
government current expenditure.



12.       Medium term prospects for export earnings and government
revenues are good. After a decline in 1975, world copper prices are
expected to recover substantially over the remainder of the decade,
although in real terms they are not likely to regain the average 1974
level by 1980.  Zaire's export earnings are expected, nevertheless, to
grow by about 13 percent per annum in 1974-80.
73.       P    Prom 167 to lc7^, the last year f'or whi ch some data are
available,government capital expenditure grew from US$3'] million to
about US$?hO million.  In 197?, 6^ percent of the financing for these
expenditures was provided by external resources, 23 percent by monetary
expansion and 15 percent from the current budget surplus.   The investment
budget is heavily oriented towards energy, air transport, communications,
and minufacturing.  For example, in 197?, government investment in
agriculture and education was onlv about 6 percent of tota i'nvestment.
Diversified growth will require a greater variety of investments with
more emphasis given to agriculture and related activites, including
rural transportation.
IL.       In the 1970-7? period, capital inflows to Zaire amounted
to about US$23', rillion a year.  About 6? percent of this was provided
by loan disbursements, one third by direct foreign investment and the
balance was assured by grants.   On the average Zaire has received govern-
,menrt assistance of US$$5 nLillion per year in the period 1 70-7?.  belgium
was the largest source of assistance (US $32 million a year), followed
by the EED (US $17 million a year), and USAID (US $12 million). Two
thirds of aid disbursements were for technical assistance and scholarships.
Capital inflows for 1973 are estimated at about US $325 million.
15.       Data on Zaire's external debt are incomplete.   The last Bank
economic mission estimated that external debt, including undisbursed,
nay have increased in 1973 by $660 million, the outstanding commitments
at the end of the year reaching $1,400 million. The disbursed portion of
this debt was, at the end of 1973, about US $800 million. The average
grant element in the outstanding debt is estimated at about 25 percent.
Capital inflows should grow from US $355 million in 1972 to about US $700
million in 1980. The increase of the annual average for 1974-80 over the
1970-72 period would be about 30 percent in real terms and 150 percent in
current terms. In order to assure this level of loan disbursements, some
US $3,200 million in new commitments would be needed for 1973-80, or about
US $460 million annually.
16.       External debt service payments which were estimated at about US $80
million in 1973, are expected to rise to US $355 million in 1977 and to about
US $490 million in 1980. The debt service ratio would rise from about 6.0
percent in 1973 to a peak of about 17 percent in 1977, when many loans
contracted in 1972-73 start to mature. The ratio would probably stabilize
around 15-16 percent in the 1980's. Although on the average, the debt
service level should be manageable, the economy will remain vulnerable to
copper price fluctuations since copper exports will be about 70 percent of
total export earnings in 1980, compared to 65 percent in 1973. The Bank of
Zaire reserves amounted to $185 million at the end of September 1974,
representing one and a half months of imports of goods and services.
These reserves were down by $50 million compared to the level at the end
1973.



- 5 -
17.      Apart from copper Zaire potentially has an abundant supply of
many commodities for which shortages are expected elsewhere in the world:
electrical energy, tropical woods, many agricultural products, and several
minerals. Recent discoveries of oil will in the next few years enable
zaire to satisfy its internal needs. It may also become a minor exporter
of petroleum towards the end of the 1970's, although the above projections
do not take into account this possibility.
PART II - B&NK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
18.      Since 1969 Zaire has received eight IDA credits totaling US $72
million for transports development finance company operations, agriculture and
education projects. The Bank has also extended grants totaling US $4000000
as a contribution tow,ard the cost of two planning assistance missions in
Zaire. Our past assistance to Zaire has been small compared to the needs
of the country. The main limiting factor has been inadequate project
preparation and implementation capability in the Government. This con-
straint is slowly being overcome, and the proposed loan marks the first
Bank operation in Zaire since its independence. Zaire has not yet es-
tablished its full creditworthiness for Bank lending, therefore, special
arrangements, described in paragraph 50, are proposed to ensure service
of the present loan. We expect to present to the Executive Directors in
the near future two IDA credits totaling US $52 million: negotiations for
a credit of US $26 million for a Third Highway Project have been completed
and we plan to invite the Government to negotiate a US $26 million credit
for a Second Rail/River Project. These three operations will bring to
fruition efforts we have made in the past few years to improve our relations
with Zaire. Moreover, two of these projects would be co-financed; the Bank/IDA
would thus take a major step toward acting as a catalyst in obtaining for
Zaire additional capital assistance and assuring that capital assistance is
directed more effectively toward high priority projects. The IFC, which has a
US $760,000 participation in SOFIDE, the local development finance company, is also
making a major effort to identify projects in Zaire suitable for its financing.
19.       Disbursements on past IDA credits have been slow and amount to
only about US $25 million to date.  Project implementation has also, been
slow due primarily to the inadequacies of the country's manpower and its
management capacity. For example, execution of the First Education
Project (1972) was delayed because of administrative weakness and cost
overruns are now probable. Also, the execution of the technical assist-
ance component of the Second Highway Project (1972) was poorly conceived
and implemented and the civil works are only now getting started. In
general, projects in transport have lagged because of the shortage of
experienced and skilled local personnel, difficulties in recruiting key
expatriate experts, delays in procurement and in the implementation of
organizational reforms. On the other hand, certain autonomous entities
which have benefited from IDA credits, the Development Finance Com-
pany, the National Livestock Development Authority and the National
Transport Authority are all executing IDA-financed projects in an acceptable
manner. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC
investments as of November 30, 1974, and indicates progress in the
execution of ongoing projects.



-6-
20.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution-building. A Zairian DFC, the Soci6te Financiere de De-
veloppement (SOFIDE), was established with assistance from IFC and IDA,
and began operations under tne direction of a Bank-seconded General
Manager, since reDlaced by a Zairian. The River Transport Project
helped strengthen the agencies concerned with waterways, i.e., the
Office National des Transports (ONATRA), the R6gie des Voies Fluviales
(RVF), and the R6gie des Voies Maritimes (RVM). The First and Second
Highway Projects provided technical assistance to establish and
operate the Bureau of Roads. The Education Project included a man-
power survey which will furnish necessary data for a review of the
educational system, and the Livestock Project helped establish the
National Livestock Developmient Authority which has since acquired
responsibilities beyond the project area.
21.       Zaire's great potential will remain unrealized unless a major
effort is made to break the main constraints to development:
(a) the shortage of skilled mRnpower and the overall weakness of the
institutions with direct developmet responsibilities; (b) the lack of
basic infrastructure; (c) the continuous decline in agricultural
production; and (d) the poor social conditions, rural poverty and
urban unemployrLent. The Bank Group's main effort will therefore be
directed towards transport, agriculture and education, high priority sectors
in which the Bank should be able to make a contribution to institution
building. This concentration should help the Bank Group assist the
Government to implement appropriate policies in these critical sectors.
It is also clear that in most projects we will have to provide for tran-
sitional technical assistance and training. We are also preparing projects
in population, industry, water and power.
22.       Lack of transport is the major physical impediment to the country's
development. The Government's investment plan contemplates the completion
f the Voie Nationale railway from Shaba to the Atlantic Coast at the
proposed port of Banana. This includes the construction of two new rail
links, Ilebo to Kinshasa and Matadi to Banana, both of which are gaps in
the railroad line from Lubumbashi to Kinshasa and the coast. The Govern-
ment has placed considerable emphasis on the improvement of the country's
river/rail arterial network and the Association is helping to finance both
new investments and studies designed to extend and improve this system.
At the same time, more and better roads are essential for inter-regional
commerce, and as a feeder network for the development of agriculture. The
Bank Group is also supporting the Government's efforts to improve its
road maintenance performance and rehabilitate its secondary road system.
On the other hand, agriculture is not receiving sufficient attention from the
Government. The agricultural and forestry potential of the country is
unusually large, but little has been done to exploit this advantage. This
situation must be corrected if the Government expects to stabilize the
rural population and to let it share in some of the economic and social
advantages enjoyed by the urban population. In agriculture we will have to
give preference in the short run to increasing agricultural production
including large scale plantations, while seeking on the other hand to
build a rural development capacity in the Government.



7
23.       The Bank Group's program in education will be directed toward
reform of the curriculum and non-formal and vocational education. In this
area, and in population as well, our purpose will be to assist the Govern-
ment in framing appropriate policies through project formulation. In
industry, we propose to continue our support for the local Development
Finance Company (SOFIDE). In both water and power our assistance would
be limited and directed toward assuring broader acces to these facilities
and strengthening the executing agencies.
,.        The expansion of the Bank Group's activities in Zaire will
be possible only if substantial efforts towards improving the countryts
economic management are initiated and Sustained progress is achieved.
Considering the state of disintegration within the country in the
early 160's, the political and economic cohesion attained since then
has been remarkable. However, the lack of a comprehensive investment
plan, the rapid rise in public expenditures and external borrowings,
and the insufficient allocation of resources in agriculture are serious
problems which have to be corrected promptly if the overall economic
potential of the country is to be realized. The Government is aware of
the pressing need to take corrective action. A Planning Team of eight
experts, financed by the UNDP and recruited by the Bank, has started
work in the Office of the President, advising on key problems of the
economy and assisting the Government in preparing an investment plan and
establishing more appropriate budget and borrowing procedures. This
team has been very favorably received by the Government and should be
able to make a substantial contribution. The Government will report on
all these matters at the next Consultative Group meeting tentatively
scheduled for May 1975.
25.       Another step that will help the Bank monitor developments in
Zaire in general and progress towards the short term improvement dis-
cussed in the preceding paragraph in particular is the expansion of the
Bank's Resident Mission in Zaire. The Mission now has six professional
staff, including the division chief, two loan officers, an agricultural
expert and two transportation experts. A senior economist will join
the Mission in the near future.
PART III - THE MINING SECTOR
26.       Zaire's copper industry, founded in 1906, is located in Shaba
province in the south-eastern part of the country. Zaire is the world's
sixth largest producer of copper, after the USA, USSR, Chile, Zambia,
and Canada, accounting for about 8 percent of the Western world's production,
excluding scrap recovery. Zaire's copper mines also yield several by-products
such as cobalt, zinc, cadmium, germanium, silver and gold. Cobalt is the most
valuable by-product with exports amounting to 16,400 tons in 1973 or about 60
percent of the world's cobalt production.
27.        The Government of Zaire has given high priority to the development
of the copper sector during the past five years. The authorities consider
that in the medium term an increase in mining would be the fastest, most
reliable way to increase foreign exchange earnings and raise government revenues.



-8-
This policy is directed toward the expansion of Gecamines, the attraction
of foreign private investment for new mining ventures, and the construction
of additional copper refining capacity in Zaire. The Government has, there-
fore, granted new exploration and mining rights to two foreign controlled
companies--SODIMIZA (Societe de Developpement Industriel et Mini6re du
ZaTre) and SMTF (Societ'e Lini6re de Tenke-Fungurume).  SODIMIZA started
production of copper concentrates in 1972 and SMTF is expected to start
production in 1978.
28.       The expansion plans of the three copper mining companies, Gecamines,
SODIMIZA and SMTF, indicate substantial increases in Zaire's copper out-
put in the next six years. By the end of this decade the country's copper
production should increase by some 330,000 tons. This is a more rapid
rate of growth than the h percent growth rate expected for world copper
demand in the last half of the 1970's. However, due to the high grade
quality of Zaire's ore and the industry's relatively low production
costs, it is expected that it will be able to sell its production at
remunerative prices.
29.       Copper is characterized by short-term  elasticities of supply
and demand which generate large swings in its price. In 1974 copper reached
the unusually high level of $1.52/lb. in April only to drop in December to
around $0.56/lb. Recently the International Governmental Council of
Copper Exporting Countries (CIPEC) decided that member countries should
cut their copper exports by 10 percent. This is considered to be a short
term measure which will help to offset the liquidation of copper inventories
in importing countries and speed up the expected cyclic upswing in its
price.
30.        Gecamines, the successor of Union Miniere du Haut-Katanga, pro-
duces at present about 460,000 tons of copper, 16,000 tons of cobalt and
78,000 tons of zinc. Gecamines holds a concession to 18,000 sq. km which
covers most of the copper arc in Shaba. The companyts deposits are among
the highest grade copper reserves presently known in the world. Total
reserves are 646 million tons of ore grading on average about 4.0 percent
copper. The reserves are sufficient for over 40 years at the pro-
jected rate of mining with the overall potential probably twice the
known reserve. The company operates seven open pits and three under-
ground mines which produce respectively some 10 million and 3.9 million
tons of ore per year. The Company refines about 230,000 tons of copper or
more than 50 percent of its copper output in Zaire. The remaining production
cons'sting of cathode, blister and crude copper is processed in Belgium.
31.        Following the nationalization of Union Miniere and the creation
of Gecamines, the Company's management initiated an expansion program designed
to increase copper production from 365,000 tons in 1969 to 600,000 tons by
1980. In its first 5-Year Expansion Program (1970-74) the Company ex-
panded copper production to 460,000 tons in 1974 and cobalt production to
about 16,000 tons per annum. Investment costs for this first expansion
reached Z130 million financed by internal cash generation and loans totaling
US $32 million from the US Eximbank and the European Investment Bank. After



-9-
the completion of the second 5-Tear Expansion Program (197h-79), Gecamines
plans to implement a further investment program which would increase the
Company's production of refined copper to 650,000 tons by 19A4. Thi.s objective
will involve the improvement of the existing facilities in Lubumbashi,
Luilu and Shituru at an estimated investment cost of US $3h0 million (in 1974
prices).
32.       Historically, the Zairian copper industry has both refined a
large portion of its own production and developed the necessary support
industries. Horizontal integration has made Gecamines a relatively self
sufficient producer. The major reason for this structure is the location
of the Zairian copper industry in the center of Africa, and the fact that
for decades Gecamines (UMHK) was the only producer. SODmIMZA and SMTF
have also adopted a similar pattern for their operations. The imnort_nr--
of the industry to the economy is indicated by the fact that it consumes
about three quarters of the electricity produced in the country and Gecamines
alone shipped 240,000 tons of minerals via the Zairian port of Matadi in
1973, representing 83 percent of the annual tonnage shipped over that
route.  The industry also provided important economic and social services
consisting mainly of expenditures on housing, education, and health.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.        The Appraisal Report for this project entitled "Appraisal of
Gecamines Expansion Project, Zaire" (No. 576-CK dated Doeember 26, 1974 in
two volumes) is being distributed separately. A Loan and Project Summary is
in Annex III. The project provides for the expansion of the Company's copper
and cobalt production facilities by 120,000 and 4,000 tons respectively to a
total capacity of 590,000 tons and 20,000 tons. It includes the development
of two open pit mines, construction of metallurgical and ancillary facilities,
expansion of the company's industrial and administrative infrastructure, and
construction of housing and social facilities for its employees.
34.       The project was prepared by Gecamines with the assistance of
the Belgian Compagnie des Entreprises (CFE). In november 1973, President
Mobutu requested the Bank to participate in its financing. The appraisal
mission was joined in the field by representatives of the Government of
Libya and the European Investment Bank, which had indicated their interest
in co-financing the project. Co-financing arrangements were worked out
with the Libyan Government and the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank (LAFB) during
discussions held by representatives of the Bank in Tripoli in June and in
Washington in September and October. The European Investment Bank (EIB)
was a party to those latter discussions. The EIB loan was negotiated the
28th and 29th of November in Luxembourg and colender discussions among the
Bank, the LAFB and the EIB were held in Washington December 2 and 3.
Negotiations between the LAFB and Gecamines and the Government of Zaire,
with representatives of the Bank of Zaire, and the Societe Zafroise de
Commercialisation des Minerais (SOZACOM) also present, were started on
December 4 and were joined by the Bank on December 5. They were concluded



- 10 -
December 10. The LAFB was represented by Mr. A. Saudi, President of the LAFB
and Mr. S. Zenaty, Director of Investments.  The Zairian Delegation was led
by Mr. Zola, Director General of SOZACUM and included Mr. Umba, Director
General of Gecamines, Mr. Mawakani, Deputy Director of the Banque de Zaire,
Mr. Nsungani, Legal Advisor in the Office of the President, and Mr. N.
Rocher, Financial Director of Gecamines.
35.         The project represents the first Bank loan to Zaire since the
country's independence and the first direct involvement of the Bank in the
country's industrial sector. The Government sought Hank involvement in
part to assure the prospective financing of the project by the Government of
Libya. But of equal importance to the Government and Gecaxines was the
assurance that the proposed financing scheme would allow the company to execute
the expansion program on a basis of international competitive bidding and
without straining its debt structure. In view of the Bank's participation
and the development nature of the project the Government of Libya agreed to
make its loan at the same interest rate as that of the Hank. The associat;ion
of the Bank in the financing of this project should also assist the Com-
pany to execute it efficiently and to improve certain aspects of its own
management.
The Company: Gecamines is the successor company of the
former Union Mini6re du Haut-Katanga (UMHK) nationalized by the Governmen-T
of Zaire in 1967.  An agreement for technical cooperation among the Govern-
ment, Gecamines, and the 6ocifte G&n6rale des Minerais (SGM), the Belgian
holding company of UMHK, was concluded at the same time that the compensation
question was settled. This agreement was renegotiated in 1974 to provide for
a lump sum compensation payment to SGM.
37.        The Company operates under the direct supervision of the Office of
the President of the Republic of Zaire. The General Manager and his deputy
are appointed by the President who also authorizes any long-term debts and
the acquisition, liquidation or transfer of financial assets. In 1973, a
Zairian mining engineer with more than ten years of experience in Gecamines
was appointed General Manager. He is assisted by a well-qualified managerial
and technical staff of 2,b00, including 925 Zairians. The Company employs
about 29,000 people.
3E.        Project Description:   The project is located in Kolwezi
in Central Shaba. It consists in the development of two open pit mines on
the Dikuluwe and Mashamba deposits near Kolwezi and the installation or ex-
pansion of treatment facilities -- i.e., concentrator, smelter and refinery --
necessary for the annual production of 120,000 tons of electro-refined copper
(99.95 percent) and 4,000 tons of cobalt as copper-cobalt alloy. The proposed
mining equipment is the same as presently used by Gecamines in its open pits.
The concentrator is similar to those already in use by Gecamines. The 100,000
ton capacity flash smelter to be constructed will be based on a process developed
by the Finnish firm Outokumpu. The copper anodes from the flash smelter will
be refined electrolytically into high grade cathode copper in a new 100,000
ton capacity refinery to be constructed. Other facilities required to achieve
the planned expansion in output are an oxygen plant; a sulphuric acid plant;
a coal gasification plant; and a lime kiln. The existing facilities at Luilu
will be modified to allow them to increase their refining capacity by 15,000
tons.



39.        The basic infrastructuire for the project already exists, but som-e
additions or modifications are required. Modifications to electrical trans-
formers and part of the transmission system, as well as expansion of the exist-
ing pumping station and construction of a water treatment plant, are includedl in
the project, as are the enlargement of the maintenance facilities, office
buildings, the telecommunications system and other facilities, such as com.-
pressed air and fuel storage. The project calls for considerable investments
in Koiwezi's social infrastructure such as 350 houses for staff; 2,000 houses
and auxiliary infrastructure for workers; community facilities (schools, recreation
complexes); and the rehabilitation and modernization of the Kolwezi hospit.als.
In addition, Gecamines will upgrade the water supply and sanitary installa'.-ion
in the settlements adjacent to the construction site, where most of the con-
struction workers will live. Gecamines will be responsible for the enginesi-ing,
design and construction of all the industrial and social infrastructure.
40.        A project management team has been created which is headed
by an experienced engineer who was in charge of the successful implementatior.
of the Company' s First Expansion Program. Gecamines can also rely on continuing
technical assistance from the Societe Generale des Minerais (SGM). The 197b
agreements commit SGM to provide (i) purchasing services; (ii) recruitmern of
foreign personnel; and (iii) studies and engineering relating to Gecamines'
activities. Gecamines' operating performance has been very successful, and
since nationalization, the Company has increased its copper production level
by 44percent.- The project would be completed June 30, 1978.
41.        Financing:  The total project cost is estimated at US $435 million,
including additional working capital.   Interest and other charges during
construction (which would not be capitalized) amount to an additional US $'5
million. The total loan financing required is US $220 million. The following
table shows the principal categories of expenditure:
In US$ Millions
Local     Foreign     Total      %
Civil Construction                  71.2         22.4      93.6     21.5
Plant and Equipment                  3.2        138.2     1414.     32.4
Transport and Taxes                  7.6         13.2      20.8      4.8
Erection and Supervision            13.0         14.0      27.0      6.2
Preoperating, Engineering and
Start-up Expenses                 10.0         18.6      28.6      6.6
Physioal Contingencies, and Ex-
pected Price Increases            31.0         61.2      92.2     21.2
Working Capital                     13.8         18.0      31.8      7.3
Total Project Cost            149.8        285.6     435L.    100.0



- 12 -
The Bank and the LAFB would each finance US $100 million of project costs
and the E[B US $20 million. The LAFB loan will be denominated in Libyan
Dinars, i.e., 30 million Libyan Dinars equivalent at the present rate to
approximately US $100,700,000. All three loans would be for a term of 15
years including a grace period of four years. Both the Bank and LAFB loans
would be at an interest rate of 8 percent per annum, while the EIB loan
would bear an interest rate of 10-1/2 percent per annum. The Bank and the
LAFB would require the Company to pay a guarantee commission to the Govern-
ment of 2 percent per annum. The EIB would not have a similar requirement.
42.         At the request of the Government of Libya, it has been agreed that
the Bank, the Government of Libya acting through the LAFB, the Government of
Zaire, and Gecamines would enter into a joint agreement embodying the two
loans, the Government guarantee and providing for the mutual relations of
the Bank and the LAFB. The Bank and the LAFB loans would be disbursed con-
acrrently and in equal amounts for all categories of project expenditures.
The EIB loan will be applied entirely against selected equipment and services
for the flash smelter. As the EIB loan will cover only approximately 65
percent of its cost, the Bank and the LAFB will finance the balance in
equal amounts. Disbursements for the flash smelter would be made ratably by
the three co-lenders.
43.         Gecamines would finance the balance of the project cost, about
US $215 million, and would also cover interest during construction of about
US $25 million, out of self-generated funds. The financial projections
indicate that the company will be able to provide internally for the required
amount of cash. Funds equivalent to US $180 million generated during the
high copper prices of 1973-74 have been accumulated by Gecamines or invested
in the project during 1974. The Government has granted Gecamines tax exem-
ptions under the Investment Code to help it finance the project. To ensure
project completion under arn eventuality, the Government has given a cost
overrun guarantee.
44.         Procurement and Disbursement:  The proposed Bank loan of US $100
million equivalent and the LAFB loan are intended to contribute towards the
inancing of (i) 10 plant units including engineering, equipment supply and
installation, building erection, and supervision; (ii) selected equipment and
engineering, erection and supervision services for the flash smelter plant;
(iii) the foundations of the above 11 plants; and (iv) the c.i.f. cost of
miscellaneous equipment.
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(in US $ Millions)
IBRD       LAFB       EIB       Total
1.   10 Plant Units             72.39      72.39        -       144.78
2.   Flash Smelter               6.22       6.22      20.00       32.l4
3.   Plant Founiations          15.62      15.62        -         31.24
4.   Miscellaneous
Equipment                 5.77       5.77       -         11.54
TOTAL Loan Amounts        100.00     100.00      20.00      220.00



- 13 -
45.      All loan-financed items, including the flash smelter, but ex-
cluding some miscellaneous standardized equipment, valued at US $3
million and required for reasons of compatability with existing plant,
would be procured through international competitive bidding, following
preaualification of bidders. The loan-financed miscellaneous equipment
wouid be procured in 22 packages. Due to the complex nature of the plant
units, none of the unit contractors would be Zairian and all of the mis-
cellaneous equipment to be financed by the Bank would be imported;
therefore, no preference is provided for local suppliers. The total
foreign exchange cost of the project, US $285 million, substantially
exceeds the external financing provided, US $220 million. About 10
percent of the proposed Bank loan (and the LAFB loan) would actually be
disbursed against expenditures in local currency such as transport and
erection of imported equipment.
h6.         Between December 15, 1974 and the eventual signing of the Loan
Agreement the Borrower is expected to make downpayments on equipment contracts
and engineering services approved by the Bank and made in accordance with
its procedures. It is proposed that the Bank and the LAFB finance up to
US $3 million each of such expenditures from their loans. The LAFB has
agreed to do so.
L7.         Financial Analysis:  The Company's financial performance has
been satisfactory despite wide fluctuations in copper prices. Copper sales
increased by nearly 70,000 tons between 1969 and 1972, but sales revenues
dropped by 9 percent from US $564 million in 1969 to US $518 million in 1972,
but then nearly doubled in 1973 on account of the increase in copper prices
vwhich continued to rise up to mid-1974. Recently, copper prices have been
somewhat depressed in comparison. Gecamines is regarded as one of the lowest
cost copper producers in the world and even in 1972, a year of low copper
prices, direct production costs amounted to only 35 percent of gross sales
and 48 percent of net sales.
h8.      The Company's long-term debt service coverage is good, illustrating
the Company's relative independence from outside financing sources and
its creditworthiness even in case of a substantial drop in copper prices.
The debt/equity ratio will reach its peak of 20:80 in 1977-78 and decline
thereafter. Gecamines should be able to embark on further investment
programs by the end of this decade. The Company's current ratio is in
the range of 3.9:1. To ensure Gecamines' sound financial structure in
tne future, the 2 ompany has agreed to maintain at all times a debt equity
ratio better than 40:60 and a quick ratio of 1.3 :1 (the ratio of
current assets less inventory to current liabilities). Furthermore,
Gecamines would not distribute dividends unless full provision is made
for the investment needs of the expansion and replacement programs. in
addition, Gecamines has agreed that it will not, without the
bank's approval, make investments during the construction period (other
than for the expansion project and normal replacements) in any one year
exceeding US $10 million and will not contract any long-term debts
in any year exceeding US $7 million; nor will it contract, after project
completion and until the loans are repaid, any long-term debts in any year
exceeding US $25 million without consulting the Bank. (Sections 17.06
to 17.10 of the draft Agreement).



- 14 -
49.       It is a condition of the Bank loan that it would not become
effective until adequate supplies of power are assured for the period
1975-1978 (Section 5.01(g). This is necessary to assure that the Company
will be able to generate sufficient profits to complete the financing of
the project. The import of power from Zambia is assured for 1975 and
power from this source should also be available in 1977. For 1976
appropriate arrangements can be made with the National Electricity Co.
which could take internal measures to reallocate the electrical supply
among its consumers. Gecamines could also divert power from zinc refining
to copper production without significant loss to its profitability. The
Inga-Shaba power line will be completed by 1978 and will assure Gecamines
adequate domestic power.
50.       Loan Service and Repayment:   The Government would guarantee the
loans to Gecamines. The Company has also agreed (Section 17.04 of the draft
Agreement) to establish a trust fund in an independent, commercial bank
outside Zaire, acceptable to the Bank, to service the debts to the three
colenders and that these arrangements will not be changed without their
consent. The Government will assure the establishment of these arrange-
ments (Section 21.06 of the draft Agreement) and the Banque de Zaire would
grant all necessary foreign exchange permits. The trust account would be
established and replenished with the Company's receipts from foreign sales.
The fund would contain at all times half of the next semi-annual debt ser-
vice payment due to the co-lenders and Gecamines' sales agents, acting
under irrevocable instructions, would replenish it by monthly allocations
equivalent to 1/6 of the aggregate of such debt service payment. The
Government and the Bank of Zaire would guarantee a series of promissory
notes equivalent to the debt service payments, issued by the Company and
its marketing affiliate SOZACOM. These notes would be deposited with the
trustee bank and could be called to replenish the trust account in case
it lacked sufficient funds for the next following debt service payment.
The establishment of these arrangements in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank is a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section 5.01(c) of the
draft Agreement).
51.       Markets  Traditionally, Gecamines' production has gone to Con-
tinental Europe, e.g., nearly 93 percent of the Company's 1974 copper sales.
About 48 percent of its copper output is refined by SGM in Belgium.
Gecamines has a strong market position as a reliable deliverer of copper
and should encounter no difficulties in marketing the output of the project.
In 1973, Zaire accounted for 60 percent of the world cobalt production
and was the market leader. Consumption was concentrated in a few highly
industrialized countries. Gecamines' dominance and price leadership in
cobalt is not, however, expected to last as other sources of cobalt start
production in the early 1980's.
52.       SGM has been the exclusive sales agent for Gecamines products.
The Government of Zaire, with the technical cooperation of SGM is, however,
planning to transfer SGM's exclusive marketing rights for Gecamines products
to a newly established Zairian-owned marketing company -- "Societe Zairoise
de Commercialisation des Minerais" (SOZACOM). March 31, 1976 has been
set as the transfer date, but SST is committed to market Gecamines' output



- 15 -
after that date if SOZACOM so requests.  In order to assure that no dis-
ruption takes place in the marketing of Gecamines production, the Govern-
ment has agreed to provide the Bank by April 30, 1975 with evidence that the
transfer of responsibility to SOZACOK by the date set has been planned in
an acceptable manner and thereafter to assure that SOZACOM will execute its
responsibilities satisfactorily (Section 21.05 of the draft Agreement).
53.       Justification: The Company plays a major role in the Zairian
economy, accounting in 1973 for 55 percent of the country's tax revenues and
48 percent of Zairets net foreign exchange receipts. Thus, the expansion
project, designed to increase the Company's output by 20 percent, and
create 2,000 additional jobs, will be an important factor in the country's
future economic growth. It is expected to have an economic rate of return
of 28 percent. Net foreign exchange surplus generated by the project
should average about US$160 million per year after 1979. This represents a
substantial additional source of foreign exchange for the development of other
sectors of the economy.
i4.       The project has an estimated financial rate of return of 21
percent, assuming a future copper price of US$ 0.73/lb. in 1975 increasing
by 4 percent in 1976, and 5 percent thereafter, thus implying a drop in
real prices of 3-4 percent per year. These price projections are lower than
the Bank's macro-economic projections for copper used in the section of this
report on the Economy; they were used for the project to assure its economic
and financial viability under more conservative assumptions. It is also
expected that Gecamines' comparatively low production costs will make it less
susceptible to price drops than most copper producers. Projected direct opera-
ting costs of the expansion project will be 8-12 percent lower than those in the
existing installation, further improving the Companyts competitive position.
A price drop of 10-15 percent in current dollars over a long period, which
is considered unlikely, would nearly erase the Company's profits, although
it would still be able to service its debts and undertake the necessary
replacement of operating assets. In the short term such a price drop could
affect the Company's ability to generate out of profits the amounts re-
quired for project financing; and the Government would have to grant the
company additional tax exemptions or contribute directly to the cost of
the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Agreement among the Republic of Zaire, the Libyan Arab
Republic acting through the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, the World Bank and la
Generale des Carrieres et des Mines, the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed loain are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.



- 16 -
56.        In order to take into account the special circumstances of the
joint financing with Libya, it was agreed with the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank
thatl the terms and conditions of the Libyan loan would be included with
nose of the Bank's loan in a single document. The form of the Agreement
for this project is, therefore, novel for the Bank. The substance, however,
is generally similar to that for other industrial projects. The LAFB re-
quested that a clause be inserted that the Company would establish
no preference in the repayment of any of the creditors for this project
(Section 17.08) and that penalty interest for late payment of any debt service
obligation to it be at the rate of 2 points above the London Interbank rate,or
iu percent,whichever is higher (Section 9.11). Furthermore, the Bank will
act for the LAFB in all matters affecting the administration and execution
of therrovisions of the Agreement (Section 13.02).
Covenants of interest not mentioned above are the following:
(a)  The Company has agreed to submit to the Bank for approval the designs
of the pollution-control devices for each plant and to monitor all
discharges from such facilities in order to maintain acceptable
standards (Section 15.06).
(b)  The Company will undertake measures to ensure adequate coordination
between its departments and to ensure adequate staffing, recruiting
and training(Section 16.03 and 16.0h).
(c)  The Company will submit to the Bank the plans for the construction of
new, worker housing and a schedule for their completion (Section
15.07).
(d)  The Government will take such measures as are necessary to assure
adequate personnel for the execution of the project (Section 21.0h).
93.       As special conditions to the effectiveness of the proposed Bank
loan, the Company would be required (1) to make the necessary arrangements for
the creation of a debt service account in an independent commerciaL bank
(see para so above) and (2) to enter into a contract for the supply of
adequate electric power (Section 5.01 draft Agreements and para 49 above).
59.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
Attachments                                                  President
by J.Burke Knapp
Washington D.C.
January 2, 1975



Annex I
page 1
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1973                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWIH (%. constant prices)
US$ Min.       %                      1960 -69          1969 -72         1973
GNP at Market Prices          3127.0     100.0                                         7.0            6.3
Gross Domestic Investment     720.8       23.0                       ..               13.2           260
Gross National Saving          548.8      17.5                        ..              10.5            -2.5
Current Account Balance       -172.0      -5
Exports of Goods, NFS         1380.0      14.1                       ..                9.9            15.L
Imports of Goods, NFS         1486.0      47.5                       ..               12.1            26.7
CUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1973
Value Added                 Labor Force                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ MLn.     %f                Mln.       %                  US $         %
Agriculture                   384.6       13.8              6.5      78
Industry                      983.0       35.4              *-
Services                     1409.4       50.8              ..
Unallocatea
Total/Average
2777.0    100.0                8.4                                     100.0
GOVERNNENT FINANCE
Gleneral Government                          Central Government
(Zaire 2  n)-     % of GDP                   (    Mln.)          of GDP
1972         1972      1970-72                197        197        196- 7
Current Receipts                   337.5        27.1       29.3
Current Expenditure                301.5       21j.2       256
Current Surplus                     36 0        2 9
Capital Expenditures               119.2        9.6
External Assistance                 74.2         6.0        5.1
March       March
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                19S8         97n        1972              19               15Y
TMillion 2dieoutstanding end periodTa
Money and Quasi Money                   151.9       213.0       256.7       356.6      264.6
Bank credit to Public Sector             88.5       133.9       157.8       188.8      179.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector            20.6        59.9        91.1       132.6      100.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        21.8        18.7        20.6        21.6
General Price Index (1970 - 100)         88.4       115.7       126.4       131.3      138.3      173.4
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      46.8        15.7         9.2         3.9       11.6       25.J
Bank credit to Public Sector             11.1        28.1        17.9        19.6       22.4
Bank credit to Private Sector            14.2        40.3        52.0        45.7       55.6
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
not available
not applicable



Annex I
page 2
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOW5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970-72)
197)      1972     1973                                                US $ Mln     %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          772.4     789.0    1380.0              Copper                            448.9     62.1
Imports of Goods, NFS          959.4   1031.4     1486.0              Cobalt                             49.3      6.8
Resource GaP (deficit = -)    -1870     -242.4    -106.0              Coffee                             45-5      6.3
Diamonds                           39.2       5.4
Interest Payments (net)                                               Palm & Palm Kernel Oil             32.2      4.5
Workers' Remittances          - 93.8    - 86.0     - 94.0
Other Factor Payments (net)   - 36.6    - 45.6    - 70.0
Net Transfers                   67.6      74.0      100.0             All other commodities             107.6     14.9
Balance on Current Account    *-2t9.8   -300.0      17.                    Total                        721.8    l00.0
Direct Foreign Investment       52.4      97.0      40.0            EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1973
Net MLT Borrowing:                 -        -          -
Disbursements               163.6     234.0     258.0                                                       us $ Mln
Amortization                  66.6     87.0       60.0
Subtotal                     97.0     147.0     T9'60              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             803.9
Capital Grants                   24.6     23.6       25.0             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  ..
Other Capital (net)              12.0     13.0       ..               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                _        11.2     - 34.                                         /
Increase in Reserves (+)       -64.6     - 8.2       6T0.           DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1973-
Gross Reserves (end year)      181.6     217.4      288.2
Net Reserves    (end year)     166.2     149.2      208.4             Public Debt. incl. guaranteed                7.0
,/3      /r              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                   4 222 L.2                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                       38.4      39.0      56.0
of wnich:   Petroleum       38.4      39.0      56.0
Exports                         2.2      2.6       8.0
of which:   Petroleum        2.2       2.6      8.0       IBRD/IDA LENDING, Nov. 197L4,      (Million US $):
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                     I
Outstanding & Disbursed              7.9           19.4
Frop 11/9/$3-6/28 /67 ,         Since ( )3 3.9                  Undisbursed                           0.0          54.1
US $ 1.00 =CF 1O (s0   l rae)   US $ 1.00 = .5 Zaires           Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         7.9          7375
US $ 1.00 =CF 150 (buy rate)    Zairel.OO = US $ 2
/1   Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
< After exchange rate adjustments
3 IBRD estimates.
not available
not applicable
December 31, 1974



ANNEX I
Page 3
1/
DISBURSEMENTS OF FOREIGN ASSISTANCE TO ZAIRE
(US $ MILLION)
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972     1973
Multilateral          10.6    16.9     21.6    30.5    32.2    13.3
- IDA              -       -        .7    2.1      9.8     3.8
- UN              7.1     7.9     7.0     9.4     5.4      6.8
- EEC             3.5     9.0    13.9    18.9    17.0      3.1
Bilateral             50.1    47.0    51.0     Z.      67.2      -
- USAID          19.5    14.0    12.7    11.3    10.8       -
- Belgium        21.6    23.2    27.4    31.7    35.6       -
- France          5.3     5.2     5.6     6.6    11.9       -
- Other           3.7     4.5     5.3     5.4      8.7      -
Total                 60.7    63.9     72.6    85.5    99.4
Source: Bank of Zaire, Foreign Aid Sources and Staff Estimates.
/ Including budget support, coamodity aid, scholarships and project
assistance.
2/ Not available.



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATDEENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1974)
Loan or
Credit     Fiscal                                  Amount in US$ Millions
Number     Year       Borrower     Purpose         Bank I.          Un-d-15ibursed
Prior to     Congo and    Transport       -
June 1960    Otraco        Infrastructure   91.6-'
152        1969       ZAIRE        Technical         -      6.o        0.2
Assistance &
Highway Admin-
istration
190        1970       ZAIRE        DFC I              -     5.0        0.4
255        1971       ZAIRE        River Transport   -      7.0        4.1
271        1972       ZAIRE        DFC II            -     10.0        6.0
272        1972       ZAIRE        Education          -     6.5        6.3
292        1972       ZAIRE        Highways II        -    19.0       12.7
398        1973       ZAIRE        Livestock          -      8.5        7.9
463        1974       ZAIRE        DFC III            -     10.0      10.0
TOTAL (less cancellations):         91.6   7T2'S      l 7i
- of uhich has been repaid:         83.7
TOTAL now outstanding:               7.9
Amount so1d:               54.5
of which has been repaid:  51,0      3.5
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA:Z/    4.4    72.0
TOTAL undisbursed:                          47.6       47.6
1/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium
g/ Prior to exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. SrATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                                              Amount in US$ Millions
Year     Obligor                  Type of Business Lean      Equ-ity   Total
1970      Dci6t6 Financi6re de
D6veloppement (SOFIDE)           DFC        -       0.76       0.76
Total gross commitments
less cancellations, terminations,                               _
repayments and sales:                       -       0.76       0.76
Total commitments now held by IFCs                  0.76       0.76
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 152 - Technical Assistance and Highws4 Administration; US $6 million
Credit of June 9, 1969; Closing Date:  December 31, 1975.
The project, financed jointly by a $1.6 million UNDP grant, consisted of:
(a) the provision of consultants' services for the improvement of highway administ-
ration; (b) the purchase of an emergency supply of spare parts, vehicles,
materials and maintenance equipment; and (c) emergency maintenance and
rehabilitation work. After initial delays due to lack of familiarity with
Bank Group procurement procedures, the project has progressed satisfactorily3
most of the equipment has been received and rehabilitation work is com-
pleted. There is, however, a minDr aspect of the project - the purchase
of laboratory equipment - that will be completed during 1975 and there-
fore, the Closing Date was extended a fifth time to December 31, 1975.
The balance on the credit account is approximately $250,000.
Credit 190 - DFC; US $5 million Credit of May 28, 1970; Closing Date:
April 30, 1975.
Credit 271 - DFC; US $10 million Credit of September 24, 1971: Closing
Date: December 31, 1975.
Credit 463 - Third DFC; US $10.0 million Credit of February 20, 197h;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The first line of credit to SOFIDE, made in 1970 and now fully
disbursed, enabled it to start operations on July 1, 1970, with a Bank-
seconded General Manager.
The second line of credit to SOFIDE was made one year after the
first, since SOFIDE's volume of operations was three times that forecast.
The Credit was not fully committed until December, 1973, due to the
availability to SOFIDE of other resources. A Zairian General Manager
assisted by an expatriate Senior Adviser replaced the Bank-seconded
General Manager in May, 1973.
7 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remed
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
The third line of credit to SOFIDE is expected to cover about
one-third of SOFIDE' s resource needs over the period 197h-715. SOFIDE' s
operaticns are being conducted in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Credit 255 - River Transport; US $7 million Credit of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date: September 30, 197.
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of: (a)
rehabilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment in
the Zaire River estuary; (b) improvement of navigation on the Kinshasa-
nfebo waterway; (c) rehabilitation of the ONATRa river fleet; (d) pro-
vision of experts to fill key positions in ONATRA, RVM and RVF; and (e)
a feasibility study for the Voie Nationale, the combination of rail/river
links between the mining areas of 'haba and Zairian seaports.   The river
agencies have been set up as autonomous public entities, and all contracts
for goods and services under the Credit have been awarded Success has
so far been limited by delays in procurement, and by the difficulties
of recruiting technicaL assistance of the right caliber. However, progress
in implementing the project has improved recently and we are confident
that the main objectives of the project will be reached soon. The original
Closing Date, December 31, 1973 was extended to F'September 30, 1975.
Credit 272 - Education; US $6.5 million Credit of December 17, 1971;
Closing Date: April 31, 1977.
The project, designed to meet priority needs for improvement and
expansion of teacher training anld technical education, consists of: (a)
rehabilitation and equipment for an upper secondary teacher training
college, a college for primary teacher trainers and four technical secondary
schools; (b) construction and equipment of a new demonstration secondary
school and a new technical teacher training college; and (c) technical
assistance for a management study of the Department of National Education.
The execution of the project has been siow and there is a delay of about
one year in its implementation caused by the slow recruitment of con-
sultants. Also, it has become apparent that substantial cost-overruns are
tc be expected. These problems relate to some aspects of project design
and to the weak administrative capacity of the borrower. We are following
these matters closely with the authorities aid we hope that as a result
no further delays will affect the project.
Credit 292 - Second Highways; US $19 million Credit of March 28   1972;
Closing Date:  June  0, 1975.
The project, based on studies financed jointly by IDA and the
UNDP under the first highway project, was intended to: (a) implement
the reorganization of highway management, by providing 47 experts for two
and one half years to occupy executive positions at all levels of the newly
created bureau of Roads, (b) assist the bureau of Roads to rehabilitate
1,600 km of high priority roads and improve hignway maintenance; and (c)
finance pre-investment studies for a third highway project. The project
is jointly financed by IDA, UNDP, CIDa, FAO, USAID and the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Implementation of this project has been poor: it is now clear that its
execution was too dependent upon consultants and this was compounded by
delays in the delivery of equipment financed by bilateral aid. Con-
sequently expensive foreign technicians were idle during a prolonged
period and under these circumstances it was difficult to press for
improved performance on the part of the authorities. These problems,
however, are well on the way to resolution.
Credit 39& - Livestock Developme t; U$ $8.5 million Credit of June 21,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 19795 -
This project is intended to develop three large government ranches
in the Shaba Region and help establish a National Livestock Development
Authority. The project also provides substantial assistance (US $1.3 million)
for the preparation of future agricultural projects. The consultants
for implementation of the project are in place and, except for a recent
report of high cattle mortality rates on one of the ranches, progress appears
normal.



ANNEX III
Page 1
ZAIRE - MINING EXPANSION PROJECT
LOAN AND FROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           La Gen6rale des Carri6res et des Mines (G6camines).
Amount:             US $100 million equivalent.
Terms:              Four years grace and repayment in eleven years be-
ginning June 1, 1979, and ending December 1, 1989,
with an interest rate of 8 percent per annum, a com-
mitment charge of 3/4 of 1 percent per annum, and a
guarantee fee of 2 percent per annum payable to the
Government.
Co-Lenders:         Libyan Arab Republic acting through the Libyan Arab
Foreign Bank (IAFB) and European Investment Bank
(EIB). The LAFB loan is in an amount approximately equivalent to
the Bank loan, i.e., 30 million Libyan Dinars
(US $100,700,000) and will be on virtually identical
terms. A joint financing agreement will provide
for both loans. The EIB loan is for US $20 million
equivalent and will be made on terms similar to the
Bank-LAFB loans but at an interest rate of 10 1/2 percent
per annum.
Brief Description:  Expansion of the Company's copper and cobalt pro-
duction facilities by 120,000 and 4,O0O tons
per annum respectively by the opening of two open
pit mines; construction of metallurgical and ancillary
facilities; expansion of the industrial and adminis-
trative infrastructure and construction of horlsing
and social facilities for Company employees.
Cost of Project:
In US $ Millions
Local      Foreign      Total
Civil Construction               T71.2        22.4        93.6
Plant and Equipment                3.2       138.2       141.4
Transport and Taxes                7.6        13.2        20.8
Erection and Supervision          13.0        14.0        27.0
Preparation, Engineering, and
Start-up Expenses               10.0        18.6        28.6
Physical Contingencies and Ex-
pected Price Increases          31.0        61.9        92.2
Working Capital                   13.8        18.0        31.8
Total Project Cost       I21.6-               435-4



ANNEX III
Page 2
(in US$ millions)
Disbursement Schedule:                   1975     1976     1977     1978
_~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                r- ".   ;RS.
Procurement Arrangementvs     Procurement will be on the basis of the
Bank's guidelines for international com-
petitive bidding, except for about US $3
million of standardized equipment which
will be purchased for its coqat Jity
with existing facilities.
Consultants:                  The Compagnie des Ehtreprises (CFE) prepared
the bidding documents and will supervise
bid evaluation.
Financial Rate of Return:     21 percent.
Economic Rate of Return:      26 percent
Appraisal Report:             Report entitled "Appraisal of Gecamines
Expansion Project, Zaire" (No. 576-CK, dated
December 26, 1974) is being distributed
separately.






I                                    \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTRAL- AFRCAN REPUBLIC --
T. L~bdi  2~             oM,~   7-                      2?8  T0 P..'e,o                  1   / -
CAMEROON   )G`o.o-  -~~"
KASENG     AO
'(  *t'\,iJ~~~k  CC.. ~ ZA I RE  Kmdo0  '
41! -                                     Mbim~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.qsAyi
............    lke                                                  ~~~~~~~ ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANGO'LA  AREA O MAP
M-d. ~~     ~       ~       ~      ~      1
lo.g.e ~ HAAC0-  o
ZAMBIA Cv. (~~ojOMBE
COPPER t CNESIN IMT 
QECAMINES LIMITOFPTE AB CXPAERBILT
0  CITIES AND TOWNS UMIT OP THE' ZAMBIAN COPPERBELT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ kol
-  .   IN~TERNATIFONALTYP BEOUNAIES. 
ZAM81A Cu, (Co.)- (UJI                                                           )    I 
KILMEERS.Ss?To aiab
VEIN  TYPbEd DEPhonontisnepdolstr7                      1'' 7S'
....... C PE  CCN EnSItN  endLIMInTS o  eeeleb  h                  ot~k 
26  It'nrld Bank mid Ito offibstew  '   '   27  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~TWE- 



