7.r- 2
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1090 ZR
Agreement
Relating to Joint Financing
of a
Mining Expansion Project
AMONG
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
AND
THE LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC
acting through
THE LIBYAN ARAB FOREIGN BANK
D
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES (GECAMINES)
DATED MARCH 8, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1090 ZR
Agreement
Relating to Joint Financing
of a
Mining Expansion Project
AMONG
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
AND
THE LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC
acting through
THE LIBYAN ARAB FOREIGN BANK
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET DES MINES (GECAMINES)
DATED MARCH 8, 197..


﻿AGREEMENT
Relating to Joint Financing of a
Mining Expansion Project
Contents
Page
Preamble................................... .  . . . . . . 3
CHAPTER A - THE WORLD BANK'S LOAN AGREEMENT..........3
Article I - Parties.....*,.,.*.,.*.*.,.......................3
Article II - General Conditions; Definitions. ..................4
Article III - The World Bank's Loan..............................5
Article IV - Remedies of the World Bank. ...................6
Article V - Effectiveness; Termination. .....................'7
Article VI  -Addresses..............................8
CHAPTER B - THE LIBYAN LOAN AGREEMENT.    ................8
Article VII - Parties. ................................8
Article VIII - General Conditions; Definitions................... 9
Article IX  The Libyan Loan. .........................10
Article X- Remedies of the Libyan Bank ..................11
Article XI - Effectiveness; Termination ...................12
Article XII  -  Addresses ................................12
CHAPTER C - MATTERS OF MUTUAL INTEREST................. 13
Article XIII - Parties; Representative of the Libyan Bank. ............ 13
Article XIV  -  Disbursements  .........................13
Article XV -  Execution of the Project  .......   .. .. . . . . . . .  15
Article XVI - Management and Operations of the Borrower ......... 16
Article XVII  -  Financial Covenants...........................17
Article XVIII - Cooperation and Information.................. 21
CHAPTER D - THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT     .................. 22
Article XIX - Parties; Rreaotb.............................. 22
Article XX  General Conditions .........................22
Article XXI - Guarantee of the Republic of Zaire
Provision of Funds ovenn .......................... 22
Article XXII - Representative; Address Inorao ................... 25
CHAPTER E - EFFECTIVENESS          ......................... 25
Article XXIII         ................................... 25
Schedule X  Withdrawal of Proceeds  ..................... 27
Schedule 2 - Description of the Project  ...................29
Schedule 3 - Amortization; Premiums on Prepayment. ......... 1/32
Schedule 4 - Procurement of Goods and Services .. ............ 33


﻿PREAMBLE
AGREEMENT, dated March 8, 1975, among THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
(hereinafter called the Guarantor), THE LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC acting through
the LIBYAN ARAB FOREIGN BANK (hereinafter called the Libyan Bank),
INTERNATIONAL      BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the World Bank) and LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET
DES MINES (GECAMINES) (hereinafter called the Borrower), a public corporation
of the Guarantor.
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the World Bank and the Libyan
Bank to assist in the financing of the cost of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by extending the two loans provided for in Chapters A and
B hereof (hereinafter called, respectively, the World Bank's Loan and the Libyan
Loan);
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has also contracted a loan from the European
Investment Bank (hereinafter called the ELB) guaranteed by the Guarantor,
in an amount of 16,600,000 units of account (equivalent at the date hereof to
$20,000,000) to assist in the financing of such Project (hereinafter called the EIB
Loan) on the terms and conditions set forth in a Financing Agreement dated
December 16, 1974 between the EIB and the Borrower (hereinafter called the
EIB Loan Agreement);
WHEREAS (C) the World Bank and the Libyan Bank have agreed to provide
such financing, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee certain
obligations of the Borrower and undertake certain obligations toward the World
Bank and the Libyan Bank as set forth in Chapter D of this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
CHAPTER A - THE WORLD BANK'S LOAN AGREEMENI
ARTICLE I
Parties
Section 1.01. The parties to the World Bank's Loan Agreement are the World
Bank and the Borrower.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 2.01. For the purposes of this Chapter A of this Agreement, the
parties hereto accept all the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the World Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however,
to the following modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the World Bank as so modified being hereinafter
in this Chapter called the General Conditions):
(a)   the term "World Bank" is substituted for the term "Bank" wherever
it appears in the General Conditions;
(b)   the term  "World Bank's Loan Agreement" means Chapter A of this
Agreement as well as all parts of Chapter C hereof and of the Schedules hereto
which concern relations between thp. World Bank and the Borrower, and such term
is substituted for the term "Loan Agreement" wherever it appears in the General
Conditions;
(c)   the term  "World Bank's Loan" is substituted for the term "Loan"
wherever it appears in the General Conditions;
(d)   the term  "World Bank's Loan Account" is substituted for the term
"Loan Account" wherever it appears in the General Conditions; and
(e)   the term "Guarantee Agreement" means Chapter D of this Agreement
insofar as such Chapter concerns the relations between the Guarantor and the World
Bank.
Section 2.02. Wherever used in this Chapter A and, in respect of the relations
among the Guarantor, the World Bank and the Borrower, in the remaining Chapters
and in the Schedules of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings
wherever used in this Agreement:
(a)   "diiiars" and "LD" mean such coin or currency as at the time referred
to is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in the Libyan Arab
Republic;


﻿5
(b)   "SOZACOM" means the Soci6td Zairoise de Commercialisation des
Minerais, an agency of the Guarantor established to market its mineral products;
and
(c)   "SGM" means the Soci6td G6n6rale des Minerais, a Belgian company,
and any successor thereto.
ARTICLE III
The World Bank's Loan
Section 3.01. The World Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Chapter A set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 3.02. The amount of the World Bank's Loan may be withdrawn
from the World Bank's Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the World Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
World Bank's Loan.
Section 3.03. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the World Bank's Loan shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Closing Date shall be December 30, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the World Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall pay to the World Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the World Bank's Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the World Bank's Loan withdrawn
from the World Bank's Loan Account and outstanding from time to time.


﻿6
Section 3.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
June I and December I in each year.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the World
Bank's Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall duly perform all obligations on its part
set forth in or arising under Chapter C of this Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall promptly pay to the Guarantor the
guarantee fee referred to in Section 21.07 of Chapter D of this Agreement.
Section 3.11. The obligation of the Borrower to make payments to the World
Bank pursuant to Sections 3.05 through 3.08 of this Article shall be discharged
when and to the extent such payments have been received by the World Bank
from the financial institution designated pursuant to Section 17.04 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the World Bank
Section 4.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the following
additional events are specified pursuant to Section 6.02(k) of the General
Conditions:
(i)         the right .of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated, in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(ii)        any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the World. Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by failure by the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement and (B) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿7
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the
following events are specified:
(a)   that any loan made to the Borrower for the financing of any part
of the Project shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof; or
(b)   that the Statutes of the Borrower dated September 14, 1972 as
amended by Law No. 74-011 dated July 10, 1974 shall have been amended in
a manner which might adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out
the Project or to conduct its operations according to the provisions of Section
16.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of
the General Conditions:
(a)   Any conditions precedent to the first disbursement under the EIB Loan
Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b)   the Borrower and the Societe Nationale d'ElectricitM have entered into
a supply contract satisfactory to the World Bank, and any other steps necessary
on the part of the Borrower and the Guarantor have been taken, to insure a supply
of electric power to the Borrower sufficient to maintain present production levels
until completion of the Inga-Shaba transmission line;
(c)   the arrangements referred to in Section 17.04 of Chapter C of this
Agreement have been made; and
(d)   the legal opinions or certificates submitted on behalf of the Borrower
and of the Guarantor and covering the Libyan Loan and the Guarantee thereof
are satisfactory to the Libyan Bank and to the World Bank.
Section 5.02. The date June 2, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿8
ARTICLE VI
Addresses
Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the World Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                               440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUi)
For the Borrower:
La G6n6rale des Carrieres
et des Mines
GECAMINES
Boite Postale 450
Lubumbashi
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                        Telex:
GECAMINES                               234
Lubumbashi                            Lubumbashi
CHAPTER B - THE LIBYAN LOAN AGREEMENT
ARTICLE VII
Parties
Section 7.01. The parties to the Libyan Loan Agreement are the Libyan
Bank and the Borrower.


﻿9
ARTICLE VIII
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 8.01. For the purposes of this Chapter B of this Agreement, the
parties hereto accept all the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the World Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however,
to the following modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the World Bank as so modified being hereinafter
in this Chapter called the General Conditions):
(a)   the term "Libyan Bank" is substituted for the term "Bank" wherever
it appears in the General Conditions;
(b)   the term   "Libyan Loan Agreement" means Chapter B of this
Agreement as well as all parts of Chapter C hereof and of the Schedules hereto
which concern the relations between the Libyan Bank and the Borrower, and such
term is substituted for the term  "Loan Agreement" wherever it appears in the
General Conditions;
(c)   the term "Libyan Loan" is substituted for the term "Loan" wherever
it appears in the General Conditions;
(d)   the term "Libyan Loan Account" is substituted for the term "Loan
Account" wherever it appears in the General Conditions;
(e)   the term "Guarantee Agreement" means Chapter D of this Agreement
insofar as such Chapter concerns the relations between the Guarantor and the
Libyan Bank; and
(f)   Sections 4.01 through 4.06 of the General Conditions are deleted, and
in Section 4.07(b) thereof the term "Bank" shall mean the World Bank.
Section 8.02. Wherever used in the Libyan Loan Agreement, unless the
context requires otherwise, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the terms defined in Section
2.02 of Chapter A of this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.


﻿10
ARTICLE IX
The Libyan Loan
Section 9.01. The Libyan Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Chapter B set forth or referred to, the sum of thirty million
Libyan dinars (LD30,000,000).
Section 9.02. The amount of the Libyan Loan may be withdrawn from the
Libyan Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time and in accordance
with Section 14.01 of Chapter C hereof, for expenditures -  e (or, if the Libyan
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasor .e cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Libyan Loan.
Section 9.03. The Borrower shall pay to the Libyan Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Libyan Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 9.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Libyan Bank interest at the
rate of eight per cent (8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Libyan
Loan withdrawn from the Libyan Loan Account and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 9.05. The Borrower shall repay to the Libyan Bank in dinars the
principal amount of the Libyan Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 9.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in dinars
semi-annually on the dates specified in Section 3.07 of Chapter A of this Agreement.
Section 9.07. The Borrower shall duly perform all obligations on its part
set forth in or arising under Chapter C of this Agreement.
Section 9.08. The Closing Date shall be the date specified in or pursuant
to Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
Section 9.09. The Borrower shall promptly pay to the Guarantor the
guarantee fee referred to in Section 21.07 of Chapter D of this Agreement.
Section 9.10. The obligation of the Borrower to make payments to the
Libyan Bank pursuant to Sections 9.03 through 9.06 of this Article shall be


﻿11
discharged when and to the extent such payments have been received by the Libyan
Bank directly from the financial institution designated pursuant to Section 17.04
of this Agreement.
Section 9.11. In the event the Libyan Bank shall not have received on the
date due any payment of principal, interest or other charges hereunder, there shall
accrue from such date and be payable by the Borrower to the Libyan Bank in
lieu of any interest otherwise due under Section 9.04 hereof, penalty interest on
the amount overdue at a rate per annum equal to the London Interbank Rate
plus 2 percentage points or at the rate of 10% per annum, whichever is greater.
Section 9.12. All payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower or the
Guarantor to the Libyan Bank pursuant to Sections 9.03 through 9.06 of this
Article IX shall be made in dinars, which shall be purchaseable from the Central
Bank of Libya at the official buying rate applicable on the date of purchase, in
dinars for currencies widely used for international transactions, as published by
the Central Bank of Libya.
ARTICLE X
Remedies of the Libyan Bank
Section 10.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the following
additional events are specified pursuant to Section 6.02(k) of the General
Conditions:
(i)        the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancJled or terminated, in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terns of the agreement providing therefor, or
(ii)       any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Libyan Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by failure by the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement and (B) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 10.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the
following events are specified:


﻿12
(a)  that any loan made to the Borrower for the financing of any part
of the Project shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof; or
(b)   that the Statutes of the Borrower dated September 14, 1972 as
amended by Law No. 74-011 dated July 10, 1974 shall have been amended in
a manner which might adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out
the Project or to conduct its operations according to the provisions of Section
16.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 11.01. The Libyan Loan Agreement shall be subject to the same
conditions of effectiveness as are set forth or referred to in the World Bank's Loan
Agreement.
Section 11.02. The date specified in Section 5.02 of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE XII
Addresses
Section 12.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Libyan Bank:
Libyan Arab Foreign Bank
P.O. Box 2542
Tripoli
Libyan Arab Republic
Cable address: ,                       Telex:     (via Rome)
FOREBANK                                    62068
Tripoli, Libya                              62242


﻿13
For the Borrower:
La G6n6rale des Carrieres
et des Mines
GECAMINES
Boite Postale 450
Lubumbashi
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                         Telex:
GECAMINES                                      234
Lubumbashi                                   Lubumbashi
CHAPTER C - MATTERS OF MUTUAL INTEREST
ARTICLE XIII
Parties; Representative of the
Libyan Bank
Section 13.01. The parties to this Chapter C are the Guarantor, the Libyan
Bank, the World Bank and the Borrower.
Section 13.02. The World Bank shall represent the Libyan Bank in all matters
relating to the administration and implementation of, including amendments to,
this Agreement, and the Borrower shall be entitled to consider any action by the
World Bank hereunder as being the action of the Libyan Bank; provided, however,
that the World Bank will not, without the written consent of the Libyan Bank,
give any waiver, or consent to any modification, which would vary the obligations
of the Borrower or the Guarantor to pay on the date or dates due pursuant to
this Agreement, the principal amount (including premium if any) of the Libyan
Loan and the interest thereon at the rate per annum set forth herein. The World
Bank will exercise the same care in the administration and enforcement of the
Libyan Loan as it exercises with respect to loans and parts of loans which are
for its own account, and the World Bank shall have no further responsibility to
the Libyan Bank in respect thereof.
ARTICLE XIV
Disbursements
Section 14.01. It is the intention of the parties that the proceeds of the
World Bank's Loan and of the Libyan Loan be disbursed from the World Bank's


﻿14
Loan Account and from the Libyan Loan Account concurrently and pro rata. To
that end:
(a)  all applications by the Borrower for withdrawals from such Accounts
shall be submitted to the World Bank, and each such application shall be deemed
by the World Bank to be a request under Sections 3.02 and 9.02 of this Agreement
for the withdrawal of amounts of proceeds of the World Bank's Loan and of the
Libyan Loan, such that one half of the expenditures to be financed by such
withdrawal is financed out of the proceeds of the World Bank's Loan and the
other half thereof, out of the Libyan Loan.
(b)  When the World Bank shall have approved an application for
withdrawal under paragraph (a) of this Section, the World Bank shall:
(i)        promptly disburse from the World Bank's Loan Account one
half of the total amount so approved, in accordance with the
World Bank's Loan Agreement; and
(ii)       concurrently notify the Libyan Bank of such approval and
disbursement, specifying the currency, the payee and the total
amount so approved.
(c)  Upon receipt of such notice, the Libyan Bank shall, subject to the
rights of suspension and cancellation of the Libyan Loan set forth in the Libyan
Loan Agreement, disburse the amount of dinars from the Libyan Loan Account
required to pay to the payee specified in such notice the remaining one half of
the total amount so approved, in the currency so specified.
(d)  Following each such disbursement by the Libyan Bank, the Libyan
Bank shall promptly notify the World Bank of the amount of dinars so disbursed
and the date of the disbursement thereof.
(e)  The World Bank shall keep the Libyan Bank regularly informed of
its forecasts of future disbursements.
Section 14.02. The Libyan Bank shall make such arrangements with the
Central Bank of Libya, Tripoli, as shall be necessary to ensure the prompt
availability of the currencies required for disbursement of the proceeds of the
Libyan Loan.
Section 14.03. In the event that because of changes in exchange rates or
for any other reason there remains prior to the Closing Date an undisbursed amount


﻿15
in the Libyan Loan Account or in the World Bank's Loan Account when one
of such Accounts is exhausted, the undisbursed amount remaining in the other
such Account shali remain available for continued disbursement.
ARTICLE XV
Execution of the Project
Section 15.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices.
Section 15.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the supervision and
coordination of the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and
maintain a Project Management Unit with personnel whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
World Bank and to the Libyan Bank.
Section 15.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the World Bank and to the Libyan Bank and upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to them.
Section 15.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the loans provided for herein against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the World Bank and the Libyan Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the loans provided for herein to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 15.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the World Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the World Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the loans provided for herein, and to


﻿16
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the World Bank's and the Libyan
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of such loans and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the World Bank and
the Libyan Bank all such other information as they shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of such loans and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the World Bank's and the Libyan Bank's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and documents.
Section 15.06. (a) The Borrower shall submit to the World Bank for its
approval during the stage of detailed engineering of the Project the proposed designs
for pollution-control devices for the facilities included in the Project.
(b)   Following the start of production from the facilities included in the
Project, the Borrower shall monitor the discharges from such facii1ties for pollutants
and take such corrective measures as may be necessary to maintain acceptable
standards.
Section 15.07. The Borrower shall choose the sites for all the workers' houses
to be constructed under Part D of the Project and shall submit to the World Bank
and the Libyan Bank by April 30, 1975 a schedule of implementation of such
construction satisfactory to the World Bank and the Libyan Bank.
ARTICLE XVI
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 16.01. The Borrower shall operate its mining and processing facilities,
including those financed hereunder, and shall conduct its other operations and
manage its affairs, in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical
and commercial practices under qualified and experienced management and staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 16.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate commercial practices.
Section 16.03. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 16.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary to ensure


﻿17
adequate coordination between its departments, especially between the Finance
and Production Departments, and shall ensure the adequate staffing of its Finance
Department.
Section 16.04. The Borrower shall, prior to the end of 1975, furnish to
the World Bank and to the Libyan Bank for its comments an organizational chart
for the new installations included in the Project and a detailed staffing, recruiting
and training plan for the operation thereof.
ARTICLE XVH
Financial Covenants
Section 17.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 17.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the World
Bank and to the Libyan Bank; (ii) furnish to the World Bank and to the Libyan
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the World Bank and the Libyan Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the World Bank and to the Libyan Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Borrower and the audit thereof as the World Bank or the Libyan Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 17.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt except as otherwise
currently reported to the World Bank or stated to it and to the Libyan Bank
in writing.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the World Bank in respect
of the World Bank's Loan, or the Libyan Bank in respect of the Libyan Loan,
shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any of its assets
as security for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the loans provided for in
Chapters A and B of this Agreement, and in the creation of any such lien express


﻿18
provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the World Bank or to the
Libyan Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the
World Bank or to the Libyan Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the World
Bank and to the Libyan Bank in respect of their respective loans, to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, such loans; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 17.04. The Borrower shall make and maintain arrangements,
satisfactory to the World Bank, the Libyan Bank and the EIB, for setting aside
in an independent financial institution portions of the proceeds of export sales
of its products, as received or credited to or for the benefit of the Borrower,
SOZACOM, SGM, the Bank of Zaire or otherwise, for the payment when due
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the loans provided for in
this Agreement and the EIB Loan. Such arrangements shall not be modified or
terminated without the prior approval of the World Bank, the Libyan Bank and
the EIB, and the Borrower shall not permit or consent to be taken any action
which could or might prevent or interfere with the implementation of such
arrangements or the payment in full from proceeds so set aside, of such principal
of, and interest and other charges, including without limitation any action which
would result in the amounts, so set aside from time to time being insufficient
to so pay such principal, interest and other charges when due.
Section 17.05. The Borrower shall submit to the World Bank and the Libyan
Bank by June 30, 1975 or by such later date as the World Bank may specify,
a study reviewing the Borrower's policy on the depreciation of assets in the light
of the legal requirements of the Guarantor applicable to allowances for such
depreciation and of recent inflationary cost increases.
Section 17.06. (a) Except as the World Bank and the Libyan Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if such debt would raise
the Borrower's debt-equity ratio above 40:60.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower, including debt
for the service of which the Borrower is responsible, maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.


﻿19
(ii)       Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt.
(iii)       The term  "equity" means the total capital and surplus of the
Borrower, determined in accordance with sound accounting
practices.
(iv)        The term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes the
guarantee of any debt and any modification of the terms of
payment of debt.
(v)         Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the
Borrower for the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 17.07. (a) Except as the World Bank and the Libyan Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current assets less inventory
to current liabilities of not less than 1.3 to 1.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The term "current assets less inventory" includes cash, accounts
receivable due within twelve months, prepaid expenses properly
chargeable to operating expenses within the next twelve months
and all other assets which could, in the ordinary course of
business, be converted within twelve months into cash, excluding
inventories.
(ii)       The term "current liabilities" includes accounts payable within
twelve months, customer advances, income taxes, bonuses and
all other liabilities (including debt) which will be due and
payable, or could be called for payment, within twelve months.
Section 17.08. (a) All obligations of the Borrower hereunder to make
payments of principal, interest and other charges to the Libyan Bank and to the
World Bank, as well as to make similar payments to the EIB under the EIB Loan
Agreement, rank equally and shall be carried out by the Borrower without priority
or preference.


﻿20
(b)   If the Borrower shall prepay part, or all, of the principal amount
outstanding of the World Bank's Loan, the Libyan Loan, the EIB Loan or any
other debt of the Borrower, the Borrower shall, unless the creditor concerned shall
otherwise agree, prepay in the same proportion the Libyan Loan, the World Bank's
Loan, and the EIB Loan, as the case may be.
(c)   For the purpose of this Section the term "debt" shall have the same
meaning as under Section 17.06(b)(i) of this Agreement.
Section 17.09. Except as the World Bank and the Libyan Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not declare or pay any dividend on its share capital or
make any other distribution with respect to its share capital, unless, after such
dividend has been declared or paid or other distribution has been made, sufficient
funds would be available to the Borrower to meet the requirements set forth in
Section 17.07 of this Agreement and to meet the capital requirements necessary
for the execution of the Project.
Section 17.10. (a) The Borrower shall, (i) before undertaking any investment
for any purpose, other than the carrying out of the Project or the normal renewal
of its installations, in amounts exceeding in any one calendar year US$ 10,000,000
or the equivalent thereof, until the completion of the Project, afford the World
Bank and the Libyan Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on the proposed investment and shall not undertake such investment,
if in the opinion of the World Bank and the Libyan Bank, the execution of the
Project would thereby be adversely affected; and (ii) before incurring, guaranteeing
or assuming any indebtedness for any purpose other than the carrying out of the
Project or the normal renewal of its installations, in amounts exceeding in any
one calendar year US$7,000,000 or the equivalent thereof, until completion of
the Project, afford the World Bank and the Libyan Bank a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views with the Borrower on the proposed indebtedness and shall not
incur, guarantee or assume such indebtedness, if in the opinion of the World Bank
and the Libyan Bank, the execution of the Project would thereby be adversely
affected. Thereafter and during the life of this Agreement, the Borrower shall afford
the World Bank and the Libyan Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower before incurring, guaranteeing or assuming any indebtedness
in amounts exceeding in any one calendar year US$25,000,000 or the equivalent
thereof.
(b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Project shall
be deemed completed when there shall have been six consecutive months'
production and sales from the facilities included in the Project operating at 90%
of rated capacity.


﻿21
ARTICLE XVIII
Cooperation and Information
Section 18.01. The Borrower shall cooperate fully with 1he World Bank and
the Libyan Bank to ensure that the purposes of the World Bank's Loan and the
Libyan Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the parties shall from time to
time, at the request of any party, exchange views through their representatives
with regard to the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement,
as well as the administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower
and other matters relating to the purposes of the World Bank's Loan and the Libyan
Loan.
Section 18.02. The World Bank shall keep the Libyan Bank regularly
informed of the progress and operation of the Project and shall furnish to the
Libyan Bank such periodic reports, information and other data as shall be available
to the World Bank and necessary for the purpose.
Section 18.03. The parties shall promptly inform each other of any condition
which interferes with or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the EIB Loan, the World Bank's Loan and the Libyan Loan, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by any party of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 18.04. The World Bank and the Libyan Bank shall each:
(a)  inform the other prior to any mission of supervision of the Project,
afford the other the opportunity to participate therein and exchange views on
the results of such mission;
(b)   inform  the other of any event or circumstance which impedes or
threatens to impede the carrying out of the Project, its operation.or its financing;
(c)  inform the other of any notice by the Borrower of its intention to
repay in advance of maturity any part of any loan contracted for the financing
of any part of the Project;
(d)  inform, and insofar as practicable, exchange views with, the other prior
to:


﻿22
(i)        suspending in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to utilize the proceeds of the World Bank's Loan or of
the Libyan Loan;
(ii)       cancelling any amount of any such loan;
(iii)      accelerating the maturity of any such loan; or
(iv)       agreeing to any substantial modification of the Project or
to the plan of financing thereof.
Section 18.05. Each party hereto shall promptly inform the others of any
event or circumstance which impedes or threatens to impede the prompt servicing
of the debts of the Borrower as set forth in Section 17.04 of this Agreement,
including any necessity or possibility that such debts be serviced from a source
other than the proceeds of export sales of the Borrower's mining products.
CHAPTER D - THE GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
ARTICLE XIX
Parties
Section 19.01. The parties to this Chapter D are the Guarantor, the Libyan
Bank and the World Bank.
ARTICLE XX
General Conditions
Section 20.01. For the purposes of this Chapter D of this Agreement, the
parties hereto accept all the provisions of the General Conditions as defined in
Section 8.01 of Article VIII of Chapter B of this Agreement in the case of the
Libyan Loan, and as defined in Section 2.01 of Chapter A of this Agreement
in the case of the World Bank's Loan, with the same force and effect as if they
w, re fully set forth herein (said General Conditions as so defined being hereafter
in this Chapter D called the General Conditions).
ARTICLE XXI
Guarantee of the Republic of Zaire;
Provision of Funds
Section 21.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations tinder this Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees,


﻿23
as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the World Bank's Loan and
the Libyan Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of such loans,
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all
as set forth in this Agreement.
Section 21.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 21.01 above, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project,
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the World Bank and the Libyan Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 21.03. (a) It is the policy of the World Bank, in making loans to,
or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special
security from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt
shall have priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. The
Libyan Bank shall apply the same policy in respect of the Libyan Loan. To that
end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as
security for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the World Bank in respect
of its Loan, or the Libyan Bank in respect of the Libyan Loan shall otherwise
agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the World Bank or to the Libyan Bank, equally
and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, such loans,
and the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly, and at no cost to the World Bank or to the Libyan Bank, secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, such loans by an equivalent lien
on other public assets satisfactory to the World Bank and the Libyan Bank in
respect of their respective loans.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.


﻿24
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdivision thereot and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign-exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 21.04. The Guarantor shall take such steps as shall be necessary
on its part to authorize and facilitate the Borrower's hiring, without administrative
restrictions or delays, such personnel as shall be required to carry out the Project
in accordance with Section 15.01 of Chapter C of this Agreement and to hire
such experts, without regard to nationality, as shall be necessary to maintain the
efficiency and productivity of the Borrower's operations.
Section 21.05. (a) The Borrower and the Guarantor shall, by April 30, 1975,
satisfy the World Bank and the Libyan Bank as to the adequacy of the timing
for the transfer of marketing responsibilities from SGM to SOZACOM and as to
the organization, staffing and training program of SOZACOM.
(b)   The Guarantor shall cause the marketing arrangements for the
Borrower's products to be conducted at all times in accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial, technical, and commercial practices under qualified and
experienced managers and staff in adequate numbers. The Guarantor shall from
time to time exchange views with the World Bank and the Libyan Bank on the
progress of the transfer of responsibility for such marketing from SGM to
SOZACOM.
Section 21.06. The Guarantor shall take such steps as shall be necessary
or helpful on its part to authorize and facilitate the establishment, maintenance
and operation of the arrangements described in Section 17.04 of Chapter C of
this Agreement, including such arrangements by the Banque du Zaire as shall be
necessary for the purpose.
Section 21.07. The Guarantor shall charge and collect from the Borrower
guarantee fees calculated at the rate of 2% per annum on the amounts outstanding
from time to time of the Libyan Loan and of the World Bank's Loan. Such fees
shall accrue from the respective dates on which amounts of such loans shall be
withdrawn from the Libyan Loan Account and from the World Bank's Loan
Account, respectively.
Section 21.08. The Guarantor shall ensure that the Statutes of the Borrower
dated September 14, 1972 as amended by Law No. 74-011 dated July 10, 1974


﻿25
not be amended in any manner which might adversely affect the ability of the
Borrower to carry out and operate the Project or to conduct its operations according
to the provisions of Section 16.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXII
Representative; Address
Section 22.01. The Commissaire d'Etat responsible for finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 22.02. The following address is specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
D6partement des Finances
Bofte Postale No. 10
Kinshasa, Gombe
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                         Telex:
DENFIN                                 292
Kinshasa
CHAPTER E - EFFECTIVENESS
ARTICLE XXIII
Section 23.01. This Agreement shall become effective in its entirety on the
date when the World Bank's Loan Agreement, the Libyan Loan Agreement and
the Guarantee Agreement shall have been declared effective.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿26
in their respective names in Kinshasa, Republic of Zaire, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By /s/ Bofosa w'Amb'ea Nkoso
Authorized Re!resentative
THE LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC
acting through
THE LIBYAN ARAB FOREIGN BANK
By /s/ Abdallah Saudi
Authorize- Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
LA GENERALE DES CARRIERES ET
DES MINES (GECAMINES)
By /s/ Umba Kyamitala
Authorized Representative


﻿27
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
World Bank's Loan and of the Libyan Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the loans provided for in this Agreement, the allocation of the
amounts of such loans to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
such items so to be financed in each Category:
% of
Amount of                               Expenditures
World Bank's Loan         Amount of        to be Financed
allocated             Libyan Loan      (equally from
(Expressed in            allocated     World Bank's Loan
Category         dollar equivalent)         (dinars)     and from Libyan Loan)
(1)  Concentra-        $ 32,800,000          LD 9,700,000      100% of total
ting Facili-                                              expenditures
ties
(2)  Flash Smelt-         5,000,000              1,670,000     33.3% of total
ing Plant                                                 expenditures
(3)  Refining             17,380,000             4,910,000     100% of total
Facilities                                                expenditures
(4)  Ancillary            15,900,000             4,700,000     100% of total
Production                                                expenditures
Facilities
(5)  Foundations          14,200,000             4,200,000      100% of total
expendi.4res
(6)  Miscella-             5,200,000             1,540,000     100% of foreign
neous Equip-                                              expenditures
ment
(7)  Unallocated          9.520,000              3,280,000
TOTAL        $100,000,000         LD30,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term    "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than that of the Guarantor.


﻿28
3.   The amounts of expenditures have been calculated so that no proceeds of
the World Bank's Loan or of the Libyan Loan shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of such loans,
the World Bank and the Libyan Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories 1, 2, 4 and 6 on account
of expenditures incurred before such date but after December 15, 1974 in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $6,000,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the World Bank's Loan and
the Libyan Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the World Bank and the Libyan Bank have reasonably estimated that
the amount of such loans then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the World Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of such loans which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the World Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the World Bank and the Libyan Bank shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of their loans, and the World Bank
and the Libyan Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the World Bank or the Libyan Bank under this
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such equal amounts of the World
Bank's Loan and of the Libyan Loan as in their reasonable opinion represents
in total the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of such loans.


﻿29
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the development of the Borrower's facilities located at Kolwezi
within its 18,000 km2 copper concession in the Region of Southern Shaba, by
the expansion thereof to produce 120,000 metric tons per year of refined copper
and 4,000 metric tons per year of cobalt in a copper-cobalt alloy over the estimated
forty-year life of the mines. The project consists of the following parts:
A.    MINES
Development of the Dikuluwe and Mashamba open-pit mines capable
of producing an average of 4,000,000 metric tons of ore per year. Estimates
of the mineralized material in the deposits are 17 1 million metric tons with
an average grade of 4.1% copper and 0.3% cobalt.
B.    METALLURGICAL FACILITIES
1.   Construction of a concentrating plant consisting of crushing, grinding,
flotation, and dewatering equipment to produce concentrates from
4,000,000 tons of ore per year.
2.   Construction of P flash  smelter, consisting of a concentrate drying
kiln, an Outokumpu-type flash smelting furnace, two electric anode
furnaces and casting wheels and two electric slag furnaces to produce
blister copper as anodes and a copper-cobalt alloy from 700 tons of
concentrate per day.
3.   Construction of a refinery, with a capacity of 100,000 tons of electro
grade refined copper per year, consisting essentially of an electrolytic
tank house.
4.    Modification of the existing Luilu hydrometallurgical plant, mainly
through the addition of thickeners and filters, to increase capacity to
190,000 tons of cathode copper and to permit treatment of an
increased quantity of oxide concentrates.
C.    ANCILLARY PRODUCTION FACILITIES
Construction of a 350 ton per day oxygen plant, a 300 ton per day
sulphuric acid plant, an 8,800 Nm3 per hour coal gasification plant, water


﻿30
treatment plant, a 25,000 ton per year lime kiln, and expansion of the Luena
coal mine by 80,000 tons per year and the Kakontwe limestone quarry by
25,000 tons per year.
D.    OTHER FACILITIES
1.   Expansion of workshops, railway spurs, roads, compressed air
installations, fuel storage and administrative offices; and modification
of the electrical distribution system.
2.   Construction of 2,330 houses for staff and workers, and extension
of social and community facilities such as hospitals, schools and sport
complexes in the Kolwezi area; installation of water and sanitary
services at Mwadi and Tshamudenda.
3.   The Project will be executed by      the Borrower's Engineering
Construction Department with technical assistance provided by SGM
under the Technical Assistance Agreement with the Borrower dated
April 4, 1974.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿31
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal         Payment of Principal
of Libyan Loan            of World Bank's Loan
Date Payment Due               (dinars)               (expressed in dollars)*
June 1, 1979                 875,000                       2,920,000
December 1, 1979             910,000                       3,035,000
June 1, 1980                 945,000                       3,160,000
December 1, 1980             985,000                       3,285,000
June 1, 1981                1,025,000                      3,415,000
December 1, 1981            1,065,000                      3,550,000
June 1, 1982                1,110,000                      3,695,000
December 1, 1982            1,155,000                      3,840,000
June 1, 1983                1,200,000                      3,995,000
December 1, 1983            1,245,000                      4,155,000
June 1, 1984                1,295,000                      4,320,000
December 1, 1984            1,350,000                      4,495,000
June 1, 1985                1,400,000                      4,675,000
December 1, 1985            1,460,000                      4,860,000
June 1, 1986                1,515,000                      5,055,000
December 1, 1986            1,580,000                      5,260,000
June 1, 1987                1,640,000                      5,470,000
December 1, 1987            1,705,000                      5,690,000
June 1, 1988                1,775,000                      5,915,000
December 1, 1988            1,845,000                      6,150,000
June 1, 1989                1,920,000                      6,400,000
December 1, 1989            2,000,000                      6,660,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the World Bank's Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see Section 4.02 of the General Conditions
referred to in Section 2.01 of this Agreement), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿32
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
World Bank's Loan or the Libyan Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three
years before
maturity                                      1-1/4%
More than three years
but not more
than six years
before maturity                               2-1/2%
More than six years
but not more than
eleven years
before maturity                               4-1/4%
More than eleven years
but not more than
thirteen years
before maturity                               6-1/2%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                   8%


﻿33
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the
World Bank's Loan and of the Libyan Loan
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, and in order to safeguard
the interests of the Libyan Bank as well as those of the World Bank, contracts
shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the World
Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    With respect to any contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the World Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the World Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the World Bank's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the World Bank of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the World
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award.
The World Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)  The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the World
Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)  Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the World
Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the World Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the World Bank's Loan
Account and the Libyan Loan Account in respect of any such contract.
3.   With respect to any other contract, the Borrower shall furnish to the World
Bank and the Libyan Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission


﻿34
to the World Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the World
Bank's Loan Account and the Libyan Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the World Bank shall
reasonably request. The World Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
4.    For the purpose of maintaining a reasonable standardization of its equipment,
the Borrower may, pursuant to paragraph 1.2(a) of the Guidelines, procure from
its usual suppliers without international competitive bidding, such miscellaneous
equipment included in the Project as shall be agreed to by the World Bank.


