                                                Document o f
                                            The World Bank

                                    FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                  Report No: 28994-ANG




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                           PROPOSEDGRANT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 14.1MILLION
                                   (US$21 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                     GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA

                                                   FOR A

       HIV/AIDS, MALARIA AND TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROJECT (HAMSET)

                                            November29,2004




HumanDevelopment1
CountryDepartment2
Africa Region

This document has restricted distribution andmay be usedbyrecipients only inperformanceo ftheir
official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without the World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       Exchange Rate Effective August 12,2004


                           Currency Unit = Kwanza
                            Kwanza82.7 = US$1
                               Kwanza1 = US$0.0121

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1   - December31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADRP     Angola Emergency Demobilization andReintegration Project
AIDS     AcquiredImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
APL      Adjustable Program Loan
ART      Anti-retroviral Treatment
BCC      Behavior Change Communication
CBO      Community-Based Organization
C C M    Country Coordinating Mechanism
CDC      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
CORE     Child Survival andResources Group
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CRS      Catholic Relief Services
dgMarket Development Gateway Market
DOTS     Directly-Observed Treatment
DRG      Diseases Response Group
EMRP     Emergency Multi-sector Recovery Project
E M T A  Economic Management Technical Assistance Project
EU       European Union
FAS      Social Action Fund
FBO      Faith-based Organization
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Management Report
FPMU     Financial and Procurement Management Unit
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GF       Global Fundto Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria
GNI      Gross National Income
GPN      General ProcurementNotice
HAMSET   HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis Control Project
HCWMP    Health Care Waste Management Plan
HMIS     HealthManagement Information System
HIV      HumanImmunodeficiencyVirus
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
IEC      Information, Education and Communication
IMR      Infant MortalityRate


                                           i

 ITN        Insecticide-TreatedNet                     FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY
 KAP        Knowledge,Attitude, andPractice
 LQAS        Lot Quality Assurance Sampling
 M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
 MAP        Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa
 M C H       Maternal and Child Health
 MDGs        Millennium Development Goals
 MICS        Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey
 MMR         Maternal MortalityRate
 MOD         MinistryofDefense
 MOF         MinistryofFinance
 M O H       Ministry ofHealth
 M T C T     Mother-to-Child Transmission
 NACP        National AIDS Control Program
 NAS         National AIDS Secretariat
 NCAED       National Commission against HIV/AIDSandEndemic Diseases
 NGO         Non-governmental Organization
 NID         National ImmunizationDay
 NIPH        National Institute o fPublic Health
 N T C       National Technical Committee on HIV/AIDS
 PCU         Project CoordinatingUnit
 PLWHA       PersonLivingWith HIV/AIDS
 PMTCT       Preventiono f Mother-to-Child Transmission
 PPF         Project Preparation Facility
 PSI         Population Services International
 RFP         Request for Proposals
 SA          Special Account
 SADC        Southern Afkica Development Community
 STI         Sexually-Transmitted Infection
 TA          Technical Assistance
 TB          Tuberculosis
 TSS         Transitional Support Strategy
 UN          UnitedNations
 UNFPA       UnitedNations Fundfor PopulationActivities
 UNICEF      UnitedNations Children's Fund
 UNITA       NationalUnionfor Total Independence o f Angola
 VCT         Voluntary Counseling andTesting


                              Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                            Country Director:    MichaelBaxter
                             Sector Manager:     DzingaiB.Mutumbuka
                          Task Team Leader:      Jean J. De St Antoine


This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.
                                                                          ~


                                                      ANGOLA
                        HIVIAIDS.Malaria andTB ControlProject

                                                    CONTENTS

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE .......................................................................Page                           2
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION.......................................................................................................            4
                                                                                                                                         9
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY.....................................................................................................
C. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .............................................................................
                                                                                                                                         15
Annex 1: Country and Sector Background...................................................................................                22
Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies..........................                                       27
Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring..............................................................................                   28
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description......................................................................................... 38
Annex 5: Project Costs..................................................................................................................
Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements......................................................................................                42
                                                                                                                                         43
Annex 7: Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements ............................................                                   50
Annex 8: Procurement andDisbursementArrangements.............................................................                            56
Table A: Project Costsby Procurement Arrangements...............................................................                         60
Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements............................................................................                  62
Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethods andPrior Review' ............................................                                 62
                                                                                                                                         63
Annex 9: Economic andFinancial Analysis .................................................................................
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                         64
Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues...............................................................................................
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision ...........................................................................                65
                                                                                                                                         67
Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File.....................................................................................               69
Annex 13: Statemento f Loans and Credits ..................................................................................              70
Annex 14: Country at a Glance..................................................................................................... 71
Annex 15: Supervision Plan.......................................................................................................... 73
                 . .

MAP IBRDReferenceNumber24288.........................................................................................                    75




                                                               ...
                                                               111


                                             ANGOLA

                  HIV/AIDS, MALARIA AND TB CONTROLPROJECT(HAMSET)

                                 PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                     AFRICA REGIONALOFFICE

                                              AFTH1

Date: November 23, 2004                           Team Leader: Jean J. D e St Antoine
Country Director: Michael Baxter                  Sectors: Health (80%); Other social services
Sector Manger: Dzingai B.Mutumbuka                (20%)
                                                  Themes: HealtldNutritioflopulation
Project ID: PO83180                               Environmental screening category: B
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Grant     Safeguard screening category: Limitedimpact




For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 21.O




BKATERALAGENCIES                                      4.5               10.4                14.9
Total:                                               20.8               18.8                39.6

Borrower:
Republic of Angola

ResponsibleAgency:
MinistryofHealthandNationalCommissionAgainst AIDS andEndemic Diseases




Annual               2.0            3.O        4.5           5.5            4.0             2.0
Cumulative           2.0            5.O -      9.5          15.0           19.0             21.0




                                                 1

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1.      Country and sector issues. InApril 2002, Angola (pop. 13.9 million, GNI/cap $6501)
emerged from 30 years o f war with its health system badly damaged, a maternal mortality rate
(MMR)of 1,300 per 100,000 livebirths,andaninfantmortality rate (IMR) of 154per 1,000 live
births. HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria account for 75 percent o f all deaths from infectious diseases
inAngola. Malaria is the main cause of morbidity, with 40 percent o f children dyinginthe first
five years o f life and one-fourth o f maternal mortality associated to malaria conditions. The HIV
epidemic i s spreading, with prevalence in adults aged 15 to 49 estimated to be 5.5 percent or
350,000 adults, and some studies inurban prenatal clinics have shown rates close to 10 percent.
TB incidence has increased over the past decade paralleling the HIV/AIDS epidemic. At the
macroeconomic level, these epidemics could have devastating effects on Angola's economy.
Studies have shown that an HIV/AIDS epidemic can reduce GDP by up to 1.0 percent per year.
The effect o fmalaria has been estimated to be as much as 1.3 percent GDPreductionper year'.

With a prevalence o f 5.5 percent (and possibly higher as may be shown by the December 2004
sentinel survey), the epidemic appears to be generalized. The project will combine (i)            education
and communication efforts to improve knowledge and protection o f the population, with (ii)
targeted efforts on high-risk groups such as CSW, soldiers, and truckers. Also, the government
has a clear geographical strategy for priority interventions (section C.1). The results of the
December 2004 prevalence survey will be usedto further refine the government strategy.

Government strategy. The government i s taking a number o f measures to rebuild the health
sector. An overview o f the health sector i s provided in Annex 1, and a more detailed analysis i s
available inthe Project Files. The government has provided the provinces most affected by war
with an extra budget to implement emergency programs for the period 2003-2004. The Social
Action Fund(FAS) i s helpingto rehabilitate and equip health facilities destroyed during the war.
The health component o f the proposedBank-financedEmergency Multi-sector Recovery Project
(EMRP) appraised in October 2004 includes US$8 million for rehabilitation of health
infrastructure, training o f physicians, nurses, and other health personnel, and procurement o f
essential drugs. InAugust 2003, the Ministry of Health (MOH) reintegrated UNITA health staff
(7,800). It also plans to work closely with the militaryunder the project. The Ministryo fDefense
has almost 200 doctors and five regional hospitals with surgical capabilities and a network o f
small health posts at lower levels that in some areas are the only provider o f modern health care
to the population. Its organization and technical levels are more developed than that o f the MOH.
There is a good working relationship between the M O D and the MOH. For example, inthe case
of malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB control, strategic plans were designed jointly by the two
ministries. The international community and international NGOs are helping the provincial and
municipal health authorities to provide health care services. Insix provinces, their contribution is
more than halfof the provincial health expenditure.




'TransitionalSector Strategy, March4, 2003
  The economic impact o f malaria was published by Jeffrey Sachs fromHarvard in "The Economic Burden of
Malaria", 1998.The economic impact of AIDS was presented inConfronting AIDS, the World Bank, as well as in
the economic analysis for the Multi-country HIViAIDS Program.


                                                        2

Angola's response to the AIDS epidemic i s formulated in its National Strategic Plan dated June
2003 and put together with support from major international partners and civil society. Its
response to TB andmalaria i s summarized inthe government's proposalto the Global Fund(GF)
dated March 2003. To implement this strategy, the government has requested the Bank's
financial andtechnical assistancethrough a project for HIV/AIDS,malaria, and TB control.

Borrower 's commitment. The government's commitment has been expressed through the
establishment, in early 2003, o f a National HIVIAIDSand Endemic Diseases Commission under
the Chairmanship of the President o f Angola. Following this, the government developed
strategies to fight HIVIAIDS, malaria, and TB. It approached the Bank, the GF and other donors
for financing. It has started to develop a multi-sector collaboration between line ministries, and
partnershipswith civil society and the private sector. It has also contributed with its own funds to
a number o f key investments. During 2004, the number of activities taking place accelerated.
Recent progress can be summarized as follows:

            There are now 30 Voluntary Counseling and Testing Centers (VCTs) operating
            throughout the country, compared to less than 10 six months ago. VCTs are operated
            by the MOH, the military, NGOs, and the private sector (oil and construction
            companies); VCT protocols have beendeveloped by the M O H with support from the
            Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC);

            Three reference laboratories are expected to be operational by the end o f October
            2004;

            With support from CDC and the Brazilian government, the MOH has organized the
            training o f 15 doctors in anti-retroviral treatment (ART) and 15 more (both from
            Luanda and at least one from each o f the provinces) were expected to be trained by
            November 2004; ART i s currently provided at three M O H hospitals and Clinica
            Multiperfil (a private clinic);

            Prevention o f Mother-to-Child Transmission (PMTCT) i s being provided at four
            sites;

            Nine provinces have developed HIV/AIDS prevention and control plans and nine
            more will have done so by December 2004;

            AnHIV/AIDSLaw is currently beingprepared;

            An HIV national prevalence survey is currently underway and expected to be
            completed inDecember 2004; and

            A malarianational strategy i s currently being finalized and Angola has decided to use
            the drug "coarten" for treatment to replace "amodiaquine" to which resistance has
            started to develop.




                                                 3

2.      Rationale for Bank involvement. HIV/AIDS transmission poses such a danger to
Angolan society and its economic future that it stands among the highest priorities to be
addressed inthe country. Controlling malaria and TB are also high on the country's agenda given
their effects on morbidity and mortality in the population. A number o f projects are currently
supported by other development partners but they are mainly under-funded and fragmented.
Some of the interventions are hnded only for short periods of 1-2 years and are limitedin their
field o fintervention or geographical area.

To address the funding problem, the government has approached both the Bank and the Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria (GF). The Bank responded quickly, first through the
approval o f a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) o f $600,000 that helpedprepare the project, and
second through the preparation o f the proposed US$21 million credit. While this would provide
the government with funds to scale up existing activities and to build capacity, it would not be
sufficient for five years. This i s why financing from the Global Fundwill be important. At the
present time, the GF has approved financing o fUS$27.6 million for HIV/AIDS,US$25.3 million
for malaria and US$7.3 million for TB. As o f September 2004, none o f this financing had yet
been signed. Experience from other countries shows that that there i s a significant time lag
between GF approvals and disbursement which makes the ready availability o f Bank financing
o f great importance to the government.

The Angola MAP i s within the "Three Ones" agreement of April 25, 2004 whose principles are:
(i) agreedHIV/AIDSactionframeworkthatprovidesthebasisforcoordinatingtheworkof
    one
all partners; (ii)one national AIDS coordinating authority, with a broad based multi-sector
mandate; and (iii) one agreed country-level monitoring and evaluation system.

3.       Higher level objectives to which the project contributes. The Bank's Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS) for Angola includes three pillars: (i)   enhancing transparency, efficiency
and credibility o f public resource management; (ii)    expanding service delivery to war-affected
and other vulnerable groups; and (iii)   preparing the ground for broad based pro-poor economic
growth. The TSS i s currently supported by: (i)       the Angola Emergency Demobilization and
Reintegration Project (ADRP) to help the transition of some 138,000 ex-combatants to civilian
life; (ii)an Economic Management Technical Assistance (EMTA) project to help increase
transparency inpublic resource management; and (iii)     a credit to support the FAS. The proposed
HAMSET would support the TSS by helping the government control the HIV/AIDS, malaria and
TB epidemics. The operation supports the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as follows:
Goal 6: Combat HIV, malaria, and other diseases; Goal 4: Reduce child mortality; and Goal 5:
Reduce maternal mortality. Regarding goals 4 and 5, only those aspects o f maternal and child
mortality that relate directly to combating o fHIV/AIDS, malaria and TB will be addressed under
the project.

B. PROJECTDESCFUPTION

1.       Financinginstrument. This project would be a Sector Investment Grant under IDA'S
MAP for the Africa Region and is in accordance with the Bank's regional HIV/AIDS strategy
"Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDSinAfrica: Respondingto a Development Crisis".




                                                  4

2.      Project development objective and key indicators. The project's development
objectives are to: (i)
                     reduce the spread o f HIV/AIDS inthe Angolan population through a multi-
sector approach that strengthens institutional capacity and increases access and utilization o f
health services for prevention, diagnosis, care, and support; (ii)  strengthen the capacity o f the
health sector to detect new cases o f TB, improve treatment compliance, and increase the
completion rate; and (iii) strengthen the capacity o f the M O H for effective case management o f
malaria.

Key performance indicators for the project were established for HIV/AIDS, malaria andTB, that
are the focus of the Angola HAMSET. Inlight of the expected funding o f malaria by the Global
Fund, the indicators for malaria reflect the role o f the HAMSET in funding only selected
activities that are not supported by the GF. The following set o f output and outcome measures
were designed to be realistic and attainable given the institutional capacity limitations in post-
conflict Angola. Performance will be measured annually up to the end o f 2010 (year 5 o f the
project).




 ways o fpreventing the sexual transmission o fHNand reject major                    85%
7misconceptions about HIV transmission and prevention (determined

                                                                              ~
 Tuberculosis
 Percentage o f the 59 priority municipalities implementing TB control              100%
 activities
 Percentage o f diagnosed TB patients covered by DOTS inthe 59 priority              75%
 municipalities
 Malaria
 Institutional mortality due to malaria among children under five (Malaria           15%
 Control Programrecords)

3.      Project components. The project would have an estimated cost o f about US$39.6
million. This total cost represents the overall program including on-going projects financed by
other donors (US$14.9 million), as well as additional activities to be financed under HAMSET
by the Bank (US$21.0 million) and the government (US$3.7 million). The other donors
providing $14.9 million in financing are USAID, EU, Norway, Italy, WHO, UNICEF, and
UNDP (Annex 2). All these funds have been approved and signed and most o f these programs
are already under implementation. The GF financing i s not included in the US$14.9 million
because at the time o f appraisal it had not yet been signed and depended on Angola's fulfilling a
number offiduciary requirements.

However, to avoid duplication and ensure complementarity, the activities to be financed by the
GFwere taken into account inthe designo fthe HAMSETproject.




                                                  5

The project would have four components as follows: (i) Sector Response to HIV/AIDS:
                                                          Public
US$2.6 million (of which IDA: US$2.0 m); (ii)      Health Sector Response (all three diseases):
US$12.5 million (IDA: US$7.2 m); (iii)     Community Response (all three diseases): US$19.7
million (IDA: US$7.0 m); and (iv) Multi-sector Project Coordination: US$4.8 million (IDA:
US$4.8 million). Implementation would start in provinces with the highest population,
prevalence o f HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB, presence o f partners, and ease o f access, and expand
geographically over time. Some activities such as prevention campaigns through mass media or
definition o f testing protocols would have a national coverage from the outset. The project's
results framework and proposed monitoring indicators are presented in Annex 3. A detailed
project description i s presentedinAnnex 4 and summarized below.

Component 1- Public Sector Response. This component would support a multi-sector response
from government ministries and local government agencies. The project would help: (i)      build
capacity; (ii) ministries reduce impact of HIV/AIDS, malaria and T B on ministry staff and
              line
their dependents; and (iii) ministries reduce impact o f HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB on
                              line
extemal clients (users o f their services). Priority activities within this component would be
information, education, and communication (IEC), behavior change communication (BCC),
social marketing of condoms, and access to VCT and Protection o f Mother-to-Child
Transmission (PMTCT).

Component 2 - Health Sector Response. This component would provide funding to the MOH for
the prevention andtreatment o fTB andmalaria, as well as for HIV/AIDS activities for which the
MOHi s directly responsible such as training o fMOH staff, VCT and STImanagement, PMTCT,
and treatment o f opportunistic infections.

As explained inAnnex 4, thebulk of malaria control andtreatment wouldbe financedbythe GF,
and the activities included in HAMSET were designed as a complement. For the same reasons,
antiretroviral treatment (ART) for HIV+ patients i s not included in HAMSET as explained
further.

Component 3 - Community Response. This component would provide funding and technical
assistance to civil society organizations, communities, NGOs, and faith-based organizations
(FBOs) that would present subprojects to prevent and mitigate the effects o f the three diseases.
They would cover preventive activities for HIVIAIDS focused on behavior change, particularly
among high-risk groups, social marketing o f bed nets, and community treatment o f malaria, and
support to the implementation o f DOTS for TB. Criteria used for the approval o f grants would
include potential impact, innovation, and capacity o f the organization. Eligibility criteria for
communitysubprojects are presented inAnnex 6.

Component 4 - Proiect Coordination. This component would help: (i) the establishment
                                                                        support
o f Provincial AIDS and Endemic Diseases Commissions (a national commission i s already
established); (ii)contract professionals for the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU); (ii)contract
professional services including financial and procurement management; and (iii)develop
information systems to monitor and evaluate progress incontrolling the epidemics.




                                                6

Reproductivehealth. The HAMSETproject includes activities that are directly related and will
have an impact on the health o f women in their reproductive age by: (i)       developing behavior
change and IEC interventions that will support less riskybehaviors by menand better capacity o f
womento negotiate; (ii)    reducing the risk o f vertical transmission; (iii) to reduce stigma;
                                                                           helping
and (iv) increasing the use of VCT. The project will also train health personnel in the use of
malaria prevention interventions such as intermittent presumptivetreatment for pregnant women
and the use o fbednets.

The above activities are complementary to interventions planned under the EMRP. That project
has an important component o f reproductive health that will support the training o f midwifes in
safe motherhood practices, specifically in pre-natal and delivery practices that will reduce the
risk o f HN transmission. The EMRP will also improve access to drugs and better equipped
health facilities, with the aim of reducing maternal deaths.

Anti-retroviral treatment (ART). In 2004, the government passed a law stating that: (i)
Angolan citizens have the right to ART; and (ii) will be provided in the Esperanqa day
                                                       ART
hospital. The government       i s embracing WHO'S "3 by 5" initiative and it i s expected that
between 13,000 and 17,000 HIV + persons will receive ART. Training for clinical staff to
manage the ART has begun. At the present time, there are limitations inART treatment because
a regular supply o f ART drugs i s not available. The government has also begun a pilot PMTCT
experience inLuanda with the same logistical problems.

Under financing from the GF, about 14,000 patients will benefit from ART in23 health facilities
at a total cost o f US$10 million for the drugs. In addition, medical personnel will be trained in
the management o f HIV+ patients and laboratory supplies will be acquired for the follow-up o f
patients inART. Pharmacists will be trained inmedication logistics. Consequently, no financing
o f ART i s contemplated under the HAMSET project. The latter, however, will support training
o fmedical personnel from the Ministryo f Defense incase management and use o f ART.

Blood safety. The rehabilitation and equipment o fblood banks is being financed by the EUand
this will be complemented by further investment under the proposed EMRP. The GF project
supports: (i)   the dissemination of norms and criteria for blood screening; (ii)the creation of
algorithm pamphlets to explain pre-screening tests; and (iii) training o f blood bank and
                                                                     the
transfusion teams in counseling and pre-screening o f blood donors. As a result, the only blood
safety activity included in the HAMSET project i s the development o f a logistics system for the
implementation o f the national safe bloodpolicy.

4.      Lessons learned and reflected in the project design. The experience o f supporting
MAPSin28 countries throughout Afiica has been documented in"Preparing and Implementing
MAPSupport to HIV/AIDS Country ProgramsinAfrica: The Guidelines andLessons Learned".
The lessons directly relevant to the HAMSETproject are presented below.

Political leadership and commitment. International experience has shown that political
leadership and highest-level commitment are essential in mobilizing national and donor
resources for the fight against the HIVIAIDS epidemic.




                                                   7

Multi-sectoral approach. The HIV/AIDS epidemic extends far beyond the health sector,
warranting a change in paradigm fiom a biomedical to a development one. Inthis context, the
multi-sectoral approach in HIV prevention, care and mitigation offers the best chances o f
success. The project would involve the active participation o f all sectors at all levels.

Vulnerability factors are key drivers of the epidemic. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is driven by
underlying vulnerability factors among populations. The combination of poverty, gender
disparities and information asymmetry provide fertile soil on which HIV can rapidly grow. This
project would focus on vulnerable groups, including youth, orphans, persons living with
HIV/AIDS(PLWHAs),women andwidowers inpreventionandimpact mitigation efforts.

Community participation as a process of empowerment. Communities affected by the
HIV/AIDS epidemic find themselves facing multifaceted challenges, and with limitedresources
and capacity to respond. Community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives included inthe project engage the
people in a partnership to fight the epidemic. With external resources and the building o f local
capacity, communities would be more empowered intheir response to HIV/AIDS.

The use of indigenous knowledge and practices. Indigenous knowledge and practices,
including drama, help in the efforts to fight HIV/AIDS. Local practices o f looking after
HIV/AIDS orphans in the community among foster parents, grandparents, or other relatives,
have also been used successfully in a number o f African countries. These practices would be
applied inAngola.

Complexity of supervision of MAP projects. Given the innovative MAP approach and large
number ofpartners, the supervision o fMAPprojects deserves more attention and resources than
the average projects. Supervision teams for MAP projects would be multi-sectoral and draw on
the resources o fpartners. A supervisionplan i s presented inAnnex 15.

Robust Monitoring and Evaluation. The key features o f MAP are the scaling up o f multi-
sectoral programs and effective interventions, which require robust monitoring and evaluation
systems. Sufficient resources and skills should be made available to that effect, and that would
bethe case for the HAMSET project.

Effective Donor Coordination. Effective coordination among development                      partners
significantly reduces the transaction costs for the government o f managing externally funded
programs. Common arrangements for joint program reviews, monitoring and evaluation,
planning o f financial and technical assistance, missions, funding o f programs or program
components are all areas that are being pursued in close cooperation with bilateral and
multilateral partners.

Lessons on TB and malaria. Five elements contribute to successful TB programs: (i)
government commitment; (ii) increased focus on case detection through sputum microscopy;
                               an
(iii)administration o f treatment regimens under direct observation o f drug intake; (iv) a system
o f regular drug supply; and (v) an effective monitoring system for program management and
evaluation. The Roll Back Malaria strategy i s based on: (i) detection and treatment o f
                                                                   early
malaria in the home and health facilities; (ii)   widespread use o f insecticide-treated nets; (iii)



                                                 8

prevention o f malaria in pregnant women; and (iv) rapid detection o f epidemics and response.
These lessons andprinciples would be applied inthe implementationo fthe HAMSET project.

Lessons from previous projects in Angola. One o f the main lessons learned, applied in the
design of HAMSET, i s that Bank-financed projects need to be simplified to ensure a better fit
with the government's limitedimplementationcapacity. To that effect, simpleprocedures would
be usedas much as possible, and a significant part of financial and procurement functions would
be outsourced.

5.        Alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection. The "no project" alternative is not
desirable due to the high morbidity and mortality from malaria and TB, and with AIDS
advancing rapidly into the top ten causes of death from infectious diseases. Without adequate
intervention, the AIDS epidemic in Angola can be expected to follow the same course as
neighboringcountries, with up to 30 percent of adults becoming HIVpositive.

An alternative approach would have been a project focused exclusively on HIV/AIDS. The
government, however, asked the Bank to also include malaria (for which certain activities are not
financed by the Global Fund), and TB, a disease with a high incidence that i s likely to increase
because o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Given the burdeno f these diseases, the government request
i s justified.

C. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

1.        Partnership arrangements.A number o f development partners and the private sector
(notably oil companies) are active inthe financing and implementation o f projects inthe areas of
HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria. These include a few central ministries and provincial governments,
international and bilateral agencies, national and international NGOs, faith-based organizations,
civil society organizations, and private companies. During project preparation, coordination
between partners has been undertaken through the Thematic Group on HIV/AIDS that meets
monthly, the National Commission Against AIDS and Endemic Diseases (NCAED), and the
Country Coordinating Mechanism (CCM) for the GF.

Institutional and implementation arrangements. A detailed description o f implementation
arrangements i s presented in Annex 6. Two high-level institutions have a strategic and
overseeing role in the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS, malaria, and TB. The first i s the
National Commission Against AIDS and Endemic Diseases, established in 2003 under the
Chairmanship o f the President o f Angola. Its role i s to set strategy and broadly coordinate the
implementation o f the government's multi-sector strategy. The second institution i s the Country
Coordinating Mechanism (CCM). The C C M was established in2002 to prepare the GF proposal.
It is composed o f five line ministries, eight international agencies, and seven NGOs. The current
Chairman is the Vice Minister o fHealth.

Two key institutions are essential for the implementation o f the HAMSET project: the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) and the CCM's Technical Subcommittee (TS). The day-to-day
coordination o f the project would be the responsibility o f the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU),
reporting to the Vice Minister o f Health. The P C U currently has a Director (the Director of



                                                   9

Planning o f the MOH), a Deputy Director with intemational project experience, and essential
professionals to coordinate the project. The Deputy Director i s responsible for the Community
Response component. Coordinators for the Health Sector Response component and Public Sector
component were selected in September 2004, as well as a monitoring and evaluation specialist
Professionals for IEC,capacity development as well as private sector response will be recruited
over the next 3-4 months. An Accountant was contracted in May 2004 and has beenworking on
the accounts o f the Project Preparation Facility. Office accommodations are currently being
rehabilitated and are expected to be ready by October 31, 2004. The Special Account has been
opened and signatures delegated to the Director and Deputy Director o f the PCU. The PCU has
prepared a first-year procurementplan, satisfactory to the Bank.

The Technical Subcommittee o f the C C M (TS) will approve Community Response subprojects.
The TS would have a maximum o f 10 representatives. The PCU Director and the MOH
Technical Program Directors would be permanent members. The other six members would be
from the C C M member organizations, i.e. line ministries, civil society and donors (includingUN
agencies). They would be from among the operational or technical staff o f these organizations.
The Chair o f the TS would be selected by the members for a 12 month's term. Having the TS in
place and operational with members appointed i s a condition of effectiveness.


The project will finance the services o f a Financial and Procurement Management Unit (FPMU)
through the contracting o f a firm that would provide its services to the PCU in the management
of the project accounts, conduct procurement according to Bank guidelines, prepare reports,
conduct field spot checks o f the community subproject recipients, train PCU and Ministry of
Health Staff as well as provide financial and procurement advisory service to the PCU and
MOH. The accountant, now working on the PPF, will undertake the liaison betweenthe PCUand
the FPMSJ.

Public Sector Response Component. Inmost MAPS,the public sector component has been slow
to take off. To mitigate this risk, and given the weak capacity in Angola, the following strategy
has been adopted for HAMSET. First, duringpreparation, the government and the Bank started
to motivate line ministries by informing them about the HAMSET and how they can benefit
from it. It is already clear that a number o f ministries such as the MOE, the Ministry o f Public
Administration, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and the Ministry o f Defense currently
undertake some activities inHIV/AIDS prevention and are quite interested inparticipating inthe
public sector response component under HAMSET. Inthe case o f the Ministryof Defense, given
its needs and commitment, a subcomponent o f US$800,000 was set aside for the ministry, with
detailed activities already defined. Second, the Public Sector Response coordinator o f the PCU
has been recruited. He will work with the focal points in line ministries, and will help hire
consultants, as required to help design and implementthe line ministries' action plans. Third, the
project will work closely with the provinces. These have shown to be quite responsive in a
number o f M A P projects, notably in Eritrea and Gambia. Fourth, some competition would be
introducedwhereby ministriesthat are more active would have access to additional funding.

At the provincial level, each Provincial Committee on HIV/AIDS would submit its multi-sector
programs and proposals to the PCU for approval by the Technical Subcommittee of the CCM,




                                                 10

and financing. Nine provincial programs have already been prepared with the help o f the donor
andNGO communities.

Health Sector Response Component. As regards the MOH, technical capacity exists in the
ministry, but key staff are stretched. For that reason, the PCU includes a health sector response
coordinator who will be in charge o f delivering the activities under that component. The
coordinator will work in close collaboration with the technical team in the MOH, i.e. the Heads
o f the National AIDS Control Program, Malaria program, Tuberculosis program and the
Epidemiology and Sentinel Surveillance Unit. The latter will provide technical inputs for all
health related technical activities agreed in the project, including technical specifications for
biddingdocuments.

Community Response Component. `The PCUwould contract out the community mobilization and
capacity building task to one or more eligible NGOs and CBOs. Successful NGOs and CBOs
would develop a mobilization strategy and action plan and form community level HIV/AIDS
committees. These committees would receive training in community development subproject
planning, preparation and implementation. They would identify activities and prepare subproject
proposals targeting various beneficiary groups within and around the communities. Contracted
NGO and CBOs would provide technical assistance to the committees throughout the subproject
life, and play a facilitation role between the community groups and the PCU. Guiding principles
for the community grants are presentedinAnnex 6. HAMSET will have the Deputy Coordinator
also in charge o f the community response component. The Gambia experience has shown that,
after some time, the workload became too much for one person. There are a couple o f possible
remediesto this for HAMSET. First, as the workload increases, an assistant coordinator could be
contracted, as was done in Gambia. Second, the PCU is exploring the extent to which synergy
can be built with the Social Action Fund(FAS) who could be contracted by HAMSET to handle
small community subprojects.

Geographicalimplementation. The government has selected 59 priority municipalities, for the
implementation o f HAMSET and other related programs such as the Global Fund. The 59
priority municipalities span throughout all 18 provinces o f Angola and cover 70 percent o f the
population. Luanda itself has 9 municipalities altogether comprising between 1/4 and 1/3 o f the
total population o f the country.

As regards HIV/AIDS, the government has identified geographical areas needing immediate
intervention interms o f prevention, care and treatment. These areas are as follows:

     (i)    Huila Province, where VCT, care and treatment programs will be established to
            receive the major influx of HIV patients coming from the southern provinces o f
            Namibeand Cunene and currently going to Luanda; Namibe and Cunene are situated
            on a major corridor between Angola and Namibia with a significant flux of people
            with a highriskbehavior (commercial sex workers, truck drivers);

     (ii)   Huambo Province will be strengthened around the Huambo regional hospital that
            includes part o f the Faculty o f Medicine. It will be covering Benguela, Lobito, Bie,
            andpossibly Kwanza Sul;



                                                 11

     (iii)  Services will be reinforced so that Malanje Province becomes a center that services a
           wider catchment area including Kwanza Norte, LundaNorte, Lunda Sul and Moxico;

     (iv)   Cabinda Province that is potentially a high-prevalence area. The province i s
            surrounded by the Democratic Republic o f Congo and Congo Brazzaville. Private oil
            companies have been providing support to the health sector, notably through VCT.
            The government plans to start a PMTCTprogram shortly.

Inthe case of Tuberculosis, the government has selected 11provinces for the initial expansion
of the DOTS program: Bengo, Benguela, Bie, Cabinda, Huambo, Huila, Lunda Norte, Malanje,
Moxico, and Uige.

As regards Malaria, the government is currently finalizing its national strategic plan, after which
the program o f geographical implementationwill bedesigned.The epidemic-proneprovinces o f
Namibe, Cunene, Huila, and Huambo will be the first where epidemic response capacity will be
developed.

There will be a close coordination between the HAMSET and Global Fund projects. Both
projects support different parts o f the same Angolan national strategy. They could actually
operate in the same provinces, but in different municipalities, to be decided as detailed
operational plans are put together during the next 3-4 months. As Local Recipient o f funds from
the GF, UNDP will work closely with the HAMSET PCU and the M O H to ensure
complementarity o f operations on the ground.

3.       Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes and results. After 30 years o f civil war, the
health sector inAngola i s inthe early stages o f rehabilitation, andthis i s equally true o f its health
information systems. Although progress i s being made, much disease specific monitoring and
evaluation i s plaguedby poor reporting, lack o f technical capacity, especially in areas outside o f
the capital, and behavioral surveys that may not be comparable over time as populations move
and change. However, HIV/AIDS, malaria, and TB control programs have established well-
defined strategic plans with goals and targets, and there is a great deal of awareness inthe M O H
and among NGOs o f the importance o f developing a good monitoring and evaluation system to
measure progress.

Project indicators have been established in line with the government's national strategy and
monitoring and evaluation framework. They are presented inAnnex 3, together with a matrix o f
annual targets for 2005-2010.

The government's data collection strategy was reviewed to ensure that data would be available
through surveys or routine collection of statistics. An HIV prevalence survey i s currently being
undertaken, with collaboration from CDC and other institutions through 26 sentinel sites. The
final report is expected to be ready in December 2004. The plan i s to repeat the study in June
2005 and annually thereafter. Financing for the annual surveys is expected to be available from
the Global Fund. The three indicators o fbehavioral surveillance for HIV/AIDS will be measured
using the Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS) methodology and will be financed by the



                                                  12

project. As regards the rest o f the project indicators, it was confirmed that they would be readily
available from data routinely collected by the M O H and the HAMSET PCU during
implementation.

The M O H will need to build capacity for data analysis and to strengthen monitoring and
evaluation systems. To that effect the monitoring and evaluation specialist contracted by
HAMSET,as well as the one to be providedto the M O Hby DFID inearly 2004, will play a key
role. They will help put together and implement the training activities contemplated under
HAMSET and other programs both at the central andprovincial levels.

4.       Sustainability. Prevention o f a full-blown HIV/AIDS epidemic would impact the
sustainability o f all development efforts inAngola. The social and economic impact o f a rapidly
spreading epidemic i s hard to quantify, but it i s clear that the costs across all sectors would be
high. It is of no use to train, educate, or cure people if they will, subsequently, die of AIDS.
Mitigatingthe epidemic would, therefore, reduce the costs o f treatment, morbidity and mortality.

The project would increase the health sector's institutional capacity to develop policies,
implement programs, collect and analyze data as well as monitor and evaluate the effectiveness
o f interventions. The three epidemics require a long-term effort to be effectively controlled and
contained. Therefore, this increased capacity would enhance sector sustainability by enabling a
long-term, well-targeted, and multi-sectoral response. Cost-recovery mechanisms are not
considered in this project as they would hamper the immediate response necessary to strengthen
the sector, and unacceptably delay project implementation.

Inwar-affected areas, there would be a need to replace destroyed infrastructure, but this would
be done largely through the EMRP project. The HAMSET project would finance only a small
amount o f infrastructure, and when possible rehabilitation rather than construction. As a result,
the incremental recurrent costs o f the HAMSET project would benegligible.

With regard to financial sustainability, it is likely that, as oil revenues increase, the govemment
would be able to finance an increasing share o f the program in the medium-term. As full
financing may not be possible, it is realistic to expect that bilateral and multilateral development
agencies would continue to finance HAMSET beyond the period o f project implementation. To
that effect, the capacity o f HAMSET to demonstrate results will be crucial.




                                                   13

5.      Critical risks and possible controversial aspects.



                                              There i s high-level political commitment to fight
Societal denial o f the threat       H        HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB. To sustain the level
o f HIV/AIDS and low                          D f support, the Bank would work with other
priority given to it, or                      jonors to keep HIV/AIDSinthe forefront o f
alternatively rising                          public discourse and encourage more openness.
expectations that are                         Extensive awareness campaigns wouldbe
unsatisfied                                   ;onducted. Civil society andcommunity leaders
                                              have beeninvolved early inproject preparation.
                                              M&E wouldhelpkeep track ofproject
                                              performance.
From Componentsto
outputs
Insufficient implementation          S        The weakness o f civil society institutions outside
capacity o f implementing                     o fmain cities is a concern. The project would
entities.                                     provide resources to strengthenNGO and
                                              community-basedorganizations (CBO) capacity
                                              andto buildpartnerships between local and
                                              international NGOs.Assessment o fNGOs, CBOs
                                              and others interms o fpast experience and
                                              performance would provide the basis for selection
                                              andprovision o f TA. Project implementation
                                              would be phased in, starting with areas where
                                              capacity already exists.


Lineministries lack capacity         H        Resources to line ministries and local government
and commitment to carry out                   agencies would depend on demonstration o f
sector programs.                              interest, execution o f an initial core set o f
                                              activities, and reporting. TA would be provided
                                              to line ministries.

Slow disbursement o f finds           S       Simple procurement and disbursement procedures
because o f limitedfinancial                  for community-based investmentswould be used
andprocurement capacity.                      for a large part o f the program. A substantial part
                                              o f procurement and financial functions would be
                                              outsourced.

Fiduciary problems,                  M        Mechanisms built into project design include: (i)
includingmisuse of funds                      contracting out o f financial management; (ii)
                                              smervision o f submoiect imdementation: fiii)



                                               14

                                                reporting linking performanceto financial costs;
                                                (iv) random audits o f small executing entities;
                                                and (v) financial audits o f all large executing
                                                agencies.

Overall Risk Rating                    H        Project risks would bemitigatedthrough a phased
                                                approach and a close coordinationbetween




At this stage, there is no clear indication o f stakeholders being threatened by the project. A
process o f consultation i s being undertaken with key government, non-govemment, and
intemational stakeholders, and groups o f people living with HIV/AIDS. The latter group can be
expected to advocate strongly for treatment.

Grant conditionsandcovenants.

1.      As conditionofBoardpresentation,a finalized healthcarewaste management plan
would have beenpresented.

2.      Conditionsof effectiveness would be as follows:

    (i)    the OperationalManual would havebeenadopted;
    (ii)   the Financial andProcurement ManagementUnitwould havebeencontracted;
    (iii)  the project account would have beenopened and initial deposit made; and
    (iv)   the Technical Subcommittee o f the CCM would have appointed its members and
           would be filly operational.

3.      Other conditionswould be as follows:

    (i)    the Borrower would implement the project in accordance with the Operational
           Manual and any substantial change inthe Manualwould require prior IDA approval;
    (ii)   the Borrower would maintain the PCU in form, substance, resources, and with
           functions that are satisfactory to IDA;
    (iii)  the Borrower would conduct a mid-term review no later than June 30,2007; and
    (iv)   the Financial Management Manual would have been completed within two months o f
           effectiveness and a new accounting software installed within six months o f
           effectiveness.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1.      MAP Access criteria.Angola is eligible for MAP I1funding inthat it is inline with the
MAPeligibilitycriteria, namely:




                                                15

(i)Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS. Angola has adopted a
participatory approach in the formulation o f its National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan dated June
2003. The process that took place over a number o f weeks involved key line ministries, civil
society includingNGOs, churches and the private sector who formed part o f the working group
that drafted the Plan. The draft was improved and finalized after consultation with nine
ministries, the national Assembly, 15 provinces, UNagencies, national and international NGOs,
PLWHA, church representatives, and others. The Plan explicitly recognizes the importance o f
the private sector, including oil companies, in the fight against HIV/AIDS. It promotes the
strengtheningo fthe collaborationbetweenthe government andcivil society.


(ii)highlevelHIV/AIDScoordinatingbody.Createdinearly2003, theNationalHIV/AIDS
    A
and Endemic Diseases Commission (NCAED) was established by the government under the
chairmanship o f the President of Angola. The membership of the commission includes ministers
of key line ministries. The C C M was established in 2002 to prepare the GF proposal. It i s
composed o f five line ministries, eight international agencies, and seven NGOs. The current
Chairman i s the Vice Minister o f Health. The Technical Subcommittee of the C C M (TS) will
approve Community Response subprojects financed by HAMSET. Coordination between the
NCAED andthe C C M will be ensuredthrough ajoint Executive Secretariat (Annex 6);


(iii)Government agreement to use exceptional implementation arrangements. The government i s
preparedto accelerate project implementation by channeling finds to communities, civil society
and the private sector. Further, the government has contracted private professionals to manage
the implementation o f the HAMSET and has agreed to contract out financial and procurement
management to a firm. It will contract out some aspects o fmonitoring and evaluation; and

(iv) Government agreement to use andfund multiple implementation agencies. The government
has agreed to expand HIVIAIDS activities to cover as broad a range o f ministries as possible, as
well as to provinces and local entities. It will fund activities undertaken by communities,
community-based organizations, nsn-governmental organizations, trade andworker associations,
and the private sector.

2.      Economic and financial analyses. The detailed economic analysis on HIV/AIDS has
been carried out under the MAP, which includes an overall assessment of the impact o f
HIV/AIDS on economic development and poverty, and a cost-benefit analysis o f HIV/AIDS
interventions3. This section only highlights some key points for the Angola HAMSET Project.

The HlV/AIDS epidemic inAfrica has gone beyond the health sector and has become a serious
socioeconomic development issue. HIV/AIDS affects a country's economy through (i)         reducing
productivity, domestic savings and economic growth; and (ii)     increasing the costs of treatment
and care for both affected households and society as a whole. In Angola, the HIV epidemic is
spreading, with prevalence in adults estimated to be 5.5 percent. About 125,000 have already
died from AIDS and left over 140,000 orphans. Ifno action is taken, Angola could lose 0.5-1.0



 ProjectAppraisalDocumentinSupportofthe FirstPhaseofthe Multi-CountryHIViAIDS Programfor the Africa
Region(MAP 1)ReportNo. 20727 AFR


                                                16

percent o f Gross Domestic Product (GDP) every year directly from HIV/AIDS. AIDS strikes
people intheir most productive age, reducingboththe size and growth of the nation's labor force.

Care and treatment for AIDS impose enormous costs on households and society at large.
Households with AIDS patients are likely to lose the income o f their members (often the main
breadwinner) in addition to facing an increase inmedical expenses. Some households are forced
to withdraw their children from school in order to save money as one o f their coping strategies.
Households may spend up to a third o f their annual income on medical care in one month or on
one funeral.

The economic benefits o f the proposed project are multifold. First, since this project aims to
scale up interventions in HIV/AIDS control and mitigation, the majority o f Angolans would
directly and indirectly benefit from increased access to HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, care
and mitigation activities. Second, new HIV infections would be reduced, due to an expansion in
coverage o f the package o f HIVIAIDS prevention activities supported by the project. Third,
people living with HIV/AIDS can lead a longer and more productive life by benefiting from
better management o f opportunistic infections and access to improved nutrition; and therefore
would experience less loss inproductivity and income. Fourth, with increased schooling, orphans
would have improved economic prospects. As the data analysis showed inAnnex 5 o f the MAP,
a reduction in AIDS-related death rate would likely increase the growth rate of GDP. The
targeted interventions would benefit vulnerable groups such as teenage girls and pregnant
women by improving access to VCT, treatment and care.

Fiscal Impact. The fiscal impact of the project i s expected to be small. Some US$4.0 million are
estimated to be disbursed annually, representing less than 1.3 percent o f the total government
budget in FY03. Counterpart funds are not expected to be unduly heavy. Civil works in this
project would be restricted to the renovation o f existing health centers and reference laboratories
and thus the requirement for recurrent costs would be limited. The project would cover
US$160,000 o f incremental operating expenses (less than 1.0 percent o f total IDA financing)..
The government is expected to assume responsibility for the maintenance o f project investments
after the closure o fthe project.

3.      Technical. The project would finance health manpower training and supplies for the use
o f standard clinical management protocols developed by the government, as recommended by
UNAIDS or WHO. These standards would be used in voluntary testing and counseling,
prevention o f mother to child transmission, prevention o f opportunistic infections, inthe clinical
management o f sexually transmitted infections and opportunistic infections, as well as malaria
and TB control. Inthe latter case, the project would help scale up the implementation o fDOTS.

4.      Fiduciary. During appraisal, the Bank reviewed the proposed financial management
arrangements, including the proposed systems o f accounting, reporting, auditing, and internal
controls to ensure that they meet the Bank's minimumrequirements. The review also considered
the proposed financial management software to ensure that it would be capable o f recording
correctly all transactions and balances, supporting the preparation o f regular and reliable
financial statements, and producing Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) in accordance with
Bank's requirements.



                                                 17

The project will contract a Financial and Procurement Management Unit (FPMU), which
possesses recognized accounting and procurement qualifications. The FPMU will report to the
PCU Director and will be responsible for installing the necessary internal control systems. The
FPMU will also be responsible for carrying out periodic audits of sub-projects. An external
auditor would be appointed under conditions satisfactory to IDA. Details o f the financial
management arrangements are presented inAnnex 7.

The procurement o f goods and services would be carried out according to Bank procurement
guidelines. Detailed arrangements are presented inAnnex 8.

5.      Social. The project would have a positive social impact by assisting and empowering
people and institutions to deal more effectively with the HIV epidemic. The existing widespread
poverty and lack o f knowledge play a role in making individuals vulnerable to HIV infection.
The project would promote access to prevention, care and mitigation services for the vulnerable
groups inthe population through supporting communities as well as the public sector.

Social stigmas associated with HIV/AIDS may potentially decrease the impact of the project.
Some key targets groups may be difficult to reach. The project design seeks to reduce the
barriers through education and communication campaigns that would stress integration. To foster
social inclusion, empowerment of communities, and social cohesion, the project would use
several strategies proven successfuI, such as: (i)
                                                 sensitization at an early age in schools; (ii)
                                                                                             peer
support; and (iii)use o f social workers, women and youth as agents for change.

Issues such as prevention o f HIV transmission through youth education and distribution of
condoms may raise cultural and religious sensitivities. The project would involve key
stakeholders who are experienced indealing with these issues (Le. civil society organizations and
PLWHA) to help overcome these barriers inlocally appropriate ways and ensure that no groups
are excluded from program implementation. The Community Response component would help
communities develop culturally sensitive and acceptable ways to respond to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic.

PLWHA and their families face continued violations o f their economic and human rights. To
raise awareness and acceptance o f their rights, the project would finance IEC activities
advocating against social stigmatization and discriminatory work place practices. The project
would also pay special attention to women, who do not receive adequate information on their
vulnerability to HIV/AIDS. Sexual workers would receive information about protection against
HIV/AIDSand alternative sources o fincome.

Project preparation has been participatory with consultations with major stakeholders, including
line ministries, NGOs, religious organizations, the private sector, the military, and health
providers This would be followed by a broad-based strategic planning process at the provincial
level. Participatory activities would continue and expand during project execution. Civil society
organizations would continue to be consulted duringproject implementation andwould execute a
significant part o f the project through the Community Response component. They would be




                                                18

consulted as part o f the evaluation process such as annual reviews, mid-term review, and at
project completion.

Project indicators are aimed at monitoring social impact and social development outcomes. The
key indicators focus on quality o f life and social inclusion, through the improvement o f health
and public health. Key stakeholders would participate in annual project evaluations that would
assess performance, research findings, and lessons learned.

6.      Overview of NGOs. At present 100internationalNGOs and over 300 national NGOs are
estimated to be working in Angola. Most international as well as national NGOs have been
largely involved in emergency relief operations or broader programs. They are currently in the
process o f mainstreaming their engagement strategies towards the support o f post-conflict
investmentsinthe social sector.

Inthebroader fieldofhealthcare ingeneral (rather thanjust HIVIAIDS), the network ofnational
NGOs with capacity to provide health care is still limited. It includes mainly the various faith-
based organizations operating hospitals and health centers inLuanda and in some provinces. The
large network of Christian Church rural hospitals that were closed during the war are now being
rehabilitated. The Catholic Church also has a network o f health centers and hospitals, supported
by Caritas. Besides Luanda, some o f the provinces where faith-based organizations are present
with health facilities are Benguela, Huila, Cunene, Huambo, Bie, Cabinda, and Malanje. The
churches are not yet filly involved in AIDS prevention activities but are important partners in
malaria and TB control and incommunity-basedinterventions.

The group o f secular NGOs is generally weak. The majority is involved in education and
agriculture rather than health. Some o f the few secular NGOs working inhealth are dedicated to
the fight against AIDS through BCC and IEC interventions. At least one NGO supports
PLWHA. International NGOs are present and have beenproviding services o fhealthprevention,
promotion and care in remote areas. They are involved in the control o f AIDS, malaria and in
certain cases TB, including DOTS expansion.

Only a few NGOs are directly involved in HIV/AIDS. Some active NGOs in Angola include:
ANASO (Angolan Network of AIDS Services Organization) ADPP, C U A M M (International
College for Health Cooperation), GOAL, Cruz Vermelha Angolana (CVA), LPV, PSI, and CAJ-
JIRO.

The FAS I1project has been a successfbl program o f the Social Action Fund that has disbursed
US$33 millionthrough NGOs and communities.

Civil society organizations galvanizing against HIV/AIDS need leadership training, greater
technical expertise, and stronger management capacity. This i s being provided by a number o f
donors. The HAMSET project will also contribute to the effort. A capacity development
specialist will bepart o fthe PCUteam.

7.      Environment. The project has been classified as a "B" category for environmental
screening purposes. An assessment o f current health care waste management and disposal



                                                19

systems was undertaken. The detailed findings are presented in Annex 10 and are summarized
below.

Current practices inhealth care waste and contaminated health care waste handling, storage and
disposal raises environmental and social concerns. At present, there are no available national
environmental and social policies and regulations for the safe handling, storage and disposal o f
waste, including health care waste. Nor are there national policies and regulations related to pest
control and pesticides use and management. Hence there i s a need for a thorough assessment o f
health care waste and disposal, with a particular focus on management o fwaste from HIV/AIDS,
tuberculosis, and other infectious diseases.

The government has used the PPF to develop a national Health Care Waste Management Plan.
HAMSET would facilitate the implementation o f the plan, including capacity building,
mitigation measures and their timely monitoring. Financing for priority actions o f the Plan, up to
US$200,000 are included in the HAMSET project. Financing for further activities o f the plan
would be proposed under the EMRP which will support the rehabilitation o f health centers and
municipal hospitals as well as training for health facilities staff. Additional sources of financing
would also be sought, including from the government budget itself.

Notwithstanding the above issues, there i s fertile ground for success for the health care waste
management plan.Provincialandlocal governments are open to improvingtheir waste collection
and have a decentralized structure to that effect. A new strategy has been developed in
conjunction with the Ministry o f Urbanism and Environment. This strategy i s designed to
revamp current management practices o f waste, in general, and health care waste inparticular, It
establishes a new centralized incineration center for infectious health care waste and a new
sanitary dump site, and brings on board three new private waste management service providers
to complement the activities o f the existingprivate service provider, and broaden the coverage o f
waste management and disposal activities in a safe and timely fashion. Finally, there are a
number o fenvironmentally focusedNGOsinthe country, who canplay a crucial role inbehavior
change activities targeted at scavenging communities.


8.       Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                 Yes                   N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                     [XI                  [I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                [I                   [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    [I                   [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11-03,beingrevised as OP 4.11)                        [I                   [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         [I                   [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                        [I                   [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                         11                   1x1
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                 [I                   [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                    [I                   [XI


'Bysupportingtheproposedproject,theBankdoesnotintendtoprejudicethefinaldeterminationof theparties'claimsonthe
disputed areas


                                                    20

 Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                    [I           [XI



9.     Policy Exceptions and Readiness. The project does not require exceptions from Bank
policies. The project meets the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation.




                                                21

                                        Annex 1: Country andSector Background4
                 ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                                    -


Demography.Angola is administratively dividedinto 18 provinces, 164 municipalities and 564
communes. The country is characterized by a number o f ethnic groups, cultures and traditions,
national languages andbehaviors. The total population i s estimatedat 13.9 million.

EpidemiologicalProfile. The health status of the Angolan population stands amongst the worst
inthe world. The maternalmortality rate was estimated in 1995 at 1,300 per 100,000 livebirths'
and other estimates put it at 1,8506. Less than half of women give birthwith assistance o ftrained
personnel and a third do not make a single pre-natal visit. In2001, infant mortality was 150 for
every 1,000 children under one year while the mortality o f under 5 year olds was estimated at
250 per th~usand.~

Angola has not yet gone through a demographic transition and still has a high fertility rate o f
seven'. There i s an early beginning o f active sexual life with 27 percent o f women aged 15-19
being already mothers, and a low contraceptive prevalence: only 7 percent use a modem
contraceptive method compared with an average o f 22 percent inSub-Saharan Africa.

Angola has faced various outbreaks over the past years: poliomyelitis in 1999, with a total of
1,117 childrenaffected; meningitiswith 1,263 cases and 152 deaths untilOctober 20029, measles
invarious provinces withmortality varying from 7,000 to 15,000 deaths per year over the period
2002-2005lo.          This results from poor sanitation and water supply, and inadequate preventive
programs, including low routine immunization coverage.

With regard to endemic diseases, malaria is the main cause o f morbidity with 40 percent o f
children dying in the first five years o f life. It i s also an important source o f maternal mortality
with one fourth o f maternal deaths associated with malaria. Malaria accounts for around 80
percent o f the demand for care and 50 percent o f in-patients. Acute respiratory and diarrheal
diseases are the next causes of morbidity and mortality. Altogether, the three diseases account for
approximately 70 percent of all causes of morbidity and 60 percent o f all causes o f mortality.
Around 21,000 cases o f TB have been registered" and around 7,000 new cases are diagnosed
every year. This i s in fact an underestimation o f TB incidence since the health network i s
incapable o f screening respiratory patients and avoids doing so because T B drugs are not widely
available. Out o f 1,463 health facilities in the provinces, only 4 percent (54 facilities) were
implementingDOTS12byDecember 2003.


  a significant part of the information provided in this annex comes from"Joao Blasques de Oliveira Report on ExploratoryVisit to Angola to
                                                                                                   -
Prepare a MAP (May-June 2003)" and "WHO Country Cooperation Strategy -June 2003"
  OMSIUNICEFIFNUAP, Matemal Mortality in 1995: Estimates Developed by WHO,UNICEF,UNFP; OMS, Geneva, 2001
'6MOH,Plano    Estrategico Nacional de Sa6de Reprodutiva, Luanda, 2002
* total
  INE,Resultadosdos indicadores Multiplo, MICS2,2001, Folha de InformapLorapida, April 2002
       number of births a woman can expect during her life time (MICS2)
  CPDEIDNSP; Boletim Epidemiologico semanalweek 42,2002
lo MOH,DNSP,Departamento de Higienee Epidemiologia,OMS,UNICEF; Plano EstratCgicopara a redupso da mortalidade por Sarampo em
   Angola, 2002-2005, October 2002
l1byJune2003
l2 MOH/National Directionof Public Health, Strategic Plan of NationalProgram of Tuberculosis Control (NTP) 2003-2007,Luanda,August 2002



                                                                        22

Factors such as the destruction o f a large part of the health network during the war, the
deterioration o f the. socio-economic fabric, the vast population movements, and HIV/AIDS
related diseases, are all at the root o f the worsening o f the population's health status. Some o f
these factors further explain the poor capacity o f the services to detect and treat other chronic
diseases, including leprosy and trypanosomiasis. The information available on the trends o f
infection with HIV point to an exponential growth o f prevalence rates, particularly in pregnant
women and those suffering from STIs. In a survey o f pregnant women carried out in 2001, HIV
prevalence was shown at 8.6 per cent against 3.4 per cent in 1999. Also, surveys o f sex workers
demonstrated a rapid increase inprevalence from 19 percent in 1999 to 32.8 percent in2001. The
HIV/AIDS epidemic could further deteriorate and the transmission could speed up because of
population movements that continue to occur. The epidemic risks spreading because o f the still
limited knowledge about this disease, the low availability o f counseling and ART, and the high
number o fbloodtransfusions becauseo finjuries from landmines.

One program that performed according to plan has been polio eradication. From the more than
1,000 cases o f polio in 1999, Angola only registered one case in 2000, another one in 2001 and
no case in 2002. This result was reached thanks to the strong political commitment and
leadership o f the MOH.

Epidemiological Surveillance. Angola has a weak and fragmented epidemiological surveillance
system. Starting in2001, inan attempt to improve it, the MOH, incollaborationwith WHO, the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and Italy, have been installing six sentinel
surveillance sites in six provinces: Luanda, Benguela, Huila, Cabinda, Malanje and Lunda Sul.
This network will be expanded under the HAMSET project. Details on the strengthening o f the
epidemiological surveillance system are presentedinAnnex 3.

Provision of Health Services. The MOH i s the institution responsible for health care inAngola.
It is organized in central executive units (Directorate o f Public Health, Directorate o f Human
Resources, Directorate o f Drugs and Equipment); technical support units (National Health
Inspectorate, Legal Cabinet, General Secretariat, Cabinet o f Studies, Planning, and Statistics, and
National Health); and general support units (Cabinet of the Minister, Cabinet o f Vice Ministers,
and Cabinet o f International Cooperation). It also oversees the National Institute o f Public
Health, the National Trypanosomiasis Institute, and National Reference Hospitals. The
Provincial Directorates oversee the regional hospitals.

Health infrastructure was badly damaged during the war. According to official datal3, about 65
percent o f the health units were destroyed and most o f their equipment either stolen or
deteriorated because o f years o f lack o fmaintenance, especially inthe peripheral areas. There are
huge variations between provinces in availability o f services. Cabinda province shows the best
ratio o f 9,400 persons per healthcenter and Bie the worst with around 460,000 persons per health
center. Six provinces have a ratio higher than 80,000 inhabitants per health center14. Hospital
care predominates over primary health care, as demonstrated by the national average o f 0.7
hospitalbeds for every 1,000 inhabitants, a low index but not different from most countries inthe


l3MOH, Diagnostic0da Situaqlo da Rede Sanitiria; Vol..l;Cap.V: Estadode conservaqlo das unidadessanitiirias, Luanda, 1999
l4PNUD, Relatorio Desenvolvimento Humano-Angola, Luanda 1997



                                                                  23

region. Resources are concentrated inthe capital and there are fewer beds inperipheral areas. To
correct distortions and achieve better equity o f access to services, the network needs to be
expanded according to, for example, demographic and epidemiological criteria. This will be one
of the main challenges o f the M O H and its partners inthe health sector. These efforts would be
supported by the Bank principally through the EMW project.

An important player in the health sector is the Ministry of Defense (MOD). The MOD has
almost 200 doctors and five regional hospitals with surgical capabilities and a network o f small
healthposts at lower levels that in some areas are the only provider o f modern health care to the
population. Its organization and technical levels are more developed than that o f the MOH. There
i s a good working relationship between the MOD and the MOH. For example, in the case o f
malaria, HIV/AIDSand TB control, strategic plans were designedjointly by the two ministries.

After 1992 there has been a major growth in the private sector, resulting in a proliferation o f
private practices, some o f them o f very low quality and the majority run by MOH employees.
According to a 2000 European Union (EU) survey, there were 476 private health services in
Luanda only. There i s no mechanism for regular supervision and quality assurance. Only 19
percent o f the private facilities are registered in the National Health Inspection office,.
Nevertheless some private facilities are o f high quality, especially in Luanda and in the oil
sector.

The network o fnationalNGOs with the capacity to provide health care is still limited.It includes
mainly the various faith-based organizations (FBOs) operating hospitals and health centers that
provide care in Luanda and in some provinces. The large network of Christian Church rural
hospitals that were closed during the war are now being rehabilitated. The Catholic Church also
has a network o f health centers and hospitals, supported by Caritas. Besides Luanda, some o f the
provinces where FBOs are present with health facilities are Benguela, Huila, Cunene, Huambo,
Bie, Cabinda, and Malanje. The churches are not yet fully involved inAIDS prevention activities
but are important partners in malaria and TB control activities and in community based
interventions. The Catholic Church in Angola i s not opposed to the use o f condoms, but
promotes fidelity with one partner andthe delayed beginningo f sexual activity.

The group o f secular NGOs i s generally weak. The majority i s involved in education and
agriculture rather than health. Some o f the few secular NGOs working in health are dedicated to
the fight against AIDS through BCC and IEC interventions. At least one NGO supports
PLWHA.International NGOs are present andhave beenproviding services o f healthprevention,
promotion and care in remote areas. They are involved in the control o f AIDS, malaria and in
certain cases TB, including DOTS expansion.

The majority of the population still continues to access the traditional health sector (traditional
healers and traditional birth attendants) as its principal provider o f health services, sometimes in
association with the services provided by the MOH and others. Traditional healers and birth
attendants would be important partners inthe HAMSET project. The M O H has a special unit that
i s studying and promoting traditional medical practices in view o f their progressive integration
into the nationalhealth system.




                                                  24

The M O H has an essential drug program that has defined a standard kit o f essential drugs for
primary health care facilities and for rural and municipal hospitals. Linked to the M O H i s
Angomedica, a drug warehouse and import parastatal that has also a small drug factory. The
MOH lacks resources, and access to drugs i s unreliable throughout the country. On the other
hand, the M O Hhas good training materials andprovides training on the rational use o fdrugs and
its monitoring.

Human Resources. In 2000, there were 45,563 workers in the public health system with 45
percent o f them technicians and 55 percent administrative and support staff. Therewere a total of
921 medical doctors, including 120 specialists and 122 doctors doing training outside the
country. Included in the 921 doctors are 281 foreign doctors contracted by the government. The
distribution o f doctors i s unequal inthe country, Luandahaving 68 percent o f all the doctors and
almost all the specialists.

There were 16,196 nurses. Ofthese, 74 percent had a mediumlevel training and 25 percent had a
basic training, and less than one percent had college training. There were 3,670 diagnosis and
therapeutics technicians. These include laboratory technicians, radiologists, pharmacy specialists
andphysical therapists.

Health Financing. From 1997 to 2001, the government of Angola devoted on average 1.5
percent of GDP to the health sector, while the average for the Southem Africa Development
Community (SADC) countries was 3.3 percent. Average per capita health expenditure over the
period was US$10.9. However, spending increased significantly in 2001 reaching US$19.6 per
capita, which i s about twice that o f similar African countries.

The proportion o f spending in the provinces increased from 44 percent o f total in 1999 to 55
percent in 2001. However, spending i s not evenly distributed. In2001 the interior province^'^
only spent US$ 4.6 per capita, but the costal and eastern provinces spent almost US$12. Some o f
the difference can be accounted to the fact that many o f the interior provinces were occupiedby
UNITA and access was restricted. Nevertheless these data underscore the fact that the
government should make a special effort to provide a more equitable distribution o f fbnding.

In2000 donor financing represented 24 percent oftotalhealthexpenditures, with only 10percent
of their contribution directed to the central level. In some provinces - Bie, Bengo, Huambo,
Kuando-Kubango, Malanje, and Uige - donor contribution exceeded 50 percent o f the provincial
health expenditure. These funds covered essential drug acquisitions, maternal and child health
care, maintenance and repair of medical equipment, with the government covering mainly
salaries and some limitedmaintenance and drug costs.

Duringthe 1990s, Angola underwent a process o f administrative deconcentration andreform in
budget management. The responsibilities o f provincial governments were strengthened at the
expense o f central level ministries. From2001,the Ministry o f Finance (MOF) beganto disburse


l5According to the following regional distribution ofprovinces: The interior zone includes Bie, Huambo, Huila,
Kwanza Norte, Malanje and Uige; The Eastern One includes the provinces o fKuando-Kubango, Lunda Norte,
Lunda Sul and Moxico and the Coastal Zone the provinces o f Bengo, Benguela, Cabinda, Kwanza Sul, Luanda,
Namibe and Zaire.


                                                        25

funds directly to national and provincial hospitals, and as a result has become the virtual leader
in the sector. There was a clear improvement in the financing of national and provincial
hospitals, but the question remains whether the MOF has the tools for an efficient and equitable
allocation o f health sector resources.




                                                26

       Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
             ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                           -


1.      Major relatedprojectsfinancedby the Bank




Reintegration o f          Post-Conflict Social Recovery            S        S
War-vulnerable
Population
Economic                   Economic Management and                  S        S
Management                 Technical Assistance

Social Action Fund         FASI11                                   S        S




2.      Major relatedprojectsfinancedby other agencies




HIV/AIDS
Support to youth and               UNICEF
religiousNGOSin                                               500,000
community participation
International                       USAID
communication project                                         513,000
focused on policemen,
students andsex workers
HIV/AIDS IEC inthe              Norway, UNDP                  3,423,000
education system
Blood Safety                          EU                      2,379,000
HIV/AIDS Control                  Global Fund                27,600,000''
Malaria Control                   Global Fund                25,300,000'8
TB Control                        Global Fund                7,300,000'y


l6Only projects above US$500,000 each have been included here
`*notabove
     yet signed as of September 2004
  as
19as above


                                                     27

                         Annex 3: ResultsFramework andMonitoring
            ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                        -

                  Developmentof the M&ESystemandResultsFramework

Four basic principles have guided the development o f the monitoring and evaluation framework
for the project: (i)
                   reinforce and strengthen existing M&E systems; (ii) that the HAMSET
                                                                         insure
M&E framework is harmonized with frameworks developed by other international donors such
as the Global Fund in order to build a shared donor vision of M&E and reduce the burden o f
reporting at the local level; (iii)
                                 select a minimalnumber o f realistic and attainable indicators to
be collected rather than a comprehensive list o f all possible measures; and (iv) emphasize a
community learning approach to data collection that can help program managers to better
manage programs.

The Bank's Global AIDS Monitoring and Evaluation Team (GAMET) has been deeply involved
in the preparation of the M&E plan and will continue to provide support throughout
implementation.

(i) Reinforce and strengthen existing M&E systems. The MOH, with the technical assistance o f
CDC and WHO, has replaced its system o f HIV prevalence studies with an unlinked,
anonymous, sentinel surveillance system, meeting international standards, to measure HIV
prevalence among pregnant women. This system i s being implemented in 18 antenatal clinics,
and the results are expected to be available inDecember 2004. This prevalence rate will serve as
the baseline for the primary outcome o fthe project. Testing for syphilis is being done at the same
time. A protocol outlining the methodology for the sentinel surveillance i s available on the
National AIDS Control Program's website. CDC is contracting a full time international
epidemiologist to be placed inthe MOH for about one year.

Data from VCT clinics are currently collected by Population Services International (PSI), an
NGO, and sent to the M O H for dissemination. A data entry clerk will be placed inthe National
Instituteo fPublic Health(NIPH) to help with the expected increase inthe volume oftests due to
scaling up o f VCT sites.

With support from WHO and UNICEF a network of sentinel sites, or "antennas," based on a
system o f radio transmissions, has been established in the Provincial Directorates o f Health in
each of the 18 provinces. These antennas provide integrated disease surveillance for malaria,
HIV, andTB among other infectious diseases. Municipalsurveillance officers hand carry data to
the provincial centers where it i s sent via telephone, fax or pouch depending on the urgency o f
the communication.

A National Malaria Information system has recently been implemented. It consolidates data on
implementation o f malaria control (e.g. ITN implementation) and data from epidemiological
surveys and surveys on coverage o f quality.       Indicators for the project will be collected by
inserting several questions into the Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS) population-based
survey for HIV/AIDS, to be financed byHAMSET.




                                                 28

A National TB Reporting Systemgathers TB patient data, sent to andcompiledbymunicipal TB
coordinators, who send reports every trimester to the National TB Control Program for data
entry.

A number o f donors have undertaken behavioral surveys o f specific populations. Data from the
Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) conducted in 2001included behavioral measures that
are proposed for the project. Population Services International (PSI) conducted surveys o f
commercial sex workers in2001 and 2002, and GOAL, an IrishNGO, conducted a knowledge,
attitude, and practice (KAP) survey in relation to HIV/AIDS and STIs among adolescents in
Moxico province.

The Angolan Armed Forces are completing a behavioral survey o f 2,400 soldiers (out o f a total
o f approximately 100,000 in the country) in Saurimo, Bie, Huila, and Luanda. A prevalence
study of 6,000 soldiers in Cabinda, Benguela, Cunene, Saurimo and Luanda is also underway
and is expected to be completed by December 2004. Targets will be set for the next five years
based on the results o f these two studies. The Armed Forces are coordinating closely with the
WHO Malaria Control Program indrug efficacy studies andwill receive funding for ITNs from
the Global Fund. Under an agreement with Drew University, the Armed Forces have developed
resources for M&Ethat would be tapped for HAMSET.

(ii) Insure that the HAMSET M&E framework is harmonized with frameworks developed by
other international donors. Project indicators have been established in line with the
government's national strategy and monitoring and evaluation framework. Technical assistance
provided by the project and by DFID will help the government ensure that all donors' reporting
systems and indicators are also in line with the government's monitoring and evaluation
framework.

(iii) Select a minimal number of realistic and attainable indicators. The government's data
collection strategy was reviewed to ensure that data would be available through surveys or
routine collection of statistics. An HIV prevalence survey is currently being undertaken, with
collaboration from CDC and other institutions through 26 sentinel sites. The final report i s
expected to be ready in December 2004. The plan i s to repeat the study in June 2005 and
annually thereafter. Financing for the annual surveys i s expected to be available from the Global
Fund. The three indicators o f behavioral surveillance for HIV/AIDSwill be measured using the
Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS) methodology and will be financed by the project. As
regards the rest o f the project indicators, it was confirmed that they would be readily available
from data routinely collected by the M O H and the HAMSET PCUduringimplementation.

(iv) Emphasize a community learning approach to data collection methods. One o f the key Bank
MAP strategies is "learning by doing," and this applies equally to helpingcommunities build
M&E capacity so that they can see where programs are not working and target resources more
effectively. The Bank has developed experience with the LQAS sampling technique in Uganda
insupport ofmonitoring andevaluation ofthe UgandaAIDS ControlProject. The LQAS method
for local assessment o f MAP activities has a number o f advantages that will make it usefbl for
the Angola HAMSET: (i) uses small samples; (ii) would be used locally in the MOH's 59
                            it                          it
targeted municipalities to identify areas not reaching established benchmarks for performance;



                                                 29

(iii)canalsomeasurecoverageatanaggregateleveloftheprovinceornation;(iv)itpromotes
    it
capacity building o f municipal health managers and local NGOs in M&E; and (v) it i s less
expensive and simpler to execute than traditional cluster sampling methods, making it possible to
undertake yearly monitoring.

Several resources exist inAngola for the training o f trainers inLQAS. The CORE child survival
collaboration involving the Angolan units o f Africare, Caritas, WHO and the MOH, undertook
an evaluation o f the polio National Immunization Day (NID) campaign in Sumbe province using
LQAS. Catholic Relief Services (CRS) in Benguela also used LQAS to develop a baseline for
maternal and child health (MCH) activities in 15 health posts in Sumbe in 2001 and undertook
follow-up surveys in2002.




                                               30

1. Development             OutcomeIndicators
ObjectiveHIV/AIDS:         HIV/AIDS:
To reduce the spread o f   HIV/AIDS prevalence       MOH/CDC Sero-           MOH/CDC receives
HIV/AIDS inthe             inpregnant women aged     ?revalence sentinel     kndingto implement
Angolan population          15-49                    surveillance o f 26     .ecently developed
through a multi-sector                               antenatal clinics       irotocol for HIV
approach that                                                                sentinel surveillance
strengthens institutional
sapacity and increases     Percentage of young       Behavioral surveillance Strong political and
access, and utilization o fpeople aged 15-24 who     3 f youth aged 15-24 in Financial commitment
quality health services    can both correctly        59 priority             iy public andprivate
for prevention,            identify ways o f         municipalities using    sectorsto increase
diagnosis, treatment,      preventing the sexual     LQAS                    iccess to HIV/AIDS
and care and support.      transmission o f HIV and                          wevention services
                           reject major
                           misconceptions about
                           HIVtransmission and
                           prevention

                           Percentage o f men and    Behavioral surveillance Condom supplies are
                           women aged 15-49          o f youth aged 15-24 in available and
                           reporting the use o f a   59 priority             affordable, and people
                            condom intheir last act  municipalities using    know how to use them
                            o f sexual intercourse   LQAS
                           with a non-regular
                            sexual partner during
                           the previous 12 months

                           Percentage o fpeople in Behavioral surveillance   Appropriate channels
                           highriskgroups             o f men and women in   used for communication
                            (commercial sex           59 priority            o f HIV messages to
                            workers, truckers,       municipalities using    highrisk groups
                           uniformed services, ex-    LQAS
                            combatants), who can
                            cite at least two major
                           modes o f HIV/AIDS
                           transmission and at least
                           two methods o f
                           protection.
outputs                     OutputIndicators
                           HIVIAIDS
1.1HIV/AIDS                Number o f V C T centers  National HIV/AIDS       Resources made           ~




prevention, treatment       functioning per year      Control Programreports available to NGOs for
and support activities                                                       training counselors and
initiated by public                                                          purchasing equipment




                                                    31

;ector, communities and Number o f counselors     Vational HIV/AIDS
ivil society            rainedper year            Zontrol Programreports
x-ganizations.
                        Vumber o fpeople being    VCT Reports             'eople trust the
                        ested for HIV                                      :onfidentiality of
                                                                           iervices and know
                                                                           where they are availabl

                        Vumber o f sentinel       Yational HIV/AIDS        vIOHICDC     receives
                        ;urveillance sites in     Zontrol Project reports  'undingto implement
                        mtenatal clinics          mdCDC reports            ;entinel surveillance
                        unctioning per year

                        Vumber o f health         National HIV/AIDS        Strong MOH leadership
                        Tacilities providing HIV Control Project reports   mdcooperation from
                        nfectedpregnant                                    x-ovincialhospital
                        Nomen and their                                    lirectors
                        iewboms with mother-
                        :o-child transmission
                        intervention services,
                        3er province


                        The total number o f      National HIV/AIDS        Condom supplies are
                        2ondoms distributed       Control Projectreports   available
                        through the public
                        sector and NGO
                        programs

                        Number of participating   National HIV/AIDS        Ministries take
                        line ministries that have Control Project reports  ownership of their
                        andare implementing                                HIV/AIDS plans
                        their respective
                        HN/AIDS work plans

                        Number o f provinces      HAMSET Project           Ministries take
                        that are implementing     Coordination Unit        ownership of their
                        integrated HIV/AIDS       reports                  HIV/AIDS plans
                        work plans

                        Amount o f funds          HAMSET Project           Effectiveness and speed
                        channeled to civil        CoordinationUnit         ofNGOproposal
                        society initiatives per   reports                  review process and
                        year.                                              fundingmechanisms
2. Development          OutcomeIndicators
Objective               Tuberculosis:
Tuberculosis (TBk
The goals o f the       Proportiono f the 59      TB Control Program       Commitment by
HAMSET TB Project i s   priority municipalities                            provincial health
to strengthen the       that have implemented                               authorities to implement
capacity of the health  TB control activities                              TB control activities


                                                 32

sector inAngola to        [this indicator i s more a
:educe the incidence o f  process indicator that an
TB, improve treatment     outcome indicator)
:ontinuity, and increase
:ure rates. The principal
strategies will be to
scale up DOTS in
?riority municipalities
mdto integrate TB and
HIV/AIDS
interventions.

                          Percentage o f diagnosed   TB Control Program  rrained staff, sputum
                          TB patients covered by                         smear microscopy
                          DOTS inthe 59 priority                         ;ervices and TB drugs
                          municipalities (process                        ivailable inpriority
                          indicator)                                     irovinces

                          Percentage o f VCT         VCT records         Staff trained inprotocol
                          clients who test positive                      mdable to implement it
                          for HIV who are                                m busy settings
                          screened for
                          symptomatic TB
                          (process indicator)
outputs                   OutputIndicators
2.1. Support through      Number o f staff trained   TB Control Program  TB Control Programhas
direct observation o f    inDOTS ineach                                  sapacity to implement
treatment i s enhanced    priority municipality                          training

2.2. Identificationo f    Number o fpriority         TB Control Program  Availability o f trained
infectious cases i s      municipalities that have                       technicians for other lab
increased                 laboratories with                              functions in
                          adequate equipment and                         municipalities
                          trained technicians to do
                          sputumsmear
                          microscopy

2.3. Counselingand         Number o f facilities     TB Control Program  TB patients see value in
voluntary testing for     providing VCT services                         testing
TB patients               for HIV testing to TB
                          patients

2.4. Case finding is      VCT sites implementing TB Control Program      Staff able to integrate
supported                 protocols to screen                            TB screening into HIV
                           symptomatic TB in                             AIDS counseling
                          HIV positivepersons




                                                    33

3. Development            Outcome indicator
ObjectiveMalaria:
                                                      ~
The goals o f the         tnstitutional mortality     Malaria Control     Under the New Malaria
HAMSETMalaria             due to malaria among        ProgramRecords      ControlNational
component are to          childrenunder five                              Strategic Plan, a
strengthen the capacity   years                                           monitoring and
o f the Ministry o f                                                      evaluation framework
Health, its National                                                      was definedbased on
Malaria Control                                                           the routine health
Program and the                                                           information system o f
Provincial Health                                                         the Ministry o f Health.
Directorate for effective Institutionalmaternal       Malaria Control      Same as above
case management. The      mortality due to malaria    Program Records
Project will finance
selected activities not
covered by the Global
Fund.The HAMSET
will collaborate withthe
National Malaria
Control Program (MCP)
by including two
Malaria outcome
indicators inHAMSET
behavioral surveys for
HIV/AIDS.
outputs                   OutDutIndicators
3.1 Coordinators o f      Number o f Malaria           Malaria Control    Provincial staff are
Malaria Control           Control Program              ProgramRecords     trained and slulls are
Program and trainers are  coordinators trained in                         retained
trained incase            operational
management                management, budgeting
                          and supervision.

                          Number o f trainers          Malaria Control    Medical practitioners
                          trained inmalaria case       ProgramRecords      committed to new case
                          management per                                   management guidelines
                          province.




                                                  34

            Outcome indicators                     2005        2006        2007     2008       2009    2010
                 HIV/AIDS
 HIV/AIDS     prevalence"                          11%         13%          15%     17%         18%    19%21
 Percentage o f young people aged 15-24            60%         65%          70%     75%         80%    85%
 who can both correctly identify ways
 o f preventing the sexual transmission
 o f HIV and reject major
 misconceptions about HIV
 transmission and prevention
 Percentage o f men and women aged                 10%         20%          40%     50%         70%    80%
 15-49 reporting the use o f a condomin
 their last act o f sexual intercourse with
 a non-regular sexual partner duringthe
 previous 12 months
 Percentage o f people inhigh-risk                 75%         90%          98%     100%       100%    100%
 groups (commercial sex workers,
 truckers, uniformed services, ex-
 combatants), who can cite at least two
 major modes o f H N / A I D S
 transmission and at least two methods
 o f protection.
             TUBERCULOSIS
 Proportion of the 59 priority                      4%         40%          50%     70%         90%    100%
 municipalities that have implemented
 TB control activities
 Percentage o f diagnosed TB patients               5%         25%          45%     65%         70%     75%
 coveredby DOTS inthe 59 priority
 municipalities
 Percentage o f VCT clients who test                5%         35%          50%     60%         70%     80%
 positive for HIV who are screened for
 symptomatic TB
                 MALARIA
 Institutionalmortality due to malaria             53%         45%          35%      25%        15%    15%  23
 among children under five years22
 Institutionalmaternal mortality due to            32%          27%         20%      15%        10%     10%
 malaria24
             Output indicators
                 HIV/AIDS
 Number o fV C T centers functioning                30           50          90      140         170    200
 per year
 Number o f counselors trainedper year              44           100         180     280        340     400
 Number o f Deonle being tested for HIV            50,000      75,000      135,000 210,000     255.000 300.000
 Number o f sentinel surveillance sites in          26           50          80      100         140    180



2oHIV/AIDS prevalence will be measured inpregnant women aged 15-49as a proxy for the general population
21An explanationof why this indicator is expected to increase is presented at the endof this annex
22Fromthe List o f Indicators o f the Malaria Control National Strategic Plan2005-2009
23Further explanation on this indicator i s presented at the end of this annex
24Fromthe List o f Indicators of the Malaria Control National Strategic Plan2005-2009


                                                           35

                                             2005       2006       2007      2008     2009  2010
 Amount o f funds channeled to civil          1.5        1.6        1.8       2.0     2.5   3.0
 society initiatives per year (US$
 million).
            TUBERCULOSIS
 Number of staff trained inDOTS in
 each priority municipality
 Number of priority municipalities that        6         20          30        40      50    59
 have laboratories with adequate
 equipment and trainedtechnicians to
 do sputum smear microscopy
 Number o f facilities providing VCT           5          15         25        35      45    59
 services for HIV testing to TB patients
 VCT sites implementingprotocols to            5          15         30        60      100   120
 screen symptomatic TB inHIV
 positive persons
                 MALARIA
 Number o f Malaria Control Program            9          18         25        35      45    55
 coordinators trained inoperational
 management, budgeting and
 supervision.
 Number o f trainers trained inmalaria         10         20         30        40      45    50
 case management per province.


Notes: For the majority ofmost o f the indicators, the annual targets are cumulative.

Prevalence of HIV/AIDS. Prevalence i s defined as the number of persons affected by a disease
at a specific time divided by the number o f persons in the population at that time. One can
distinguishbetween point prevalence (at a point in time) or period prevalence (during a certain
period, e.g. one year).

In general, HIV epidemics evolve in such a way that in the early stages prevalence increases
rapidly and over 10-20 years, it tends to level off as shown in Figure 1. In Angola, where the
epidemic appears to be relatively young, due to the fact that the country was in a state of war
with less mobility o f people, prevalence can be expected to increase over the next 5 years or so




                                                     36

 despite the interventions that will be carried out. It should not be surprising to see this occur
 while measures are being taken to prevent new HIV infections.

 Also, if those infected live longer because o f some interventions (care, nutrition, treatment o f
 opportunistic infections as in HAMSET) or ART treatment (supported by the GF) then
 prevalence will increase. Repeated surveillance and surveys will indicate the pattern o f the curve
 and the tendency o f the epidemic over time.

                                Fig. 1:HIV progression over time




                   Angola?



  HIV
Prevalence




                                                            d
                                                              Time (years)


 Institutional mortality due to malaria. Institutional mortality (Le. in hospitals) i s used as a
 proxy for the case fatality rate. This rate, as recorded by the MOH, i s now 5 percent. This i s too
 high because, according to WHO, case fatality rate for malaria caused by plasmodium
faleiparum varies from 0.2 percent to 2 percent. But we also know that not all cases o f malaria
 have access to care and that not all cases identified as malaria are confirmed by laboratory tests,
 So it i s important for the M O H to improve: (i) management; and (ii) classification o f
                                                    case                       the
 cases. Both issues are addressed by the HAMSET project.




                                                   37

                                  Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
             ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                           -

The project includes four components: (i) Sector Response; (ii) Sector Response;
                                                   Public                           Health
(iii)Community Response; and (iv) Project Coordination.

Project Component 1- Public Sector Response25(US$2.6 million26,of which IDA: US$2.0
million). This component includes three subcomponents: (i)                 capacity building o f participating
line ministries and local government agencies; (ii)         support to line ministries to reduce the impact
o fHIV/AIDS,malaria and TB on their staff and dependents; and (iii)              support to line ministries to
reduce the impact o fthe same three diseases on extemal clients o f line ministries.

Capacity building. The project would help each ministry at the national, provincial, and
municipal levels: (i)form HIV/AIDS focal teams; (ii)prepare strategic plans including
operational plans for their internal clients (staff) and external clients (users o f their services)27;
(iii) peereducatorsforHIV/AIDS, malaria, andTBinprojectpreparation, management,
     train
and monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) conduct national HIV/AIDS conferences, workshops and
seminars for advocacy purposes.

Support to line ministries to reduce impact o f AIDS, malaria and TB on intemal clients. The
project would help participating line ministries and local government agencies at all levels: (i)
train HIV/AIDS focal points; (ii) trainers at the national level; (iii) ministry staff at the
                                         train                                      train
provincial and district levels; (iv) develop information, education, and communication (IEC) and
behavioral change and communication (BCC) materials, conduct IEC campaigns, and distribute
condoms; (v) inform staff and their families on referral services available in the country on
HIV/AIDSas well as onbenefits for PLWHA; (vi) sensitize staff andtheir families inprevention
and access to malaria and TB diagnosis and treatment; (vii) conduct baseline knowledge, attitude
and practices (KAP) survey within the ministry (staff and their dependents); (viii) conduct
annual assessments within the ministry; (ix) review staff and dependent benefits with respect to
long-term needs posed by HIV/AIDS and establish guidelines for timely disbursement o f
benefits; (x) strengthen the implementation o f policies on discrimination and protection o f
human rights o f PLWHA; (xi) review and strengthen gender-specific policies and programs
affecting bothministrystaff and the populations served; and (xii) mainstream HIV/AIDS related
activities into the core functions o f every sector.

Support to line ministries to reduce impact of AIDS, malaria and TB on external clients. The
project would help participating ministries and local government agencies perform the same
functions as above for its extemal clients. As project implementation progresses, ministries'
plans would incorporate lessons leamed and good practices. This would be initiated once
sufficient intemal capacity o f the ministries i s developed to provide support to its external


25Includes participating ministries and local government agencies, except the MOH that i s supported by Component
2
26Includes contingencies
27The project would explore Social Action Fund(FAS) support for capacity buildingrelated to HIV/AIDS, malaria,
and TB at the municipal level.


                                                        38

clients. Ministries and local governments that are already implementing HIV/AIDS initiatives
would target their extemal clients intheir first work plan.

Project Component2 - Health Sector Response (US12.5 million2*,of which IDA: US$7.2
million). This component would help the M O Hprevent and control the HIV/AIDS,malaria and
tuberculosis epidemics through clinical support.

HIV/AIDS. The project would help: (i)       strengthen the MOH capacity to implement the national
AIDS strategy; (ii)     improve the information and epidemiological surveillance system; (iii)     slow
the expansion o fthe HIV/AIDSepidemic; and (iv) mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDSon persons,
families and society.

Strengthen M O H capacity to implement the national HIV/AIDS strategy. The project would help
the MOH: (i)implement operational plans for AIDS, currently under preparation, at the
provincial and district levels; (ii)  provide communication and other equipment, furniture, and
supplies; and (iii)      prepare a policy on breast feeding and prevention o f mother-to-child
transmission (PMTCT).

Improve the information andepidemiological surveillance system. The project would: (i)           support
the establishment o f 12 sentinel sites for epidemiological surveillance through the provision o f
training, laboratory and communications equipment and materials, in collaboration with WHO
and others; (ii) prepare and distribute the national epidemiological bulletin29;(iii)
                   help                                                                        undertake
behavioral studies that would serve as baseline for Project implementation; (iv) conduct studies
on cultural beliefs and stigmas associated with HIV/AIDS and help define appropriate BCC
strategies to mitigate their impact; and (v) develop guidelines and standards for VCT.

Slow the expansion o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The project would help the MOH: (i)                finalize
and disseminate STI treatment guidelines and syndromic case management through technical
assistance and workshops; (ii)train health professionals to implement the new STI case
management guidelines; (iii)prepare and disseminate a manual on the management of
opportunistic infections (technical assistance and workshops); (iv) support the expansion to five
provinces o f PMTCT interventions, including dissemination o f manuals, training o f staff and
procurement o f drugs; (v) develop a logistics system for the implementation o f national safe
blood policy; and (vi) install VCT centers inhealth centers and general hospitals in about seven
provinces, including provision o f equipment andtraining incounseling.

Mitigate the impact o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic on persons, families and society. The project
would help the MOH: (i)      develop IEC messages and undertake mass media campaigns to reduce
stigma; and (ii)develop guidelines and train health staff and civil society organizations to
provide palliative care, psycho-social and spiritual support to patients.

Malaria. InOctober 2004, the government was inits final stages of negotiation with the GF for
a financing o f about US$38 million for the prevention and treatment o f malaria. Under that
program, it i s expected that over a three-year period: (i)          60 percent o f the population at risk


28 Includes contingencies
29 Communications equipment andper diem for staff for data collection


                                                      39

would benefit from effective malaria treatment; (ii) percent of pregnant women attending
                                                          70
antenatal services would receive intermittent preventive treatment; (iii)     40 percent of children
under 5 years old and pregnant women would use insecticide-treated bednets; (iv) the provinces
o f Namibe, Cunene, Huila, and Huambo would have an epidemic response capacity; and (v)
quality assurance for microscopy would have been established in 50 percent o f municipal
hospitals. As a result, none o fthese activities would be financed by HAMSET.

The project, however, includes a few activities not financed by the GF. It would: (i)            train
coordinators inoperational management, including programming, budgeting and supervision; (ii)
finalize and disseminate the new guidelines for diagnosis, case management, and entomological
studies; (iii)develop guidelines for the integration o f malaria treatment into reproductive health
programs; and (iv) train trainers from M O H staff, nursing and medical schools, and NGOs to
implement case management guidelines.

Tuberculosis. The project would help: (i)        strengthen the TB national program; (ii) up scale
DOTS coverage; and(iii)     integrate TB and HIV interventions.

Strengthen the TB national prog-am. The project would: (i)     support an international TB specialist
to provide regular technical assistance and training o f M O H staff; (ii) support annual workshops
to complete the preparation of DOTS guidelines and disseminate them; (iii)        help prepare norms
and guidelines for laboratory diagnosis; (iv) prepare and distribute quarterly record sheets,
laboratory registers, patient treatment, and drugrequisition records; (v) train trainers on DOTS at
the national level; and (vi) strengthen DOTS supervision at the provincial level3'.

Scale up DOTS coverage. The project would help: (i) provincial health staff (through
                                                              train
appropriate partners such as NGOs or UNagencies); (ii)       rehabilitate selected laboratories for TB
diagnosis; (iii)  improve logistical capacity to plan, procure, and distribute TB drugs; and (iv)
provide laboratory equipment andreagents for diagnosis.

Integrate TB and HIV/AIDS interventions. The project would help the MOH: (i)develop
guidelines for symptom-based TB screening o f HIV+individuals identifiedinVCT services; (ii)
train health staff inthe application o f guidelines; (iii) community-based organizations inTB
                                                         train
awareness to support DOTS; and (iv) create VCT services for HIV/AIDS testing o f TB patients
infive TB hospitals.

Project Component 3 - Community Response (US$19.7 million31,of which IDA: US$7.0
million). The project would finance community-based initiatives to help address the challenges
posed by the HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB epidemics at the local level. Community subprojects
would be analyzed and approved using eligibility and appraisal criteria defined in the
Operational Manual. A menu of eligible subprojects would be defined. Examples o f possible
subprojects include training o f community volunteers and peer educators, voluntary counseling
and testing, provision o f psychological support and home-based care to PLWHA, support to
orphans and vulnerable children, promotion o f income-generating activities for families who lose
their main source o f support, capacity building for identification of HIV/AIDS, STD, TB, and


30Includingthe provisionof motorcycles andper diem
31Includes contingencies


                                                   40

malaria, and community response. Subprojects may also cover reduction o f stigma related to
H N / A I D S through IEC campaigns, promotion o f safer sexual behavior and appropriate social
marketingof condoms, advocacy for human and legal rights protection for PLWHA, promotion
of malaria prevention and distribution of bed nets, and capacity building for civil society
organizations. Subproject proposals would be invited at least twice a year to achieve efficiency
inthe management ofthis component, includingcapacity building,monitoring, and supervision.

Project Component 4 - Project Coordination (US$4.8 million32,of which IDA: US$4.8
million). The project would help: (i) the establishment o fProvincial AIDS and Endemic
                                       support
Diseases Committees (a national commission was established by the government in 2003); (ii)
contract professionals for the PCU; (iii) rehabilitate office space and provide office equipment
and materials necessary to coordinate the Project; (iv) provide technical assistance for Project
coordination and implementation; (v) supervise Project activities (including transport and per
diem); (vi) contract accounting and procurement services; (vii) support participation in
intemational seminars and workshops; (viii) contract external auditors; (ix) develop management
and information systems, monitoring and evaluation systems including collection and analysis o f
data related to inputs, outputs and outcomes, conduct o f specific studies; (x) train PCU and MOH
staff inproject implementation; and (xi) prepare mid-term review.




32 Includes contingencies



                                                41

                                 Annex 5: ProjectCosts
            ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                       -



      Project

Public Sector Response                        2.1        0.2

Health Sector Response                        3.3        4.9     8.2

Community Response                            5.6        1.5     7.1

Project Coordination                          2.4        2.4     4.8

Activities Financedby Other Donors33          5.9        9.0     14.9

 TotalBaselineCost                           19.3        18.0    37.3

   PhysicalContingencies                      0.7        0.4     1.1

   PriceContingencies                         0.7        0.5      1.2

            Total ProjectCosts               20.7        18.9    39.6

            TotalFinancingRequired           20.7        18.9    39.6




33Details inAnnex 2


                                          42

                          Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
           ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                       -

A. Institutional Arrangements. The following institutions are involved in the design and
implementation o f the government's program to control HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB.




         w \            NCAED           Ll
                                                                     Technical
               I                 \ /                           Subcommittee C C M
         HAMSET                 Executive                          andHAMSET
           PCU                 Secretariat




n
L.ational HIV/AIDS and Endemic Diseases Commission (NCAED). Created in early 2003,
the NCAED was established by the government under the chairmanship o f the President o f
Angola. The membershipofthe commission includes ministers ofkey line ministries.


Country CoordinatingMechanism(CCM). The CCM was established in 2002 to prepare the
GF proposal. It is composed of five line ministries, eight intemational agencies, and seven
NGOs. The current Chairman i s the Vice Minister of Health.

The Technical Subcommittee o f the C C M (TS) will approve Community Response subprojects.
The TS would have a maximum o f 10 representatives. The PCU Director and the M O H
Technical Program Directors would be permanent members. The other six members would be
from the C C M member organizations, Le. line ministries, civil society and donors (includingUN
agencies). They would be from among the operational or technical staff of these organizations.
The Chair o f the TS would be selected by the members for a 12month's term. Having the TS in
place and operational with members appointed i s a condition o f effectiveness.

The Executive Secretariat. The purpose of the Secretariat is to provide secretarial services to
the NCAED and the CCM. The Secretariat will receive technical inputs and documents from the
HAMSET PCU, the Technical Subcommittee o f the CCM, the Local Recipient o f the Global
Fund, and technical departments o f the MOH and other line ministries. Its purpose is to help the
government coordinate the implementation o f its national strategy to prevent and control




                                              43

HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis and ensure the complementarity o f the support that it
receives from donors such as the World Bank, the Global Fund, bilateral andmultilateral donors.

The Secretariat would be staffed with an Executive Secretary and an Assistant Executive
secretary plus support staff. The mission recommends that the Secretariat be created within the
next 3 months, if the appropriate candidates can be recruited soon. Until its creation, the
hnctions o fthe Secretariat will be provided by the HAMSETProject Coordinating Unit (PCU).

Project Coordination.A PCUis being setup. The PCUrespondsto the Vice Minister o fHealth.
The PCU has a Project Director (in place since February 2004), Deputy Director (filly
responsible for the community response component) (in place since June 2004) and i s in the
process o f recruiting about seven professionals to help implementthe project. The responsibility
for each o f the project's three maincomponents would be attributed to one o f the professionals.
Also part o f the team would be specialists for monitoring and evaluation, IEC, and capacity
development as well as private sector coordinator.


                                            Director PCU


                                   I       Deputy Director
                                     (Community ResponseCoordinator)



                                                                                      1
                                                    I




           (Public                                                  Development    Private Sector
           Sector                                                    Specialist    Coordinator
         Response)                                              1    Capacity


                         Response)
    4    Other Support
              7        1

For the public sector response (component l), participating line ministry and local
                                                      each
government agency would establish an inter-ministryHIV/AIDS team that would be responsible
to develop and implement a plan o f action. The ministries would have a full-time focal point
supported, as required, by technical assistance to be arranged by the PCU. They would present
proposals to the PCU for financing. For the health sector response component, the PCU would
have a coordinator who would work in close collaboration with the technical staff o f the M O H
(for planning, technical specifications, protocols etc.). In the case o f community response
(component 3), the PCU would receive subproject proposals from civil society organizations,
local and international NGOs, appraise them and submit them to the Technical Subcommittee o f
the C C M for approval on a regular basis.



                                                 44

At the provincial level, the Provincial Committee on HIV/AIDS would submit its multi-sector
programs and proposals to the PCU for approval o f the Technical Subcommittee (TS) and
financing. Provincial proposals would be approved on an annual basis. A number o f provincial
programs are already under preparationwith the help o f the donor and NGO communities.
Community subproject proposals would be approved by the TS o f the CCM. The memberso f the
panel would be the relevant operational heads o f their organizations so that they can meet at least
on a monthly basis. The quorum requiredfor the meetingwould be at least seven members.
The Chairperson o f the TS would have a mandate o f 12 months on a rotational basis. The
Chairperson would be responsible to present implementation progress to the C C M and N T C bi-
annually, or as needed.
The key responsibilities o fthe PCUwould be to:

           carry out the procurement o f technical assistance, goods and services as supported by
           the project;
           coordinate the disbursement o f funds from the Bank and other donors and its
           subsequent disbursement to the project beneficiaries and contractors through the
           services of a Financial and Procurement Management Unit (FPMU);
           provide support to the participating line ministries and help the ministries that are
           planning to join the Project;
           coordinate and support provincial HIV/AIDS commissions;
           coordinate operational research, studies, assessments, surveys, and study tours and
           publish and disseminate final reports incollaborationwith the M O Htechnical staff;
           carry out major national level sensitization and mobilization workshops and seminars;
           set benchmarks for performance;
           provide necessary inputs to the FPMUto regularlyupdatethe procurement plan;
           prepare quarterly project implementationprogress reports;
           organize bi-annual meetings to report on implementation progress including financial
           matters, identifyissues andproblems, andpropose solutions; and
           organize periodic meetings o f participating line ministries to review implementation
           progress and agree on remedial actions, as well as review and coordinate the Annual
           Work Plans developed by the line ministries for approval; and

Contractingof Financialand ProcurementManagementUnit. The project would finance the
contracting o f a firm to provide accounts management and procurement management services to
the PCU. The FPMU would be contracted because o f limited accounting and procurement
capacity in the government. It would help process the large number of community subproject
expected, provide support in the management o f local currency accounts by participating line
ministries (including the MOH), local governments, and the PCU. This i s a similar arrangement
to the one used by the government under the Angola Emergency Demobilization and
Reintegration Project.
B. Implementation Arrangements. The following section summarizes key implementation
arrangements by components.



                                                45

Public-Sector Response Component, The key responsibility o f coordinating all participating
non-health line ministries would be with the Public Sector Response Coordinator in the PCU.
The Coordinator would be responsible to help participating line ministries in the planning
process and facilitate the implementation o fministerial plans.
Each participating line ministry would constitute an HIV/AIDS team that would prepare the
ministerial plan. A full-time focal point person would be nominated by each ministry and the
project would finance necessary equipment, renovation o f a HIV/AIDS center or room at the
national level, logistical support as well as services o f technical professionals as needed.
The Public Sector Response Coordinator would identifythe necessary procurement and financial
needs for the ministries and coordinate appropriate actions to be taken by the FPMU.
Health Sector Response Component. Implementation o f this component would be the
responsibility o f the Health Sector Response Coordinator, who would work closely with the
technical staff of the MOH. The group leader would ensure that the project activities are
implemented as scheduled, the action plan updated regularly, and proper coordination
established with the FPMU.

Community Response Component. The PCU would contract out the community mobilization
andcapacitybuildingtask to one or more eligible NGOs and CBOs. Successful NGOs and CBOs
would develop a mobilization strategy and action plan and form community level HIV/AIDS
committees. These committees would receive training in community development subproject
planning, preparation and implementation. They would identify activities and prepare subproject
proposals targeting various beneficiary groups within and around the communities. Contracted
NGOs and CBOs would provide technical assistance to the committees throughout the subproject
life, and play a facilitation role between the community groups and the PCU. Guidingprinciples
for the community grants are presented below.
Principles of community-grants funding. Community grants subproject proposals would be
developed in a participatory manner by CBOs, FBOs, the private sector, and local and
international NGOs. They would adhere to the following principles:

     0  Enhancing the opportunity for self-reliance o f communities to deal with HIV/AIDS,
        whether for prevention, care or mitigationhupport;
     0  Strengthening local capacity to implement andmanage community based activities;
     0  Promoting awareness and sensitivity for gender equity and the protection o f vulnerable
        groups (e.g. PLWHA andtheir dependents);
     0  Maximizing grass root participation insubproject activity implementation; and
     0  Ensuring that community subproject proposals would bewell suited for local needs.
Eligibility criteria for implementingpartners. Only organized community groups and NGOs
would be eligible for grant funding. These groups should:

     0  Beanorganizedcommunity group with a formal structure;
     0  Have a clear idea about what they can deliver related to HIV/AIDS,malaria or TB;
     0  Have a reasonable number o fbeneficiaries inthe community;
     0  Have the representation and acceptability o f their subproject's beneficiaries;
     0  Be able to present access to assets, i.e. community infrastructure (community hall,
        school, health facility, refugee camp facility, mosque or church etc.) where possible;


                                                   46

    0  Have the ability to enter into an agreement either by itself or through a pre-qualified
       surrogate; and
    0  Have some level o f literacy and be able to demonstrate the ability to keep subproject
       records (like a cashbook).
Eligibility criteria for intermediaries. Intermediaries are the CBOs, CSOs, NGOs and the
private sector organizations who undertake `supply-driven' initiatives. They can receive funds to
finance their subproject proposals and provide various services to grass root level organizations
or community groups. To be eligible for fundingthey should:
       Be a legal national or international organization registered or holding a permit to work in
       Angola;
       Have the ability to enter into a legal agreement with the PCU either in its own right or
       through a pre-qualified surrogate;
       Have experience incarrying out community subprojects nationally or internationally;
       Be an organized group with a formal management structure includingfull-time financial,
       procurement, and social development personnel. Personnel having experience in
       HIV/AIDS, malaria or TB or basic health care initiatives would be an added advantage;
       Have representation and acceptability o f the communities where they want to implement
        subprojects;
       Have a clear idea about what they can deliver related to HIV/AIDS, malaria or TB within
       the scope ofHAMSET. Scaling up o fongoing programswould have priority;
       Prove confirmed access to assets which may include use o f office facilities, personnel,
       means o ftransport, audio and video equipment;
        Have field offices inAngola (thiswould be considered an added advantage); and
        Make any direct or indirect contribution in cash or in kind (including staff time, office
        overhead) to the subproject.
Community HIV/AIDS committee. A community subproject applicant (a grass-root
community group) would organize a community-level HIV/AIDS committee. HIV/AIDS
committees established under the National HIVIAIDS Program would be used. The subproject
committee would include people who can lead, inspire the community or its target groups,
organize and administer, manage funds, purchase and appropriately use materials, solve
problems, and find ways to keep the subproject going after the end o f financial assistance under
the project.
The group or committee:

    0   Would be elected openly and democratically by the entire community;
    0   Would last for the duration o f the community subproject without re-election o f its key
        members, unless needed;
    0   Wouldhave members who are respectedandtrusted bythe community;
    0   The committee would comprise a minimumo f 10people with at least 50 percent women
        members. It would have the following positions: a chairperson, a secretary, a treasurer,
        andother additional members.
The committeewould:
    0   Informthe community about progress andproblems;
    0   Seek the community's advice;


                                               47

    0    Identify community problems and complaints related to the subproject record, and
         address them;
    0    Keep contact with extension workers and district authorities;
    0    Prepare an activity implementation progress record;
    0    Maintain an activity expenditure cash book and receipts; and
    0    Allocate tasks among its members so that responsibilities are well distributed.
Role of influentialpeople, local leadersandpoliticians.It i s not necessary that the community
leader be the committee chairperson, but it i s necessary for the leader to:

    0    Fullysupport the subproject activities intheir community;
    0    Be involved inthe subproject;
    0    Use influence to settle disputes; and
    0    Contact authorities for assistance and help, as needed.
Fundingof CommunityandCivilSociety Initiatives. Component 3 would finance community
and civil society subprojects. The applicants would submit their proposals to the PCU for
appraisal and approval by the Technical Subcommittee o f the CCM. Invitation for the
submissiono f subproject proposals would be announced inthe public mediaat least twice a year.
Once proposals are technically appraised by the PCU and approved by the Technical
Subcommittee o f the CCM, the PCUwould authorize the FPMUto disburse finds directly to the
beneficiary according to guidelines included inthe Operational Manual.
Funding of Provincial Government Plans. At the provincial level, once the provincial
HIV/AIDScommittees have approved their provincial HIV/AIDS plans and fiduciary capacity is
ensured, funds would be releasedby the PCUto finance selected components that are within the
scope o f HAMSET. The FPMU would help provincial committees develop and strengthen this
capacity.
Key Contracts.The PCUwould sign contracts with non-government entities andMemorandums
o f Understanding with government entities. Since the objective o f HAMSET financing i s to
tackle the HIV/AIDS epidemic by using exceptional means, the following contracts and MOUs
are expected to ensure a feasible, efficient and a fast response.
Contracts:


              0   PCU staff (multiple contracts)
              0   External auditor for project finds (one contract)
              0   Financial and Procurement Management Unit (one contract)
              0   Social marketingo f condoms (single or multiple contracts)
              0   Civil society organizations, private sector and local and international NGOs.
                  (multiple contracts)


Memorandumo fUnderstanding (MOUs)


              0   Social Action Fund(FAS)34


34Still under discussion


                                                   48

0 Participatingline ministries
0 Government utility service entities
0 Provincial governments/municipalities




                                   49

                Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
              ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                            -


CountryFinancialIssues. A combined Public Expenditure Management and Country Financial
Accountability Review (PEMFAR) for Angola was undertaken in June 2004. It highlights the
existence o f major institutional weaknesses which have aggravated the country's weak fiscal
stance. Unexplained discrepancies between stated government funds and actual revenue
amounted to 3 percent o f GDP in 2002 (the latest available numbers during the review), or
US$347 million. The review further concluded that the pervasive deficiencies in the country's
public financial management impaired good macro economic management. The situation i s
exacerbated by the existence o f a dual public expenditure system, where "conventional"
expenditures are processed by the National Treasury Directorate, while "unconventional"
expenditures, aimed at facilitating transactions such as the servicing o f key external debt, i s
centered around the national oil company, Sonangol. The review recommends the
discontinuation o f the `parallel' spending process, as the underlying reasons for its emergence
are no longer valid. The review also makes some proposals for the way forward: (i)
strengtheningthe "conventional" mechanisms of budget execution: (ii)          `ring-fencing' o f the so-
callednon-conventional mechanisms; and (iii)      eventually phasing out the latter.

The PEMFAR also commends the government's efforts to make the system work better.
Progress on the Government IFMIS (Integrated Financial Management Information System- or
SIGFE in Portuguese - Sistema Integrado de Gestgo das Finanqas do Estado) is slow, but it is
gradually being rolled out to budget units and will eventually be the cornerstone o f the public
financial management system inthe country.

A new Accounting Law and Chart o f Accounts is being promulgated, but the process o f
implementation i s far from complete. Lastly, the review notes that `audit and control' systems,
although regulated by law, do not operate inpractice. The National Inspectorate o f Finance needs
to be strengthened.

Discussion with the longest established professional accounting firm in the country (KPMG)
gave valuable insight into the accounting professionals market. Indications are that the market
for qualified accounting professionals i s very thin, leading to a pricey competition for those that
are available. The large oil sector attracts the best accountants available locally and from the
regional markets, and also recruits in Portugal and Brazil. The non-oil private sector takes the
next `notch' from that pool o f accountants, and finally the public sector resorts to those who are
left. It i s generally felt that financial management is ina slightly better position than procurement
interms ofavailable humanresources, but for bothdisciplines, the numberofqualifiedAngolans
i s limited.

The country i s just coming out o f a `command' economy where accounting was not given
prominence, with the nearest degree qualification available being in economics, and in
management. New universities are being set up, which are offering accounting as a major. It will
take time, however, untila significant number o fnew graduates come on the market.


                                                  50

By June 2004, only KPMG had an Angolan base, other firms sending staff from their South
Africa and Portugal offices for their Angola contracts. The `big four' accounting firms now all
have resident offices inLuanda. This i s a positive development for the profession ingeneral.

There is no formal accounting body at the national level, although the government is in the
process o f setting one up. The blueprint for this was prepared by a government-appointed
committee set up in2002 for the purpose. Its recommendations, as refined by the MOF, are now
awaiting presentationto Cabinet.

The government has contracted Emst and Young to develop a new chart o f accounts to replace
the old one. The new chart, adopted in 2001 but only effective in 2003, i s adapted to
Intemational Accounting Standards and requires greater accounting disclosures than the old one.
The new regulations require entities with assetshumover greater than US$1 million to submit
annual audited accounts to the government. However, this requirement is still largely ignored,
and the government does not yet have the means to enforce these regulations.




                                                 51

                                  Summary RiskAssessment



Topic                                    Risk     Commentdrecommendations
                                     Assessment'

InherentRisk

                                          S       Low financial management capacity
                                                  ingeneral. Mitigatedbyuse of
                                                  advisors.
                                          M       Low in-house capacity. Mitigated by
                                                  use o f FPMU.
Overall Inherent Risk                     S

ControlRisk

Implementing Entity                       M       Low capacity mitigatedby use o f
                                                  FPMU.Procedure manuals to be
                                                  develoDed.
FundsFlow                                 N       Banking system appears adequate.
                                                  Proposed flows not complicated.
Staffing                                Mto S     Not enough qualified staffhandling
                                                  project financial matters but to be
                                                  mitigatedby use o f the FPMU.
Accounting Policies and Procedures        M       To be designed afi-eshby the FPMU,
                                                  but some country guidance being
                                                  promulgated.
Internal Audit                            M       N o IA department. Activity included
                                                  inTORSfor the FPMU.
External Audit                            N       Internationalaccounting- firms have
                                                  opened resident offices inAngola,
                                                  unlike inthe past when they sent
                                                  staff from South Afi-ica and
                                                  Portugal.
FinancialReportingand Monitoring          M       Although the FMRs are still to be
                                                  designed, reporting will be handled
                                                  bythe outsourced FPMU.
Information Systems                               Systemto be designed by the
                                                  FPMU.



OverallRiskAssessment: Substantial                                                    I
1/Key: H= High
        S = Substantial
        M=Moderate
        N=Negligible or low
        NIA =Not Applicable



                                            52

Overview of the proposed Financial Management Arrangements. The project would be
implemented primarily by the MOH, through a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). The PCU
Coordinator i s the Director o f Planning in the Ministry. H e i s assisted by a full-time Deputy
Coordinator, in charge o f the project on a day-to-day basis, in addition to having the
responsibilityfor the Community Response component. This Deputy Coordinator has previously
worked for the first Health sector project and is well experienced in Bank procedures.
Coordinators for the Public Sector Response component and Health Sector Response component
were beingcontracted inOctober 2004.

Accounting and Financial Management are still developing in Angola, more so for government
ministries. For this reason, the project intends not to use the Government o f Angola's systems
but instead resort to the use o f a Financial Management and ProcurementUnit (consulting firm).
This i s similar to the approach used for the Angola Emergency Demobilization and
Rehabilitation Project, that has worked reasonably well to date.

The PCU has contracted an Accountant during the period o f the PPF, who had previously
worked for the Health Sector project. Although he i s expected to cope with the PPF comfortably,
he will require the back up and assistance o f the FPMU in executing the financial management
(FM) requirementsof the full IDA financing. He will act as the intemal contact for the FPMU,
and will be the focal point o f the FPMU's humancapacity buildingefforts.

The PCU's accounting and intemal control systems will be developed by the Accountant, and
will be strengthened by the FPMU when it is established. The PCU will operate on a simple
spreadsheet based accounting system for the PPF, but a more conventional accounting software
will be developed for the full IDA financing by the outsourced FPMU.

The project will be subject to an annual audit by an independent auditor to be hired on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. There will be no formal intemal audit, as the MOH's
Inspection Department is unlikely to be available to the project. However, TORSo f the FPMU
will include a requirement to periodically carry out intemal checks, and provide FM-related
training to subprojects and other recipients o fproject funds.

The project will be required to produce Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs). Duringappraisal,
the Bank's FM Specialist has assisted the project to come up with acceptable formats o f the
reports that will be presented to the Bank by negotiations. The FMRs produced will initially be
for reporting purposes only, as the project will use traditional disbursement methods.
Considerationto move to report based disbursement will be made indue course, as the quality o f
project reporting improves. The FMRswill include as a minimumthe following:

    (i)     Project Sources and Uses o fFunds;
    (ii)    Uses o f Funds by Project Activity/Category;
    (iii)   Physicalproject progress reporting; and
    (iv)    Procurement Monitoring Reports.

Conclusion.The proposed financial management arrangements for the project meet the Bank's
minimumrequirements for financial management.


                                                 53

FinancialManagementAction Plan

Negotiations.The format and content o fFMRswas agreedbefore negotiations.

Effectiveness.The following activities would be completedbefore effectiveness o fthe project:

   (i)      contracting o f a Financial and Procurement Management Unit;and
   (ii)     demonstration o f the ability to produce the agreed FMRs (at the time o f the initial
            advance).
Other. While not conditions o f effectiveness, the following time bound actions would be
completed inthe timeframes indicated for smoother project implementation:

    (i) preparationoftheFinancialManagementManual(threemonthsaftereffectiveness);
            and
    (ii) acquisition and installation of new accounting software (six months after
            effectiveness).

FinancialCovenantsand SupervisionPlan.The following covenants relate to financial matters
and form part o f the Development Grant Agreement:

    (i)     the government will cause the PCU to have its records, accounts and financial
            statements audited each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending
            2005; and
    (ii) the PCU will submit quarterly FMRs, starting with the first quarter after
            effectiveness.

Supervision Plan. Project implementation progress reports will be reviewed in detail during
supervision missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the field- based FMS and
the results or issues followed up during supervision missions. The project's audit reports will be
reviewed and issues identified will be followed up. The field-based FMS will monitor the agreed
action planto ensure its implementationby the project.

ImplementationSchedule. The project would be a Sector Investment Grant under IDA' s MAP
for the Africa Region and i s in accordance with the Bank's regional HIV/AIDS strategy
"Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDSinAfrica: Respondingto a Development Crisis".

DisbursementandFlow of Funds

Flow of Funds. The project will operate a US$ Special Account, from which eligible
expenditureswill be paid. The account will be heldina commercial bank acceptable to the Bank,
and payments can be made inAngola inUS$. The authorized allocation for the Special Account
will be US$800,000. Counterpart finds will be housed in a Project Account in local currency.
The initial deposit from the government will be US$200,000. Initial advances to sub-projects
will be made from the SA. When the PCU receives the related expenditure justifications




                                                 54

(supporting documentation), subsequent advances can be processed from the SA. Meantime,
replenishment o fthe SA will proceed against SOEs under the subprojects.

Disbursements.Disbursements from the grant will be made based on traditional disbursement
methods (ie., from the Special Account with reimbursements, and use o f Statements of
Expenditures(SOEs), documentation retained at the PCU, as well as direct payments from the
Grant Account where appropriate). FMRsproducedwill essentially be a reporting tool untilsuch
time that the quality o f reporting i s deemed sufficiently highto support replenishment requests.




                                                   55

                   Annex 8: ProcurementandDisbursementArrangements
            ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                        -

A. General

Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). A CPAR was completed in July 2002.
The main conclusions were that the system o f public procurement and its management, and the
environment in which the private sector i s evolving, were in a situation which could hardly be
defined as acceptable. This i s due to: (i)
                                          the fragmentation, duplication and shortcomings o f the
legal framework; (ii)  the lack o f capacity and adequate procedures in the public and private
sectors; and (iii)
                 poor procurement practices coupled with a lack of enforcement o fregulations.

Initiativestaken by the Government. The govemment has shown a long-overdue willingness
to optimize the use o f public resources and increase transparency in the procurement process.
The current dynamic o f new Bank-financedprojects such as FAS 111, Emergency Demobilization
and Reintegration, HAMSET and others under preparationmight achieve, inthe mediumto long
term, the setting o f a more efficient and transparent management system in the institutions in
charge o f public procurement. Past experience in Bank-financed projects such as the FAS Iand
Health project closed in 1999 has not been always positive, though FAS I1 has shown
improvement inthe overall management and supervision o fprocurement.

Proposed Procurement Reform. The CPAR recommended a number o f short and medium
range actions to achieve results inprocurement management. These include: (i) replacement
                                                                                 the
o f obsolete regulations with a new set o f comprehensive procurement laws; (ii) the drafting o f a
new set o f bidding documents and contracts consistent with international practice; (iii)     the
training o f governmental staff engaged in management and procurement; and (iv) drastic
improvements in the area o f financial controls and monitoring, including the drafting o f a
uniform code o f ethics for public sector employees. A procurement reform i s currently underway
under EMTA (MOF component) that will help establish a soundnew procurement legislation. In
October 2004, the selection of consultants for the procurement reform was ongoing. A new
Procurement Law and Implementing Rules and Regulations, together with a set o f standard
bidding documents for the procurement o f goods, works and consulting services is expected to
be draftedbyDecember 2005.

ProcurementCapacity.An assessment o fthe procurement capacity o fthe implementingagency
was carried out inM a y 2004. The assessment report (included inthe Project Files) showed that
the MOHwould not be capable to implement the project without an immediate reinforcement o f
its procurement and financial management staff. To that effect, the government agreed to: (i)
recruit national procurement and financial management staff to assist the MOH during the PPF
period; (ii) contract an international firm for the management o f the financial management and
procurement (FPMU) during the project; and (iii)    implement a program of capacity buildingfor
the key staff managing the project. The FPMUwould manage the project for at least the first two
years or untilPCU staff (to be trained under the FPMU contract) is capable to do so on its own.
The selection process for the contracting o f the FPMU started in October 2006 and should be




                                                 56

finalized  by project effectiveness. The Deputy Project Coordinator, with international
procurement experience, i s managingthe selection process for the FMPU.

Use of Bank Guidelines. Procurement for the proposed HAMSET project will be carried out in
accordance with: (i) Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
                     the
dated May 2004; (ii)   "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and (iii) provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The
                                        the
Operational Manualwill include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the standard bidding
documents to be used for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for works and
goods procured. For each contract to be financed by the grant, the different procurement methods
or consultant selection methods, the estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame
are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project team inthe Procurement Plan. The latter
will be updated at least annually to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Advertising. The Borrower will advertise bidding and consulting opportunities based on
procedures described inthe paragraph 2.7 o fthe Bank Procurement Guidelines (dated May 2004)
for goods and works and paragraph 2.5 o fthe Guidelines for the selection and use o f Consultants
(dated M a y 2004). A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and issued upon
Board approval in "dgMarket" online. It will include a listing o f all goods, services and works
contracts to be tendered by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) as well as consulting
services above US$lOO,OOO      to obtain expressions o f interest and draw up pools o f solid
candidate firms from which to complete the shortlists. The shortlist would be prepared not less
than eight weeks after the GPN has been published. The GPNwill be updated annually. Specific
Procurement Notices (SPN) for goods and works and Invitations for Bid (IFB) for consulting
services will be advertised in the national press o f wide circulation but also in "UNDB online"
and "dgMarket" online. Requests for Expression o f Interest (EOI) will be published in the
national gazette or national newspapers. EOIs for contracts expected to cost more than
US$200,000 will also be advertised inUNDBonline and dgMarket. Adequate time (not less than
30 days for most goods and consulting services under the project) would be allowed to obtain the
biddingdocuments and Requests for Proposals (RFPs). Inthe case ofmore complex assignments
such as the selection o fthe FPMU, 45 days would be allowed for the short-listed firms to prepare
their offers.

Procurement of Works. Constructions works under the project are small and locatedinremote
areas. They include rehabilitation works for structures under the health sector component such as
voluntary counseling and testing centers, rehabilitation o f laboratories in PHC facilities, and
minor works for the establishment o f the office facilities for the PCU, and possibly the FPMU.
The total amount o fworks is expected to be about US$1.5 million. Only a very small number o f
contracts may be packaged together expected with an estimated contract amount o f less than
US$400,000. These relatively large contracts (for Angola standards) would be awarded
following national competitive bidding(NCB). Simpler procurement methods such as requesting
quotations from not less than three bidders, would be used for most o f the civil works contracts
given their estimated value o f less than US$150,0000 equivalent. Procurement will be done
usingsimplified standard biddingdocuments to be preparedby the FPMUand to be approvedby
the Bank, for N C B and Quotations.



                                                57

Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under the project will include motor vehicles and
motorcycles to support supervision under the health sector component, laboratory equipment,
kits and reagents also underthe health component, office equipment and furniture for the Project
Coordination component and stationery for a total o f US$4.8 million. Procurement would be
done using the Bank's SBD for all international contracts under I C B and LIB. Simplified
standard bidding documents and request forms will also be used for N C B and shopping (both
international and national). Goods would be packaged whenever feasible into contracts larger
than US$lOO,OOO in order to attract more competition and advantageous prices for the client.
Goods would be procured by the PCU at the central level, and delivered to MOH warehouses in
Luanda. The MOH would then deliver the goods to each provincial office through its regular
delivery services. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used only for the few
contracts with a value o f more than US$200,000 equivalent. ICB would be advertised through a
General Procurement Notice (GPN) to be published after negotiations. National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) would be used for all contracts below US$200,000 equivalent using standard
documents satisfactory to the Bank. Shopping (both national andinternational) would be used for
most contracts below the individual threshold o f US$50,000. Procedures for shopping are
described insection 3.5 o f the Guidelines and are based on a comparison o f at least three written
quotations from different suppliers. Requests for quotations would include specifications,
delivery time, cost o f transport and warranty requirements. As an altemative to shopping, the
services o f the U.N International Agency Procurement Services Unit (IAPSO), UNFPA,
UNICEF, and WHO may be used for vehicles, office equipment and other equipment up to a
value o f US$lOO,OOO equivalent. Direct Contracting (sole source) would be used only in
situations consistent with section 3.6 o f the Bank' Procurement Guidelines such as for contract
extension, standardization of equipment and spare parts, and exceptional cases subject to Bank
prior review.

Procurement of Subprojects. Community response subproject procurement would follow the
provisions o f paragraph 3.15 of the guidelines and would be in accordance with the procedures
specified in the Operational Manual and in the subproject agreements to be signed with
applicants. A sample contract would be provided in the Operational Manual. It i s expected that
simple quotatiodshopping and direct purchase procedures,                including procedures for
"Community Participation in Procurement", would be extensively used. To ensure fiduciary
compliance, each subproject agreement would indicate how the performance of the subproject
would be supervised, including payment modalities.

Training Programs. These are geared towards building capacity, information sessions and
improving management and staff skills. Training programs would be part o f the Project's Annual
Work Plans, to be prepared in accordance with procedures specified in the Operational Manual.
Some Community Response subprojects may also finance purely training. The selection o f
training institutions for training and workshops would be based on a competitive process using
the quality-based method o f selection. One o f the tasks to be carried out by the FPMUwill be the
traininginfinancial management andprocurement o f at least two MOH staff inorder for them to
take over the financial and procurement management of the project after the first two years o f
implementation, ifpossible.




                                                 58

Selection of Consultants.Based on the expression o f interest received after the advertisement
for the project, short lists o f consultants would be established for most consulting services.
Services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract would be composed
entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the
Consultant Guidelines. The selection method for assignments above the US$100,000 equivalent
would be the "Quality and Cost Based'' (QCBS) selection method described in the Bank
Consultants Guidelines section 11. As an alternative, for contracts for routine assignments, for
which well-established practices and standards exist, such as auditing contracts and works
engineering services, the "Least-Cost" (LS) selection method would be used, in accordance with
section 3.6 o f the Consultants Guidelines. In the case o f small contracts for firms below the
threshold o f US$lOO,OOO for which a long selection process may not be justified, the selection
method based on Consultant's QuaZiJications (CQ) would be used, following procedures stated in
section 3.7 o f the Guidelines. Selection o f individual consultants would also be based on a
comparison o f qualifications and would follow the procedures described inthe Section V o f the
Consultants Guidelines.

Selectionof UNAgencies andNGOs.Contracts such as those for which UNagencies may have
specialized knowledge (that private sector firms do not have) may be awarded to UN agencies
either through competition with other UN agencies or through direct contracting in accordance
with Bank Consultants Guidelines sections 3.9 and 3.15. As a general rule, UN organizations
would not receive preferential treatment apart from immunities and privileges granted to their
staff under existing conventions, inaddition to special payment arrangements required according
to the Agencies' charter. Similar procedures, described in section 3.16 o f the Guidelines, may
apply to specialized NGOs and shortlists formed by NGOs only. Selection would take into
account the unique qualifications o f the NGO such as local knowledge in various provinces,
specific skills and reputation inthe sector. As inthe case o f the UNorganizations, the Borrower
may select an NGO on a sole source basis if criteria under section 3.9 o f the Guidelines are
satisfied.

OperatingCosts. Operating costs to be financed under the project would be procured usingthe
M O H administrative procedures reviewedand found acceptable to the Bank.


B. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Generalconclusions. Procurement activities would be carried out by the MOH. An assessment
of the capacity o f the Ministry to implement procurement actions for the project was carried out
at pre-appraisal in May 2004. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for
implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for
procurement and the Ministry's relevant central unit for administration and finance.

The assessment (included inthe Project Files) showed that there was no qualified staff within the
M O H capable to undertake project implementation for the project in accordance to Bank
procurement guidelines. The capacity o f the MOH has been therefore strengthened since then by
recruiting a Deputy Project Coordinator, with experience in international procurement, who i s
currently assisting inthe contracting of a Financial Management and Procurement Unit (FPMU).
The FPMU, whose recruitment is a condition o f effectiveness, would include an experienced



                                                59

international procurement consultant who would assist the PCU for the two first years o f the
contract, subject to extension o f services.

ProcurementImplementationRisks.The issues andrisks concerningprocurement as evaluated
at pre-appraisal include: (i) o f a national procurement legislation; (ii)
                               lack                                             possible lack o f
transparency in contract award procedures and (iii)    the lack of qualified staff knowledgeable
about soundprocurement practices.

The corrective measures agreed upon during pre-appraisal include: (i) recruitment o f a
                                                                            the
procurement coordinator to assist the Government during the PPF and the selection process for
the FMPU, (ii) selection o f a FPMU before the start o f project implementation who would
                 the
include an experienced procurement specialist; and (iii) drafting by the FPMU o f standard
                                                          the
bidding documents and contracts neededunder the project. In addition, procurement would be
subject to Bank prior review for the thresholds of US$200,000 for works and goods. The overall
project risk for procurement which was considered high at pre-appraisal, was considered
"average" at appraisal, inview o f the expected recruitment o f the FPMU.

 C. ProcurementPlan

The Borrower has developed a Procurement Plan for project implementationthat will provide the
basis for procurement under the Project. The plan for the first 18 months o f project
implementation was reviewed by the Bank in September 2004 and found acceptable. The plan
includes those activities that can be foreseen. It does not include subprojects that are demand-
driven. The Procurement Plan will be updated at periodic intervals and remain available for
review at the PCU office, and will be included in the Project database and the Bank's external
website.

D. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

Inaddition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, two supervision
missions would be conducted each year to monitor procurement and carry out a post review o f
procurement actions.


                    TableA: ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                      (US$ million equivalent)




                                      (0.0)     (0.3)     (0.9)      (0.0)       (1.2)
          2. Goods                     2.2       2.0        0.6       4.0         8.8
                                      (2.1)     (1-9)     (0.5)      (0.0)       (4.5)
          3. Training                                       3.2       2.1         5.3
                                                          (3-2)      (0.0)       (3 4
          4. Operating Costs                                0.1       1.5         1.6


                                                60

                                                                        (0.1)        (0.0)          (0.1)
            5. Subprojects                                               6.8                         6.8
                                                                        (6.8)                       (6.8)
            6. Consultants                                               6.1          8.5           14.6
                                                                        (5.2)        (0.0)          (5.2)
            Total                           2.2            2.4          17.9          17.1          39.6




1 '
Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA. All costs include contingencies.

*Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii)
                                                 granting project finds to local government units.




                                                           61

                        Table A1: ConsultantSelectionArrangements
                                     (US$ million equivalent)




                                   (3.0)    (0.3)     (0.2)          (0.0)       (3.5)
         B. Individuals                                2.0            2.8          4.8
                                                      (1*7)          (0.0)       (1-7)
                                    3.5      0.4       2.2      0.0    8.5        14.6
           Total                   (3.0)    (0.3)     (1.9)    (0.0)  (0.0)      (5 4




              Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods andPrior Review'




                              <US$150,000                 Other
 2. Goods                     >us$200,000                  ICB
                              <US$2OQ,OOO                 NCB              >us$200,000
                              <US$50,000                  Other
 3. Training                  >US$50,000                  QBS            All annualplansto
                              <US$50,000                  QBS          bereviewedby IDA
 4. OperatingCosts
            -
 5. Subprojects                   N.A                     Other          Equalto or above
                                                                            us$200,000
16. ConsultantServices
 Firms                                                    QCBS                  All
                                                           CQ                 Ex-Post
                              <us$loo,ooo                   LS                Ex-Post
 Individuals                  >US$50,000                Individual              All
-                             <US$50,000                Individual            Ex-Post


              Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$11.5million (55 %)

                         Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment: Average

 Frequencyofprocurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every six months (includes
 specialprocurement supervision for post-review/audits)



                                                  62

                         Table C: Allocationof Grant Proceeds


  1.Works                             1.1                         85%
 2. Goods                             4.0              100% of foreign and 85% of
                                                           local exnenditures
  3. Training                         2.8                        100%
 4. Operatingcosts                    0.1                         85%
I 5. Subnroiects           I          6.1            I           100%             I
  6. Consultantservices               4.6                         85%
 7. Repaymentof PPF                   0.6
  8, Unallocated                      1.7
 Total IDA Financing                  21.0




                                          63

                          Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
            ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                        -



1.     The "Economic Analysis o f HIVIAIDS" contained in the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
Program for the Africa Region (MAP) Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 20727 AFR,
Annex 5) and the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP 2) for the Africa Region
(Report No. P7497 AFR), provide the economic justification for the HAMSET project. As the
analysis indicates, HIV/AIDS undermines the three major determinants o f economic growth,
namely physical, human, and social capital. Due to its long incubation period (7-10 years), the
impact o f the HIVIAIDS epidemic i s likely to be drawn over time with the rate o f growth o f
physical and human capital and the efficiency o f social capital declining slowly inparallel with
the maturing o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Over time, the behavior o f GDP would reflect a similar
gradual downward reduction o f the rate o f growth (or increased rate o f contraction), rather than a
suddenfall inGDPper capita.

2.     With its history o f civil strife, weakened economy, and given what is known in
neighboringcountries and countries inlike circumstances, Angola represents the classic case o f a
country in which the rapid spread of the virus i s likely. Poverty, population movements, poor
knowledge about HIV/AIDS in rural areas, cultural beliefs, income and gender inequality, and
inadequate health facilities, are all factors promoting the spread o f HIV/AIDS. Once HIV levels
reach around 5 percent, which i s the case in Angola, ifno prevention measures are put inplace,
the infection could spread exponentially with the prevalence rate sometimes increasing by 50
percent every year as shown elsewhere. Should the epidemic not be checked it would prevent an
increasing share o f the population from participating inthe economy, resulting in a reduction in
economic growth and an increase inpoverty, thereby accelerating a vicious cycle.




                                                 64

                               Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
            ANGOLA - HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)


1.      The project has been classified as a "B" category for environmental screening purposes.
An assessment o f current health care waste management and disposal systems, carried out in
October 2003, showed that the current state of waste management system i s inadequate. Current
practices inhealth care waste and contaminated health care waste handling, storage and disposal,
in particular, raise environmental and social concerns. The need for sound management and
disposal o f contaminated health care waste i s important because health-related activities produce
waste on daily basis as a result o fpreventive and curative service delivery. Waste produced is in
the form o f sharps (needles, syringes, bistouries etc.), non-sharps, blood and other body fluids
infected and non-infected, chemicals, pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Health workers,
waste handlers, users of health facilities and the general public are all exposed to health care
relatedwaste and may become infected, as a result o fpoor management.

2.      At present, there are no available national environmental and social policies and
regulations that speak to safe handling, storage and disposal o f waste in general, and health care
waste in particular. Nor are there national policies and regulations related to pest control and
pesticides use and management. A sound policy and regulatory environment needs to be put in
place so that the govemment can have the means and capacity to enforce safeguard policies and
regulationspertaining to health care waste, andmonitor requiredmitigation measures.

3.      A thorough assessment of health care waste management and disposal, with a particular
focus management of waste from HIV/AIDS, other sexually transmitted diseases, malaria and
tuberculosis was conducted using PPF funds, and the government developed a national Health
Care Waste Management Plan. HAMSET would facilitate the implementation o f the plan,
including capacity building, mitigation measures and their timely monitoring. Financing for
priority actions o f the Plan, up to US$200,000 are included in the HAMSET project. Financing
for hrther activities o f the plan would be proposed under the EMRP which will support the
rehabilitation o f health centers and municipal hospitals as well as training for health facilities
staff. The EMRP was appraised in October 2004 and its processing schedule i s similar to that of
HAMSET. Additional sources of financing would also be sought, including from the govemment
budget itself.

4.      Notwithstanding a somewhat inadequate picture o f current health care waste management
practices and context, there i s reasonably fertile ground for success for the health care waste
management plan. Current predisposition within the provincial local govemment system, a
decentralized structure in charge o f waste collection and disposal in each o f eighteen provinces,
include three positive elements. First, a new strategy has been developed inconjunction with the
Ministry of Urbanism and Environment. This strategy is designed to revamp current
management practices o f waste, in general, and health care waste in particular, through the
establishment a new centralized incineration center for infectious health care waste. Second, the
government i s bringing on board three new private waste management service providers to
complement the activities o f the existing private service provider, URBANA 2000, and broaden
coverage o f the waste management and disposal activities in a safe and timely fashion. Third,



                                                 65

there are a number o f environmentally-focusedNGOs inthe country, who can play a crucial role
inbehavior change activitiestargeted at scavenging communities.




                                              66

                        Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision
            ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria and TB Control Project (HAMSET)
                        -

                                                    Planned                     Actual
PCNreview                                  October 9,2003             October 9, 2003
Initial ISDS to PIC                        October 9,2003             October 9,2003
Initial PID to PIC                        January 30,2004             January 30,2004
Appraisal                                  September 30,2004          September28,2004
Negotiations                               October 20,2004            November 15,2004
BoardRVP approval                         December21,2004
Planneddate of effectiveness              March 30,2005
Planneddate of mid-termreview              June 30,2007
Plannedclosing date                        June 30,2010

Key institutionresponsible for preparation ofthe project: MinistryofHealth

Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:

Name                                              Title                 Unit
Lawrence Barat                    Malaria Specialist                  AFTH3
Jog0 Blasques de Oliveira         Public Health Specialist            Consultant
Maria C. Correia                  Lead Social Development Specialist  AFTS2
Humberto Cossa                    Public Health Specialist            AFTH1
IsabelDuarte A. Mutambe           Team Assistant                      AFc02
Jean Jacques de St Antoine        Task Team Leader                    AFTH1
Nina Louise Frankel               Social Sector Specialist            Consultant
Mary Green                        Program Assistant                   AFTH1
Christy Hanson                    TB Specialist (Consultant)          AFTH3
Marie Khoury                      Disbursement Officer (Consultant)   LOAG2
Amadou Konare                     Environment Specialist (Consultant) AFTS1
Elisabeth Maier                   Operations Analyst                  AFMAO
Mbuba Mbungu                      Senior Procurement Specialist       AFTPC
Isabella Micali Drossos           Sr. Counsel                         LEGLA
NadeemMohammad                    Sr. Operations Officer              AFRHV
M.IsabelNhassengo-Massingue       Procurement Assistant               A F c 0 2
Albert0 Ninio                     Sr. Counsel                         LEGAF
JonathanNyamukapa                 Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
Cary Perry                        Public Health Specialist            Consultant
Francesco Sam0                    Procurement Specialist (Cons.)      AFTPC
Monica Sawyer                     Lawyer (Consultant)                 LEGAF
Katherine &ne Tulenko             Public Health Specialist            YPP

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1, Bankresources: US$194,000
    2. Trust funds: US$40,000
    3. Total:234,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:


                                                  67

1. Remaining costs to approval: US$50,000
2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$200,000




                                          68

                    Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
      ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                 -




1. Capacity assessmentof civil society andNGOs
2. Procurement capacity assessment, May 2004
3. Financial management capacity assessment, May 2004
4. Angola Health Sector (August 2,2003)
5. Global FundHIV/AIDS Proposal




                                         69

                                           Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits
                      ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                                       -

                                                                                                                           Difference between
                                                                                                                           expected and actual
                                                                  Original Amount in US$Millions                              disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.    Frm. Rev'd

PO81558      2004  3rd Social Action Fund (FAS 111)              0.00     55.00       0.00      0.00    0.00      59.14     0.00         0.00
PO78288      2003  Emergency Demobilization &                    0.00     33.003'     0.00      0.00    0.00      35.66     2.75         0.00
                   Reintegration
PO72205      2003  Economic Management Technical                 0.00      16.60      0.00      0.00    0.00      17.80      6.48        0.00
                   Assistance
PO56393      2000  2nd Social Action Fund (FAS 11)               0.00     33.00       0.00      0.00    0.00       0.00    -23.39        0.60

                                                      Total:     0.00   137.60        0.00      0.00    0.00     112.60   - 14.16        0.60




                                                                   ANGOLA
                                                          STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                         InMillionsofU S Dollars


                                                                   Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                                  IFC                                        IFC
        FY Approval   Company                        Loan        Equity     Quasi     Partic.   Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.
         1998         AEF Flecol                     0.61          0.00       0.00       0.00      0.61       0.00      0.00       0.00
                                   Total portfolio:    0.61        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.61       0.00      0.00       0.00




                                                                                Approvals PendingCommitment

                       FY Approval      Company                             Loan        Equity      Quasi        Panic

                       2003             EBA                              0.00            0.00        0.00         0.00

                                              Total pending commitment:      0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00




         35grant


                                                                        70

                                              Angola at a glance                                                           12/6/04



       POVERTYand SOCIAL

       2003
       Population,mid-year (millions)                            13.5      689    2,495               Lifeexpectancy
       GNI per capita (Atlas method,US$)                          740      450     430
                                                                                                            T
       GNI (Atlas method,US$billions)                            10.0  1   31     1,070

       Average annual growth,1997-03

       Population (%)                                             2.8       2.4     1.9
       Labor force %)                                             2.9       2.5     2.3   GNI                              Gross
                                           primary                                        per
       Most recent estimate (latest yearavailable, 1997-03)                               capita                       enrollment
       Poverty ("5 of population below national poverty line)
       Urban population ("hof total population)                    36       33       31
       Life expectancyat birth (years)                             47       46       59
       Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                    154      103       79
       Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                    31                42        Access to improvedwater
                                                                                                                    source
       Access to animprovedwater source (% ofpopulation)           38       58       76
       Illiteracy("5of populsfion age15+)                          58       37       37
       Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-age population)        64       87       94                Angola

           Male                                                    67       94      100                Low-income group
           Female                                                  60       80       88

       KEYECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERM TREN`DS

                                                        19832002 1993                                                             I
                                                                                   2003
                                                                                          Economicratios-
       GDP (US$billions)                                          5.3      10.8    13.8
       Gross domestic investment/GDP                             26.4      13.3    12.8                    Trade
       Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                           57.0      79.1    70.3
       Gross domestic savingdGDP                                 26.2      26.7    20.1
       Gross nationalsavingdGDP                                  11.7      11.9     7.1
                                                                                          Domestic
       Current account balance/GDP                              -14.8      -1.4                                       Investment
                                                                                          savings
       Interest paymentdGDP                                       0.5       0.9
       Total debt/GDP                                           198.4      93.9
       Total debt servicelexports                                 4.9       9.6
                                                                                                         Indebtedness
                                             1983-93
                                               1993-03
                                                 2003-47.
                                                 2003
                                                  2002
       (average annual growth)
       GDP                       17.5      3.4    14.4   6.6
per    GDP       capita                                  3.8   13.2
                                                                 11.1       0.4                   groupLow-income
       Exportsof goods and services              3.6     6.5   . 22.7    ,     . ..25.8


       STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                        1983     1993 2003 2002           Growth of investmentand GDP ("h)
       (%h GDP)
            of
       Agriculture                                                11.6      8.1     8.2
       Industry                                                  51.2      65.2    60.3
          Manufacturing                                           5.7       3.7     3.8
       Services                                                  37.2      26.7    31.5

       Privateconsumption                                        35.1                                                             I
       General government consumption                            38.7      36.9    34.2                                 GDP
       Importsof goods and services                               57.2     65.6    62.9


                                                      1983-93 1993-03 2003 2002           Growth of exportsand imports(%)
       (average annual growth)                                                                                                    I
       Agriculture                                                10.6     13.3    11.7  30 T

       Industry                                                    8.0     14.4     3.8   20

           Manufacturing                                           6.0     10.2    12.0   10

       Services                                                    2.3     14.7     -1     0

       General governmentconsumption                              16.7      0.2     0.1  -10

       Gross domesticinvestment                                    6.4     19.5    23.5
       Importsof goods and services                                7.7      3.6    10.2

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003        Inflation (%)
Domesticprices
   change)                                                                  600

Consumer prices                                1,379.5   108.9    98.3      500
                                                                            400
Implicit GDP deflator                           918.2    109.2   111.4      300

Governmentfinance                                                           200
                                                                            100
(aofGDP,includescurrentgrants)                                                0
Current revenue                                  39.1     40.5    37.5                 Q8   99     00       01      02     03
Currentbudgetbalance                             -15.1     3.5      0.5                     GDP deflator --O'--CPI
Overallsurplus/deficit (accrual basis)           -21.7     -9.3    -7.2    I

TRADE
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$millions)                                                                Export and importlevels(US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                             2,908    8,328   9,515      10,000 T
 Crude oil                                      2,757    7,539   8,537       8,000

 Diamonds                                          63      638     788       6,000
                                                                             4,000
 Manufactures                                      63       95     139       2,000
Total imports (cif)                             1,463    3,760   5,480           0
                                                                                     97   Q8  99      00            02   03
Export price index (1995=100)                      96      146     172
Importprice index (1995=100)                       88       81      91                      exports         imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         109      181     188


BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003        Current account balanceto GDP
(US$millions)
Exports of goodsand services                    3,013    8,535   9,717      l5T
Importsof goodsand services                     3,025    7,082   8,701      IO

Resourcebalance                                   -12    1,453   1,015

Net income                                       -935   -1,635  -1,906
Net current transfers                             166       32      99

Currentaccount balance                           -781    -150    -791

Financingitems (net)                             -118      -57   1,093
Changesin net reserves                            900      207   -301       -35-
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$millions)              197      375     636
Conversionrate (DEC,local/US$)                5.10E-6    43.7     74.6


EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$millions)                                                               Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed            10,486   10,134  11,073
  IBRD                                               0       0        0
  IDA                                              15      265     605

Total debtservice                                 152      844   1,256
  IBRD                                      0        0       0        0
  IDA                                       0        0       5        6

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                            0        0
  Official creditors                        0      34      -29      -1
  Private creditors                         0     596      108     -83
  Foreigndirect investment                        302    1,643   1,652
  Portfolioequity                           0        0       0        0

World Bank program
  Commitments                               0      20        0     105      A IBRD                            E Bilateral
  Disbursements                             0      10       21        7      B IDA      D Other multilateral  F Private
                                                                                                                  ~




  Principalrepayments                       0        0       3        4      C IMF                            G -Short-term

  Net flows                                 0      10       18        3
  Interestpayments                           0       0       2        2
  Net transfers                              0     10       16        1


DevelopmentEconomicsandAFTPI                                                                                          12/6/04

                                    Annex 15: SupervisionPlan
              ANGOLA HIV/AIDS, Malaria andTB ControlProject(HAMSET)
                          -


1.       The project will needintensive supervision givenits fast-track preparation, the large span
o f activities, its blendo fpublic andprivate sector interventions, and its multi-sector as well as its
multi-agency nature. Inaddition, Angola i s a country emerging from years o f conflict with poor
development indicators, and limitedcapacity. The project will be implementedbymany entities
only recently established and whose capacity will need strengthening. A budget o fUS$200,000,
i s neededto supervise the project duringthe first 12 monthso f implementation.

2.       Some of the skills required for supervision will be needed on a regular basis while others
will be required on an ad hoc basis. It is therefore proposed to establish a core supervision group,
that will emphasize financial, procurement and operational basic needs, complemented by
technical specialists, in particular those covering monitoring and evaluation, community
participation, maternal and childneeds, sectoral concerns and sub-regionalmatters.

3.       A muchmore intensivethan normal supervisionprogram should be carried out duringthe
first year o f the project to put inplace a sound institutional base and properly begininterventions
to be undertaken by this complex operation. Clearly there will be an incubation period for the
key new institutions, the ExecutiveSecretariat o f the National AIDS Commission and the CCM,
the Technical Subcommittee o f the C C M and HAMSET, and the HAMSET PCU. Not all the
PCU staff has knowledge o f Bank procedures and standards and there will be a learning curve
for the development o f a smooth-working team. Additionally, reliable baseline data will only
become increasingly available duringthe course o f the first year and will need rigorous analysis.
Therefore, during the first year o f the project, the supervision team will carry out quarterly
supervision missions, comprised o f 2-3 staff, and for approximately two weeks duration. The
priority technical specialists will provide support periodically, as required. The emphasis o f the
supervision missions will be in getting the HAMSET up and running, with particular stress on
capacity development for communities, NGOs and line ministries.

4.       Project supervision will also benefit form the Bank's Angola-based operational staff as
well as from Bank specialists form the health, education, and social protection sectors. In
addition there will be (i)monitoring and evaluation specialist; (ii) implementation specialist
                             a                                           an
to provide longer-term support and to troubleshoot implementation issues at an early stage; (iii)     a
maternal and childhealth specialist; and (iv) an NGO/CBO/community participation specialist.

5.       The supervision team therefore includes the following members: (i) Task Team the
Leader with experience in HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB control operations; (ii)a health and
nutrition andpopulation specialist; (iii)   a senior implementation specialist, to help inthe critical
first half year o f project implementation; (iv) afinancial management specialist who will review
adherence to Bank procedures with regard to fiduciary responsibilities; (v) procurement and
implementation specialists, responsible for procurement, implementation, and institutional
issues; and (vi) sector specialists inthe areas of education, gender, maternal and child needs, and
community participation.



                                                   73

6.     The supervision team will be complementedby representatives o f Angola's development
partners who are active in the fight against HIV/AIDS, many o f whom are members o f the UN
Theme Group on HIV/AIDS in Luanda. As during the preparation process, partners will be
invited to participate in supervision missions to ensure the complementarity o f interventions,
build strong partnerships, and facilitate a cross-fertilization o f experiences. Areas o f technical
consultant support to highlight are monitoring and evaluation (including prevalence and KAI?
surveys), community participation, LEC and BCC, andcoordination o freturning rehgees.




                                                74

h/IAP SECTION


