Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H140 ANG 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
(HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis Control Project - HAMSET) 
between 
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA 
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 18, 2005 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H140 ANG 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 2005, between THE REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS  (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing for the mitigation and control of 
HIV/AIDS, STI, Malaria and Tuberculosis (TB); 
(B) 
the Project is part of the second phase of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS 
Program (MAP II) for the Africa Region, approved by the Board of Executive Directors 
of the Association on February 7, 2002; 
(C) 
the Recipient has also requested financing from the Global Fund (GF) to 
assist in the fight and control of the Malaria aspects the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth: 
(a) 
“Action Plan” means any document describing a set of activities to fight 
the HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis epidemics carried out by a PSO (as hereinafter 
defined), including prevention treatment, care and mitigation of negative impact; 
(b) 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
“CCM” means the Recipient’s Country Coordinating Mechanism as 
specified in the Project Operation Manual; 
(d) 
“CNLSGE” means the Recipient’s 
Comissão Nacional para a Luta 
contra HIV/SIDA e as Grandes Endemias 
(National HIV/AIDS and Endemic Diseases 
Commission) for the fight against HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STI and Tuberculosis established 
and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 1/03 dated January 10, 2003 (the 
“CNLSGE Decree”); 
(e) 
“CSO” means a civil society organization established and operating 
under the laws of the Recipient, including rural or urban communities, grass-root 
organizations, religious and cultural organizations, professional and non-professional 
associations, private enterprises, NGOs and community-based associations involved in 
the fight against HIV/AIDS and which have met the eligibility criteria set out in the 
Project Operational Manual and the requirements of paragraph 8 Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and, as a result, have received or are entitled to receive a CSO Sub-grant (as 
hereinafter defined) through a CSO Agreement (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying 
out of a CSO Subproject (as hereinafter defined); 
(f) 
“CSO Agreement” means an agreement for the financing of a CSO Sub-
project and referred to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(g) 
“CSO Sub-grant” means a sub-grant made, or to be made, out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, to finance a CSO Sub-project; 
(h) 
“CSO Sub-project” means a set of activities to fight the HIV/AIDS, 
Malaria and Tuberculosis and carried out by a CSO and financed, or proposed to be 
financed, through a Sub-grant under the Project; 
(i) 
“DOTS”  means Directly-Observed Treatment; 
(j) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (6) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Executive Secretariat” means the Secretariat providing services to the 
CNLSGE and the CCM; 
(m) 
“External Clients” means users of their services of a specific PSO (as 
hereinafter defined);   
(n) 
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(o) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(p) 
 “Fiscal Year” mean the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on  
January 1 and ending on December 31 of each year; 
(q) 
“FPMU” or “Financial and Procurement Management Unit” means the 
firm to be recruited by the Recipient to carry out financial management, accounting and 
procurement activities under the Project, as well as the collection of data for monitoring 
and evaluation purposes, referred in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(r) 
“HIV” means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus; 
(s) 
“IEC” means information, education, communication; 
(t) 
“Initial Deposit” means the amount to be deposited in the Project 
Account pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(u) 
“Internal Clients” means the staff and dependents of a specific PSO (as 
hereinafter defined);  
(v) “Kwanza” 
(
Kwanza
)
or the acronym “KZ” means the currency of the 
Recipient; 
(w) 
“Line Ministries” means the participating ministries, including, but not 
limited to, MAPESC, MOD, MOE, and MFPM (as hereinafter defined);  
(x) “MAPESC” 
means 
Ministério da Administração Pública, Emprego e 
Segurança Social
,
the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of public administration, 
employment and social security;  
(y) 
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in 
 
paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(z) “MFPM” 
means 
Ministério da Família e Proteção da Mulher,
 
the Recipient’s ministry in charge of family and women affairs;  
(aa) 
“MWMP” means the medical waste management plan acceptable to the 
Association for the management of hazardous health/medical waste under the Project, 
referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Medical Waste 
Management Plan;  
(bb) “MOD” 
means 
Ministério da Defesa 
the Recipient’s Ministry in charge 
of Defense; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(cc) 
 “MOE”  means 
Ministério da Educação 
the Recipient’s Ministry in 
charge of Education; 
(dd) “MOH” 
means 
Ministério da Saúde
 the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of 
Health; 
(ee) 
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations, established and 
operating under the laws of the Recipient; 
(ff) 
“PLWHA” means people living with HIV/AIDS; 
(gg) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
September 28, 2004, covering the initial 12 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.03 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 12 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(hh) 
“Project Account” means the account to be opened pursuant to 
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;  
(ii) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual to be adopted pursuant 
to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, outlining policies, procurement and implementation procedures and 
monitoring guidelines for the Project; 
(jj) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on November 25, 2003, and on behalf of the Recipient on 
December 10, 2003. 
(kk) 
“PSO” means a national, provincial and municipal public sector 
organization, including, Line Ministries, secretariats of state, parastatals companies and 
public entities existing and operating at the local level under the laws of the Recipient;  
(ll) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(mm)  “Sector Focal Team” means a team within the Recipient’s Line 
Ministries, in charge of preparing, reviewing and implementing an Action Plan for said 
Line Ministries; 
(nn) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;  
(oo) 
“STIs” means sexually transmitted infections;  
Page  6
-
5
-
(pp) 
“TB” means Tuberculosis; and 
(qq) 
“TSCCM” means the Technical Subcommittee of the CCM comprised of 
PCU Director, Technical Program Directors of the MOH and six other permanent 
members from Line Ministries, donors, United Nation agencies and civil society. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fourteen million and one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 14,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made: 
(i)  
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; 
(ii)  
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be 
paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made for the 
benefit of a PSO to meet the reasonable costs of goods and 
services to be financed under Part A of the Project out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and 
 (iii)  
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be 
paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made for the 
benefit of a CSO to meet the reasonable costs of goods, works 
and services required for CSO Sub-Project to be financed under 
Part C of the Project out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in currency specified in this Agreement or in 
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on March 1 
and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.06. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through MOH in a multi-sectoral approach involving all participating Line 
Ministries, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and public health practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall for the purposes of the Project: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of  the Project, an 
account in Kwanzas in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association (Project Account) into which it shall deposit from time to time its local 
counterpart contribution to the cost of the Project; 
(b) 
promptly thereafter, deposit the initial amount in Kwanza equivalent to 
$200,000 (the Initial Deposit); 
 
(c) 
thereafter deposit into the Project Account, at quarterly intervals during 
Project implementation, an amount or amounts as may be required and agreed upon with 
the Association to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the Initial 
Deposit; and 
 
(d) 
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to 
paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures 
made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project 
and not financed or to be financed by the Grant. 
Section 3.03. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
No later then three (3) months after the Effective Date, approve and 
thereafter implement a Financial Management Manual outlining financial, administrative 
and accounting procedures and guidelines to be followed in the implementation of the 
Project; and  
(b) 
No later then six (6) months after the Effective Date, acquire and install 
and train PCU staff on the use of  new accounting software system.  
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to 
by the Association), commencing with the Fiscal Year in which 
the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was 
made, audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Grant, and explains variances between the actual 
and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Program will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
The CNLSGE Decree, or any texts enacted for its application, shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 
6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit deposited 
therein; 
(b) 
the Recipient has adopted the Project Operation Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;  
(c) 
the Recipient has contracted with the Financial and Procurement 
Management Unit, satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(d) 
the TSCCM membership is appointed and fully operational. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning (
Ministra do Planeamento
)
of the 
Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of  
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Planning 
 
Largo d
o
Palácio 
 
Cidade Alta 
 
Caixa Postal 1205 
 
Luanda 
 
Angola 
 
Facsimile: 
 
244
233
9586 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Luanda, Republic of Angola, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA 
 
By 
 
/s/ Ana Dias Lourenco 
 
Authorized Representative 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
  /s/ 
Michael 
Baxter 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
Part A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (Expressed 
in  
SDR Equivalent
)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)  Works 
750,000 
85% 
(2)  Goods 
 
2,700,000 
100% of foreign expenditures and 
85% of local expenditures 
(3)  Training 
1,900,000 100% 
(4)  Consultants’ services  
and audits 
3,100,000 85% 
(5)  CSO Sub-projects  
4,100,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(6)  Operating costs 
    70,000 
100% 
(7)  Refunding of the Project 
Preparation Advance 
 
400,000 
Amount due pursuant to  
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement 
(8)  Unallocated 
1,080,000 
 
Total 
14,100,000
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms : 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
(c) 
“operating costs” means the incremental expenditures incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office furniture and supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, bank charges on Special 
Account, rental expenses, office maintenance costs, utilities, travel cost for Project staff 
and salaries of support contractual staff for the Project, excluding salaries of officials of 
the Recipient’s civil service; and 
(d) 
“training” includes scholarships, stipends, travel, purchase of training 
materials and rental of training facilities.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of :  
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
expenditures under Category (5) to a CSO for a CSO Sub-project under a 
CSO Sub-grant Agreement unless: (i) the Grant Agreement has been made in accordance 
with eligibility criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Project 
Operational Manual and the provisions of paragraph 6 and 7 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) CSO Sub-Projects costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; and (f) training and operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
Page  16
-
15
-
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
Part B.  Special Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Page  17
-
16
-
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports.
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to organize a response to the 
HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis epidemics through a multi-sectoral approach by: 
(i) reducing the spread and mitigating the effects of HIV/AIDS through the increasing 
access to prevention services diagnosis, care and support for PLWHA.; (ii) strengthening 
the capacity of the health sector to detect new cases of Tuberculosis, improve treatment 
compliance, and increase the completion rate; (iii) strengthening the capacity of the MOH 
to effectively manage cases of malaria.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
Public Sector Response 
1. 
Capacity Building:
 Carrying out capacity building activities at the national, 
provincial and municipal levels for the Line Ministries to: (a) prepare and execute Action 
Plans on HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis focusing on Internal and External Clients, 
(b) train Sector Focal Team on HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STI, and Tuberculosis and peer 
educators in project preparation, management, monitoring and evaluation; and (c) 
organize HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis outreach programs; all through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training, the acquisition of goods, 
equipments and materials. 
2. 
Support the Line Ministries to mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and 
Tuberculosis on Internal Clients:
 Carrying out activities to mitigate the impact of the 
HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis at the national, provincial and municipal PSOs 
through, 
inter alia
,
(a) IEC activities for staff and their dependents; (b) development and 
distribution of behavioral change and safe sex practice materials; (c) distribution of 
condoms; (d) promote the access to diagnosis and treatment; (e) conduct baseline 
knowledge, attitude and practices survey; (f) review staff and dependent benefits in 
respect of the long term needs posed by HIV/AIDS and establish guidelines for timely 
disbursement of benefits; (g) review and strengthen policies regarding protection of 
PLWHA; (h) prepare gender-responsive sectors-specific HIV/AIDS communication 
plans in PSOs; (i) mainstream HIV/AIDS related activities into the core functions of 
every sector; all through the provision of technical advisory services and training, the 
acquisition of goods, equipments and materials.  
3.  
Support the Line Ministries to mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and 
Tuberculosis on External Clients:  
Carrying out same activities as Part A.2 to mitigate the 
impact of the HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis at the national, provincial and 
Page  22
-
21
-
municipal levels focusing on External Clients; all through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training, the acquisition of goods, equipments and materials.  
Part B
:
Health Sector Response
1. 
National HIV/AIDS Strategy:
 Carrying out activities to strengthen MOH capacity to 
implement the national HIV/AIDS strategy at the national, provincial and municipal levels 
through, 
inter alia
:
(a) improving the epidemiology surveillance system; (b) conducting IEC 
activities and undertake mass media campaigns to reduce stigma surrounding HIV/AIDS 
epidemic; (c) promoting behavioral change and safe sex practices (including the use of 
condoms); (d) developing and implementing guidelines for dissemination and treatment of 
STI; (e) developing and implementing guidelines for promoting HIV voluntary counseling 
and testing; (f) installing voluntary counseling and testing units in health centers, and 
municipal and general hospitals; (g) developing logistical systems for the implementation of 
the national safe blood policy; (h) preparing and implementing policies on breastfeeding and 
the prevention of mother-to-child transmission; (i) expanding counseling as well as 
psychological and material support for PLWHA and their families; (j) preparing gender-
responsive sectors-specific HIV/AIDS sensitization plans; and (k) developing and 
implementing operational plans for the control of  HIV/AIDS; all through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training, the acquisition of goods, equipments, materials and 
the execution of works for the rehabilitation and extension of existing infrastructure.  
2.  
Malaria:
 Carrying out activities to strengthen Malaria control initiatives at the 
national, provincial and municipal level through, 
inter alia
:
(a) training coordinators in  
operational management; (b) finalizing and disseminating laboratory guidelines for diagnosis, 
case management, and entomological studies; (c) developing mechanisms to integrate 
Malaria treatment into reproductive health programs; and (d) training of health sector service 
providers at all levels as well as NGOs to implement case management guidelines; all 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training. 
3.  
Tuberculosis: 
Carrying out activities to strengthen Tuberculosis national programs by 
increasing the DOTS coverage and integrating TB and HIV/AIDS interventions through, 
inter alia
:
(a) developing and disseminating of DOTS guidelines; (b) developing guidelines 
for symptom-based TB screening of HIV/AIDS positive individuals; 
 
(c) developing and implementing recoding systems; (d) rehabilitating and equipping 
laboratories for TB diagnosis; (e) improving logistical capacity to plan, procure and distribute 
TB drugs; (f)  training of health sector service providers at all levels; (g) improving TB 
diagnosis and treatment; (h) developing and implementing guidelines for the integration of 
TB and HIV services; and (i) creating voluntary counseling and testing services for HIV 
testing of TB patients; all through the provision of technical advisory services and training, 
the acquisition of goods, equipment, and materials and the execution of works for the 
rehabilitation and extension of existing infrastructure.  
Page  23
-
22
-
Part C
:
Community Response
Supporting CSOs at the national, provincial and municipal level in their initiatives 
against HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis through prevention, control and support 
activities and the preparation and execution of Subprojects, detailing, among other things, the 
measures to be taken by their staff and by their members to initiate or strengthen their fight 
against HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) conducting IEC 
activities on the impact of the HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis epidemics and 
supporting the formal and informal education sectors to carry messages and promote 
behavioral changes; (b) promoting the use of condoms; (c) expanding community-based 
networks in prevention, care and support activities; (d) promoting revenue-generating 
activities for PLWHA and their families; (e) providing home and community-based care for 
PLWHA; and (f) supporting orphans, foster families and AIDS-stricken impoverished 
households, including those headed by females, children and elderly, by providing material 
and psychological support; all through the provision of sub-grants approved in accordance 
with the Project Operational Manual.  
Part D
:
Project Coordination
1. 
Carrying out activities to support the establishment of the PCU to facilitate, 
coordinate, monitor and evaluate HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis prevention, care and 
support activities, as embodied in the Program, through the rehabilitation of installations, 
acquisition of goods and equipment, provision of technical advisory services and training. 
2. 
Contracting out entities to: (i) assist PCU in procurement and financial tasks; (ii) 
monitor and evaluate activities to ensure an independent analysis and the tracking of Program 
performance against targets and variations in accordance the Project Operational Manual; and 
(iii) carry out project audits. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and servic
es (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Recipients” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
Goods which the Association agrees can 
only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding.  
2. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract and works, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract  and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  25
-
24
-
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet 
the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Goods may be procured directly from 
U.N. International Agency Procurement Services Unit (IAPSO), the United Nations 
International Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Fund for Population 
Activities (UNFPA), and the World Health Organization (WHO),  in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
6. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required for Part C 
of the Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association as defined in the Project Operation 
Manual. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for audits and works engineering services 
may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  26
-
25
-
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, (b) each contract 
for  works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding, Limited International Bidding or National 
Competitive Bidding, or Direct Contracting; and (c) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
A. General
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Operation Manual, Procurement Plan and the Medical Waste Management Plan, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend, abrogate, 
or waive any provision of these documents if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment, abrogation or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of 
the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain CNLSGE and its Executive Secretariat in a form 
and with functions, staffing, resources and operation satisfactory to the Association, in 
accordance with the CNLSGE Decree and the Project Operation Manual. 
3. 
The Recipient shall maintain TSCCM in a form and with functions, staffing, 
resources and operation satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the Project 
Operation Manual. 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause its Line Ministries, through their respective Sector 
Focal Team, to prepare in collaboration with PCU their annual Action Plan. 
B. PCU
5. 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain throughout the implementation of the 
Project, the PCU in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Association, in accordance with the Project Operational Manual.  
6. 
The Recipient shall cause the PCU to carry out the facilitation, implementation, 
monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the Project to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the 
preparation of consolidated annual work programs and budgets for the Project; (ii) in 
collaboration with FPMU, the preparation of FMRs in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; (iii) the preparation of reports on the status of Project implementation; 
and (iv) signing of  Sub-grant Agreements with CSO for CSO Subprojects, in accordance 
with the Project Operational Manual. 
C. Safeguard 
Policies
7. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the MWMP, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision of the said plan, if such amendment or waiver may, in the 
opinion of the Association materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
Page  28
-
27
-
D. CSO 
Subprojects 
8. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no CSO Subproject 
shall be eligible for financing under a sub-grant out of the proceeds of the Grant, on the 
basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual, that the CSO Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified 
below and in more detail in the Project Operational Manual, which shall include the 
following: 
(a) 
the CSO Subproject shall be for any of the types of activities referred to 
in Part C of the Project and shall not be for any of the activities mentioned in a negative 
list in the Project Operational Manual; 
(b) 
the CSO Subproject shall be initiated and implemented by a CSO; 
(c) 
the CSO Subproject shall be in accordance with the standards specified 
in the Project Operational Manual; and 
(d) 
the CSO Subproject shall be in compliance with the applicable laws and 
regulations of the Recipient relating to its HIV/AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis 
Program. 
9. 
CSO Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to CSO Agreements, to be 
received, reviewed and selected, approved and signed by PCU and the concerned CSO, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the 
following: 
(a) 
a copy of the approved CSO Subproject, with its budget and its 
performance indicators; 
(b) 
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis;
 
(c) 
the obligation to: (A) carry out the CSO Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public health 
standards and in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational Manual; (B) 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with simple and sound accounting 
practices defined in the Project Operational Manual, the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the CSO Subproject; and (C) maintain adequate reporting in 
accordance with the standards specified in the Project Operational Manual; 
(d) 
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the CSO Sub-grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and 
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the CSO Subproject; 
Page  29
-
28
-
(e) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the CSOs, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(f) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Recipient or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the CSO Subproject; and  
(g) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the CSO to 
use the proceeds of the CSO Sub-grant for the CSO Subproject upon failure by the CSO 
to perform any of its obligations under its CSO Agreement.  
E.  
Reports and Midterm Review
10. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
implement maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Project Operation 
Manual and performance indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under the conditions provided for in the Project Operation 
Manual terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association, 
not later than April 30, and October 31 of each year, or at any later date agreed with the 
Association, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph 5 above and including beneficiaries’ feedback reports 
and CSO Subproject completion reports, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the calendar semester preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof during the calendar semester following such date; 
and 
(c) 
review with the Association, not later than one month after the 
submission of the report referred to in paragraph (ii) above, or at any later date agreed 
with the Association, the report referred to in paragraph (ii) above, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
11. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
Not later than June 30, 2007, or any other period agreed upon by the 
Association, the Recipient shall carry out jointly with the Association a midterm review 
of the progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm 
Page  30
-
29
-
Review). The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things progress made in 
meeting the Project’s objective; and overall Project performance against Project 
performance indicators. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than 
March 30, 2007, a separate report describing the status of implementation of each 
component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally, 
including, in particular, the results of project beneficiary assessments. 
(c) The Recipient provides the Association, no later than 
 
July 31, 2007, with a working plan satisfactory to the Association integrating the results 
of the Midterm Review for future satisfactory implementation of the Project and 
Program.
 
Page  31
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 5  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject 
to any modifications set forth in such agreement.”  
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
which the Grant is made.” 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial 
Payment”. 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under 
the Development Grant Agreement”. 
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
Page  32
-
31
-
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it 
under the Development Grant Agreement in the currency 
specified in such agreement or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be 
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
(d) 
Section 4.06 (b) is modified to read as follows: 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay 
under the Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without 
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient.” 
7. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a) (ii) and (c) (i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
8. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and 
free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
9. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
Page  33
-
32
-
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
Page  34
-
33
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Monitoring Indicators 
Outcome 
indicators 
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 
HIV/AIDS 
 
HIV/AIDS prevalence
*
11% 13% 15% 17% 18% 19% 
Percentage of young people aged 15-
24 who can both correctly identify 
ways of preventing the sexual 
transmission of HIV and reject major 
misconceptions about HIV 
transmission and prevention  
60% 65% 70% 75% 80% 85% 
Tuberculosis 
 
Proportion of the 59 priority 
municipalities that have implemented 
TB control activities  
4%  40% 50% 70% 90% 100% 
Percentage of diagnosed TB patients 
covered by DOTS in the 59 priority 
municipalities 
5%  25% 45% 65% 70% 75% 
Malaria 
 
Institutional mortality due to malaria 
among children under five years  
53% 45% 35% 25% 15% 15% 
*
HIV/AIDS prevalence will be measured in pregnant women aged 15-49 in proxy to the population 
 
