Documer; of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
4                        *I~~~~~~~~~' t  Z    ji    I !        
1 B      > t 1"t. ':  i, ,t i  :................ReportNo. 9718
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1510-UG)
JUNE 26, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regiona± Office
This documeni has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tbe performance of
their official ouies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
DANIDA      =     Danish International Development Agency
EC          =     European Community, formerly European Economic
Community (EEC)
GOU         =     Government of the Republic of Uganda
GTZ         =     Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
KCC         =     Kampala City Council
MWMD        =     Ministry of Water and Mineral Development
NWSC        =     National Water and Sewerage Corporation
PCU         =     Project Coordination Unit
RWSG        =     Regional Water and Sanitation Group (Nairobi)
UNICEF      =     United Nations International Children's
Emergency Fund
WDD         =     Water Development Department



FOR OFFCAL USE ONLW
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oic of DvfeclrwGetal
Op.f.tkw, Evakatkm
June 26, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDFE
SUBJECT:     Project Completioti Report on Uganda
Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1510-UG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Uganda - Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1510-UG)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their o  'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1510-UG
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface  ..................................................   i
Evaluation Summary  .........................................  ii
PART I        PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity  ................................    1
Background .....................................    I
Project Objective Description   .................             2
Project Design and Organization            .................   2
Project Implementation and Results            ..............   4
Borrower Financial Performance
During Implementation          ....................   6
Sustainability   ....................... ...   9
Bank Performance  ......... .... .. ..... ...........  10
Borrower Performance  ............................ .  10
Consultant Performance ...........................  11
PART II       PROJECT REVIEW PROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Background  .................         .      ..........*13
The Project                         .    ..............   14
Project Implementation  .........................   16
Extraordinary Occurrences                       .       .   21
Conclusions            .. .        ..........               22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
PART III    SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Credits   ......................   23
Project Timetable  ..                   ...............   24
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements             25
Project Costs and Financing          ....                 27
Project Results  ........ . . .30
Compliance With Legal Covenants                           31
Use of Bank Resources .34
Annexs
1.    Income Statements and Balance Sheets                      36
2.    Financial Impact ....                                     38
3.    Piped Water Supply and Sewerage Coverage, 1989 ...   39



- i -
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY AND SA1NITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit 1510-UG
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
P,ef ace
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Water
Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project in Uganda, for which Credit
No. 1510-UG of US$28 million was approved on May 29, 1984. The Project
was closed on March 31, 1990 according to the original schedule. An
amount of $47,687.75 remains to be recovered from the Special Account,
for which additional documentation from the Borrower is awaited. An
undisbursed balance from the credit of $1,747.05 remains, which will be
cancelled as soon as the Special Account has been fully recovered.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Division
of the Eastern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and III) and the Borrower (Part II). No cofinanciers participated in the
Project.
Preparation of the PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the Project in October 1989 and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit 1510-UG
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evalu iton Summar
Origin
1.          The Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project was
the second Bank credit in the sector for Uganda, with a credit amount of
US$28 million. The Project was designed to rehabilitate the water supply
and sanitation systems in the seven major towns in Uganda, following
more than a decade of civil strife and economic decline, and to
strengthen the National Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), so
that it could sustain the systems after project completion with a
minimum of asststance (see Part I, Para 4). A program of further
improvement and expansion of the water supply and sewerage service in
the seven towns was prepared as part of the Project, with drawings ready
for implementation in follow-up projects. Preparation took place in 1983
and 1984 during the implementation of the preceding Engineering Credit.
The Credit was approved in July 1984 and closed in September 1989.
Components
2.          The Project, costing $30.83 million, was comprised of: (a)
rehabilitation of existing water and sewerage treatment works and the
water distribution and sewerage network, (b) latrine construction,
provision of facilities for emptying septic tanks and for refuse
collection, and health education, (c) technical assistance and other
support to the two principal institutions in charge of the sector, NWSC
and the Water Development Department (WDD) of the Ministry of Water and
Mineral Development.
Implementation
3.          NWSC, a parastatal organization established in 1972 to
manage the water supply and sanitation systems in Kampala, Entebbe and
Jinja, was the main beneficiary from the Project. WDD, which was
responsible for water supply and sanitation in Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara,
and Tororo until it handed over these towns to NWSC in 1988,
participated in implementing the Project in these four towns. The main
responsibility for project implementation lay with the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) which had been created by the preceding project
for this purpose.



- iii -
4.          Cilil strife and a steady economic and social decline since
1970 hampered the project implementation from the outset and led to some
delays. In spite of the adverse conditions, which included two changes
of government, the major physical components were implemented on time
and generally within the cost estimates. This was possible because of
the thorough preparation of designs and tender documents prior to the
project, and the good performance of the contractors and consultants.
But the implementation of th( other components was seriously delayed
because they had not been as carefully prepared as the physical works
and, by t:,eir very nature, were more difficult to carry out. Most
experts, required to support NWSC in line functions, arrived only in
1988. Several Ugandan professionals were sent for specialized study
abroad early on in the Project, but training in '.ganda - mostly for
artisans and other middle-level staff - started only after a long delay
(see Part I, Para. 19).
Financial Performance
5.          The financial performance of NWSC was far below appraisal
targets throughout the project, and many of the financial covenants in
the legal agreement," were not met. Government delayed the approval of
tariff increases, vital under high inflation, to the extent that
revenues were far below costs, resulting in poor staff morale and poor
management of the water supply and sanitation systems. A low billing and
collection rate, particularly from Government agencies, and slow
progress in consumer registration compounded the problem. The
Government's claims that higher tariffs and enforcement of collection
could not have been carried out before the system was restored to
provide a reasonable level of service has been partly validated by the
good financial performance of NWSC since the Project was completeA1, when
adequate tariff increases and a vigorous registration, billing and
collection program have been implemented as part of the conditions of
effectiveness for the follow-up project.
Results
6.          All the water and waste water treatment works were in full
operation in the seven towns well before the closing date, with roughly
double the amount of treated water distributed in the seven towns than
at the start of the Project. The water distribution, storage tanks, and
sewer mains were also rehabilitated. But water supply still reached only
about 50 percent of the total population of 1.1 million in these towns
and was still unreliable mainly due to (i) the high percent of
unaccounted for water - estimated at about 40 percent, (ii) insufficient
capacity in the system to meet the total demand, and (iii) inefficient
operation of the systems for various reasons, including a shortage of
electric power. At Project completion, very few consumers, estimated at
16 percent, were connected to the sewerage system, and several sewage
treatment plants, including the one in Kampala, received much less waste
water than they were designed for.



- iv -
7.          The Project succeeded in restoring a basic service to moat
consumers who can afford to pay for piped water and sewerage, mainly
those with individual household connections and commercial,
institutional and industrial users. Most lower-inc'e households would
have to be served through a communal water source, but only about 28
percent of all consumers were served by stand posts (see Part I, Para
6). The low-cost sanitation component consisted of the construction of
pit la:;rines and the provision of health education as a demonstration
ana was only partly implemented (see Part I, Paras 15 and 16).
8.          NWSC emerged as a much stronger organization at the end of
the Project, able to manage water supply and sewerage in the seven towns
with a minimum of assistance, mostly due -o the technical assistance and
training provided. WDD on the other hand is unable to carry out its
responsibilities in the sector with the current budget, staffing and
organizational setup within the Government. Follow-up projects, defined
to remedy these deficiencies, include the Second Water Supply Project
(Credit 2124-UG) for $117.8 million, the PAPSCA Project (Credit 2088-UG)
for $37 million, and a proposel Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project
for about $56 million.
Sustainability
9.          Very low salaries in the civil service have contributed to a
low working morale because of the need for individuals to earn
additional income on the side. While this was largely overcome for the
implementation of the Project through allowances for local PCU staff and
support to NWSC through technical assistance, it adversely affected the
operation and maintenance of the water supply and sanitation systems and
minor improvement programs carried out by NWSC, rather than by
contractors, such as the installation of water meters. The situation has
improved markedly since project completion, as higher revenues have
enabled NWSC to pay substantial performance allowances to its staff. The
albeit short period of in-coantry training during the Project also
contributed to the better availability of the requisite skills. Some
higher-level posts in NWSC are still filled with international experts
under the Second Water Supply Project, with financing from IDA and other
donors.
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.         Through its participation in the Project, the Bank was
instrumental in assisting the Government with the formulation of a
strategy for water supply and sanitation based on the principle, since
then accepted by other donors, that the population should be provided
with the type of service (household connections, stand posts, handpumps,
etc.) and the corresponding institutional and financial arrangements
that it can afford to assszre sustainability. In this context the
Government gave first priority to the seven major towns, including
Kampala. Several follow-up projects assisted by various donors now



address themselves to the rural population and to the urban areas other
than the seven major towns.
1X.         In spite of an extremely adverse political and economic
climate, it was possible to restore the physical works on schedule and
to carry out the financial and inatitutional reforms of NWSC necessary
to transform it into a viable parastatal organization.
12.         The financial targets, incorporated as covenants intr the
legal agreements, were too ambitious, expecting too rapid results from
the institutional reforms. The non-compliance with many of the financial
covenants was t. cen up during nearly every supervision mission, with no
marked improvement. The aims were over-ambitious, particularly regarding
(i) the expectation of full cost recovery in the face of a very poor, lf
any, water and sanitation service provided to the users, and (ii) in
expecting WDD, as a Government agency, to reform the operation of the
systems in the four towns to the standards of a public utility before
handing them over to NWSC itear the end of the Project.
13.         In spite of several organizational studies in the sector, no
satisfactory plan has been formulated to define the Government's long-
term role in water supply and sanitation. Donor-assisted projects
provide enclaves within which international firms facilitate the
participation of government agencies on different levels and of the
users withiut permanent organizational umbrella to interact with the
user groups after the project is completed. Donors are thezeby committed
to follow-up projects from the onset, which can be a hindrance to the
establishment of the required institutional strength by the Government.
14.         Even though these were rehabilitation projects, more
attention should have been paid during the preceding Engineering Credit
and during project preparation to the non-physical components. Routine
procedures are used in large part for feasibility studies, preparations
of designs, and tendering for civil works, while the preparation of such
components as technical assistance, training, health education, and low-
cost sanitation strongly depends on the specific conditions encountered.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1510-UG)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Prolect Identity
Project Name:            Water Supply and Sanitation
Rehabilitation Project
Credit No.:              1510-UG
RVP Unit:                Eastern Africa Depe:rtment
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country:                 Uganda
Sector:                  Water Supply and Sanitation
Sub-Sectors              Urban Water Supply and Sanitation
B. Backaround
1.          The Project was implemented under extremely difficult
conditions, which included civil war, two changes of government,
inflation up to 360 percent per year, and very low local salaries. The
high security risk affected all who were involved in the Project:
consultants, contractors, the implementing agency and supervising Bank
staff. The water supply and sanitation installations that existed
before 1971 had deteriorated or had been destroyed in a civil war to the
point where hardly any service was provided. No napacity expansion had
taken place in that period to keep up with the increase in urban
population -- accelerated by war and economic decline -- to the extent
that 60 percent of the population in towns with water schemes had no
access to piped water at the time of project appraisal in 1984. Most
sewerage systems were operating far below capacity, with the result that
only about 30 percent of Uganda's urban population had an adequate
sanitation service, mainly through septic tanks. This was compounded by
a weak institutional capability in the sector and a low implementation
capacity for projects.
2.          The Government formulated a recovery program in 1983, the
basic objective of which was to revive the productive sectors through
rehabilitation and improved utilization of exist'ng capacity. The main
objective of the water supply and sanitation sector Was to restore the
basic services through rehabilitation of existing facilities. An
investment pregram was prepared, aimed at rehabilitating all existing
urban water and sewerage schemes by about 1988 with the assistance of
various donors, aimed mostly at the seven major towns. In 1984 the
preparation of a sector study and action plan was started to improve the
Government's planning capability and strengthen the institutions
involved in the sector.
3.          The Water Supply and Sanitation Project was the second IDA-
funded project in the sector, following an Engineering Credit (No. 1110-
UG) ifi 1981-84, both dealing with the seven major towns. Other donors,
notably the EC and GTZ, supported rehabilitation in the sector through



- 2 -
parallel assistance projects, closely coordinated with the activities of
the Bank.
C. Proiect Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
4.          The main objectives of the Project were to!
i.    restore water supply and sanitation in the seven major
towns through rehabilitation of existing facilities
and improving refuse collection and disposal;
ii.   demonstrate low-cost sanitation through a pilot scheme
of latrine construction and health education; and
iii.  strengthen the two water sector agencies, NWSC and
WDD, with the main emphasis on NWSC, through the
provision of technical assistance and training.
Project Description
5.          The main components of the Project were:
iv.   ,erabilitation of existing water and sewerage
treatment works in the seven towns;
v.    replauement of defective water mains and storage tanks
and construction of sewage treatment ponds;
vi.   supply of equipment for refuse collection and disposal
and for emptying septic tanks;
vii.  construction of latrines combined with provision of
health education; and
viii. technical assistance to NWSC and WDD. consulting
services for the supervision of the rehabilitation
works, and training.
D. Proiect Design and Organization
6.          The overall project concept of restoring the most urgently
needed water supply and sanitation services was a sound one. Preceded by
an engineering credit to design the required civil works and to provide
basic material and institutional support, water supply and sewage
disposal improved markedly in the seven towns during the ,mplementation
of the Project. The Government decided that out of the three basic types
of consumers in the country - namely those in the major towns, in other
towns and rural growth centers, and in rural areas - first priority
should be given to restoring services for a large proportion of the
population in the major towns. An attempt was made in the Project
design to spread the service in these towns to low-income users by



- 3 -
providing stand posts rather than houaehold connections in some
neighborhoods and to include a pilot project for low-cost sanitation
through the construction of pit latrines. At the end of the Project most
of the 520,000 consumers served with piped water -- about half of the
population in the seven towns -- had individual household connections
(722), while the rest were served with communal stand posts, as shown in
Annex 3. About 16? were connected to sewers and another 16? had septic
tanks (Annex 3).
7.           The Second Water Supply Project, which recently became
effective, is part of a larger program designed to improve and extend
piped water supply from 50? to 80? of the population in the seven major
towns as well as to improve sewerage. A follow-up project for Small
Towns Water and Sanitation with IDA assistance is in preparation, which
would extend the water supply and sanitation coverage to the large
majority of the population in the small towns and rural growth centers,
including cost recovery and community participation. Other donors,
notably UNICEF and DANIDA, are assisting the Government with sizable
projects for rural water supply.
8.          A key feature of the Project was to transfer the
responsibility for water and sewerage for four towns (Masaka, Mbale,
Mbarara, and Tororo) from WDD to NWSC by the end of the Project period
in addition to the three (Kampala, Jinja, and Entebbe) which were
already under NWSC. Being part of the Government, WDD is unable to
sustain the existing water supply and sewerage installations in the rest
of the country in spite of several years of effort for institutional and
financial reform. NWSC, as a parastatal body, is more able to sustain
the services in the seven towns because of its financial and operational
independence from the Government. The Project design contained tne
unrealistic expectation that WDD could be transformed into a quasi-
parastatal body with similar characteristics to NWSC. In retrospect it
might have been better to transfer the four additional towns to NWSC at
the start of the Project rather than to expect WDD to raise them to a
performance level from which they would henceforth be sustainable by
NWSC.
9.          Direct responsibility for project implementation lay with
the Project Coordination Unit, created during the preceding Engineering
Credit and initially located in MWMD. It performed this function quite
effectively, but may have retarded the improvement of implementation
capacity in NWSC and WDD for subsequent projects. More emphasis is
being placed in follow-up projects to build up the capacity in the line
agencies involved.
10.         The relatively low emphasis in the Proje:t concept on leak
detection, leak repair, and metering was probably justified because of
the very low reliability of the system at the start of the Project, both
in terms of insufficient water supplied into the network to meet the
demand and frequent interruptions in the supply even for those who
normally got water from  .ieir water tap at least part of the day. This
situation had to be rectified before the other, more elaborate, water
rationalization measures could be vigorously pursued. The Government's
reluctance to raise water rates was partly related to the difficult of



- 4 -
charging a higher flat rate (without metering) for a highly erratic
supply to a large proportion of consumers (see Part I, Para. 21).
11.         Following the construction of some pit latrines in the first
half of the Project, no further work was carried out on this component
during the second half. The implementation of this component was
initially slow, showing a lack of interest as compared to other
construction. Progress was assessed during two supervision missions in
1985 and 1986 and recommendations for the improvement of the work on
this component made, including the need for more frequent supervision.
The Rural Water and Sanitation Group in Nairobi played a strong role in
the formulation and initial supervision of the component, which abruptly
halted in the middle of the Project, probably because of changes in
staff and program priorities. The difficulties that are normally
encountered with this kind of work are different from those associated
with conventional civil works construction, which may have contributed
to the low priority given to the component. Neither WDD, which was one
of the implementing agencies, nor the Kampala City Council (KCC), which
was not, had the human, financial and managerial resources to properly
organize this work. Health education was limited to the training of a
few health inspectors. Attempts are now being made to mount a new pilot
program for low-cost sanitation by KCC through the PAPSCA Project
(Credit No. 2088-UG of February 1, 1990).
S. Pro3ject Implementation and Results
12.         In spite of a civil war and other adverse conditions
throughout Project implementation, the water supply and sanitation
conditions improved markedly during the period (see Part I, Para. 6).
Great credit for this is due to the Borrower, the Implementing Agency,
the contractor and consultants, and Bank staff. Even though the
financial and institutional aims were too ambitious in retrospect,
considerable progress was nevertheless made by NWSC even in these
respects, which has enabled NWSC to meet the financial and institutional
conditions agreed upon with the Bank before the follow-up Project become
effective in January 1991 (see Part I, Section H).
13.         While the Project was successful in meeting the physical
targets of rehabilitating the schemes, it only partly fulfilled the
ambitious targets of improving the institutional capability of the
organizations involved. The National Water and Sewerage Corporation
(NWSC), which by the end of the Project was responsible for water and
sanitation in the major seven towns, was considerably strengthened
through the project. However, the Water Development Department (WDD) of
the Ministry of Water and Mineral Development (MWMD) continued to be
organizationally and financially incapable of sustaining -- let alone
expanding -- the water supply and sanitation facilities in the rest of
the cluntry. It was agreed during Project implementation that a mjor
reorgan:zation of WDD would be required and a plan for reorganization
was developed, for implementation in the proposed Small Towns Water and
Sanitation Project.



5-
Civil Works
14.         The physical implementation of the Project was carried out
on time. The only exception was the construction of four staff houses by
a local contractor, which were 80 percent completed and then abandoned
by the contractor (see Part I, Section L). By the beginning of 1988 the
rehabilitation of the water and sewerage treatment plants and the
planned replacements in the distribution system were completed and the
systems were in operation. This was remarkable considering that a civil
war, resulting in a change of government, took place during the Project
period. Two minor problems became apparent when the rehabilitated
pumping station began operations. One is the frequent interruption of
the pumping of raw water for the water treatment plants at MbaLara,
Tororo and Mbale due to siltation at the old river intakes, which is one
of the reasons these plants operate far below capacity. Regular
mechanical or manual desilting could have improved the performance of
the works but was not carried out. The second was a burst at a joint in
the 17 km long old rising main at Mbale near the pumping station when
the pumps were operated at full capacity. The pumping rate at the Mbale
station was subsequently cut in half. NWSC plans to rectify these faults
as part of the Second Water Supply Project.
Sanitation: Pit Latrines and Septic Tanks
15.         The aim of the low-cost sanitation component was to
demonstrate the benefits from the construction of pit latrines combined
with health education. In the absence of a definition of the benefits
it is difficult to judge to what extent this aim was met. Only several
dozen public and family latrines were built by a contractor (39 in
Kampala) and at a cost which far exceeds the affordability of the low-
income population, without any form of cost recovery. Neither were the
institutional and financial mechanisms created for the self-sustained
continuation of the program (see Part I, Para. 11).
16.         Another activity in the field of sanitation was the periodic
emptying of household septic tanks. Nine septic tank emptiers were
bought under the Project but the responsibility for their use became a
point of disagreement between NWSC and KCC (and city councils in the
other towns), which undoubtedly contributed to their very low
utilization. Meanwhile, raw sewage flowing from septic tanks that have
filled up with sludge poses a health hazard throughout the towns. What
little material is collected by the trucks is often dumped
indiscriminately rather than at the sewage treatment plznts. The lesson
from the experience with pit latrines and septic tanks is that equipment
should normally not be supplied, nor programs involving community
participation launched, not even in a rehabilitation project, unless
thorough preparations have been made for appropriate institutional and
financial mechanisms, and all parties concerned have agreed on a work
plan. These guidelines are part of the follow-up projects in the
sector.



- 6-
Technical Assistance and Training
17.         The implementation of technical assistance to NWSC and the
training component was seriously delayed, mainly due to the security
situation in the country. The experts were finally in place in the
beginning of 1988, mostly in line positions. Their presence was probably
a key factor in the rapid improvement in the performance of NWSC, as was
the economic recovery program of the new government. At the end of the
Project, NWSC was able to operate the water and sanitation schemes with
its own human and financial resources (aided by continued technical
assistance at NWSC headquarters) and had a dynamic program of
registering consumers through block mapping, leak detection and repair,
and prompt billing and disconnection in the case of default (including
institutional users). Outstanding arrears from Government were cleared
and tariffs increased by an average of 60 percent in mid-1990, making
NWSC financially viable for the first time in two decades.
18.         As part of the Project, a $194 million program for expansion
of water supply and sewerage in the seven towns was prepared, including
drawings, which was subsequently appraised in November 1989. Part of the
program is being financed by IDA as a follow-up project (the Second
Water Supply Project, Credit 2124-UG), costing $118 million, with co-
financing from the EC, Germany, Austria and Italy.
19.         Training started in earnest around the middle of project
implementation after a long delay in formulating a program and engaging
consultants for this purpose. A number of professionals were sent for
specialized studies abroad, but the main part of the training, which
consisted of in-country courses for numerous artisans of various
specializations, accountants, clerks, etc., was implemented only in the
second half of the Project period. It is evident in retrospect that this
was a key activity for the strengthening of NWSC, since many employees
in the water sector had very little occasion to work in their profession
in the preceding years, when many schemes were in serious disrepair,
available funds far too little, and almost no revenue collected by NWSC.
The low remuneration of counterpart staff and trainees paid by NWSC
adversely effected training. .'. thorough assessment of the training
provided and of what was achieved still remains to be done and should
precede the engagement of training consultants under the follow-up
Project.
20.         While the Economic Rate of Return is estimated to be around
18 percent, during the appraisal of the Project in 1984 it was estimated
at 20 percent. The physical targets were largely met and the costs were
close to the estimates (see Part III, Table 6).
B. Borrower's Financial Performance During Proiect Implementation
21.         NWSC Financial Performance.  The financial performance of
NWSC was problematic from the onset of the Project and fell short of
appraisal targets. The financial statements, including both appraisal
estimates and actual results for FY84-89, are given in Annex 1. Whereas
prior to the Project, NWSC had consistently experienced difficulties in



- 7 -
generating and collecting revenues to cover normal operating expenses,
the tariff increase in May 1964 combined with intensified collection
efforts, Government commitment to reduce its share of NWSC's accounts
receivables and Government agreement to raise tariffs during
implementation to adequately cover operating costs and a progressive
share of depreciation were expected to improve NWSC's financial position
significantly. However, poor billing and collection (in May 1985 only
10-152 of potential revenues were being collected) were cited along with
tariff structure deficiencies as initially contributing to low revenues,
but it was considered by the Bank and Government to be inequitable to
raise tariff levels until these problems were resolved. Later on, high
inflation and repeated devaluation of the Ugandan shilling required
substantial tariff increases to meet the increased operating costs, but
although NWSC submitted requests, Government granted actual increases
only after long delays. Thus NWSC experienced cash flow problems such
that reduced expenditures did not cover the required operation and
maintenance costs. Moreover, when NWSC took over responsibility from
WDD for the four additional towns in 1988, there was a very limited
recorded consumer base for billing and collection, thereby further
burdening NWSC's already weak financial position.
22.         Improvements were expected through the technical assistance
program which included support for a block mapping exercise beginning in
Kampala to improve consumer registration, recruitment of a revenue
accountant to oversee billing and collection improvements, and
modification and rationalization of the tariff structure, including
metering of large domestic customers. However, due to the civil strife
and its effect on the economy, the proposed improvements could be
initiated only when political stability was restored to the country and
were therefore postponed nearly to the end of the Project, until early
1988.
23.         The block mapping exercise in Kampala which is to be
extended to the other six NWSC towns under the follow-on Project, along
with improvements in billing and collections, tariff increases during
July 1987 (1400Z), April 1989 (360Z), December 1989 (602), and
substantially reduced inflation are now projected to restore NWSC's cash
position beginning in FY91 to a surplus and even permit it to provide a
contribution to the capital cost of the follow-on Project. In addition,
Government agreed in November 1989 to more frequent than annual tariff
adjustments which the Minister for Water can decide without seeking
prior approval from Cabinet. Therefore, while the financial objectives
for NWSC under the Project were ambitious given its prior history and
the fact that so few customers were receiving a reasonable service, the
significant actions taken during Project implementation were
instrumental in moving the organization toward a much improved and more
financially viable institution shortly thereafter. In hindsight, the
timetable for the financial objective for cost recovery, which was to be
in effect from the very beginning of the Project, was questionable for a
rehabilitation project without a significant consumer base (see Annex
2).



- 8 -
24.         Arrears on Government Accounts.  Government was consistently
in default of payment of water charges by more than the 60 days targeted
during appraisal. While payment of arrears of water charges as of June
30, 1984 by various Government ministries to NWSC was required as a
condition of effectiveness, charges outstanding from Government and
parastatals deteriorated to about 200 days as of October 31, 1989. In
hindsight, the requirement was considered to be too strict and 90 days
is being targeted under the follow-on project to be achieved within
three years. NWSC has started an information campaign and agreed to
undertake disconnections, computerization of billings, closer attention
to follow-up of customers in arrears and installation of meters at all
customer sites in order to meet this objective in the near term.
25.         Government Counterpart Contribution.  With regard to the
counterpart contribution of the Project, Government did not pay the
local contributions in a timely manner, resulting in considerable
arrears to consultants preparing the follow-on Project, the local
contractor constructing project houses and foreign contractors for their
local currency payments. Bank staff had recognized this possibility and
as a result required the Government to establish, as a condition of
effectiveness, a Project Advance Account with an initial deposit of
USh 90 million to be replenished on a quarterly basis. However, for a
variety of reasons, including misuse, the Government closed the account.
The Government has since provided evidence that payments of arrears to
consultants have been made. The overall budgetary constraints of the
Government and economic downturn during Project implementation
contributed to the difficulty in obtaining counterpart funds. A Project
Account will be used to facilitate Government contributions during the
follow-on Project whereby the Government's contribution will be required
to be deposited at the beginning of each quarter.
26.         WDD Financial Obligations.  The performance of WDD with
respect to its financial obligations also fell short of appraisal
expectations. WDD was to maintain its accounts separately from those of
other MWMD departments. However, as early as May 1985 Bank staff
considered that preparation of separate 'commercial" accounts would be
difficult since this varied from normal government accounting
requirements. Instead, Bank staff thought that it would be of more
value to encourage MWMD to maintain a separate account and bank account
for WDD revenues to show revenues from individual towns and regions.
Since AfDB was proposing technical assistance to identify improvements
to the Ministry's operations and accounting, further action by the Bank
was deferred until their consultant's report was completed, to avoid
possible duplication of effort. In the end, separate accounts were not
maintained, but WDD is currently proposing establishment of a self-
accounting system for the remaining towns under its jurisdiction.
27.         WDD was also to revalue the fixed assets of the four project
towns of Masaka, Mbarara, Mbale and Tororo to ensure that this
information was available at the time of transfer to NWSC and to apply
tariffs common to NWSC to these four towns prior to their transfer, both
of which were not done. The common tariffs were applied only when the
four towns were transferred to NWSC, and the valuation of fixed assets
is now required by NWSC during the follow-on Project. This poor



performance highlights the need for a clearer financial policy for WDD
for its future operations and a considerable strengthening of its
financial operations.
I. Sustainability
28.         NWSC is now a viable institution insofar as it is able to
meet recurrent costs and to reserve a modest amount for capital
investment from its revenue and manages its operations with the help of
a few foreign experts at headquarters. These improvements have been
accompanied by a recognition by the management of NWSC that the
Corporation can deliver a better service than in the past and even
improve its operations through its own efforts. Rapid progress in the
consumer registration program, faster billing and enforcement of
payment, and the substantial tariff increase in mid-1990, together with
a big fall in inflation, have given the organization much higher revenue
and with it renewed strength and confidence. Greater efficiency is now a
central operational aim of NWSC, with high priority placed on consumer
registration, prompt billing and disconnection for non-payment, leak
detection and repair, and meter installation.
29.         Various operational difficulties and maintenance problems
prevent most of the water works from operating near peak capacity. The
main reason for this is in most cases an unreliable power supply, mainly
due to the long-overdue overhaul of the generating sets at Jinja
(assisted by a Bank project), scheduled to be completed in 1-2 years.
Other reasons are problems with siltation at the water intake and
pumping constraints (see Part I, Para. 14). Since the causes of the low
operating efficiency have been determined and remedial measures are
planned as part of the Second Water Supply Project, the operating
efficiency of the works should improve in the next 2-3 years.
30.         Assistance provided for WDD through the Project was mainly
intended for creating better conditions in the four additional towns
that wete handed over to NWSC near the end of the Project, which left
WDD woefully weak and unable to operate, let alone rehabilitate, the
existing water and sanitation works in the other towns and in rural
areas. Issues related to improved coverage in the rest of the country
form part of a joint donor program, in which the Bank plays a leading
role, including the creation of the necessary institutional and
financial mechanisms to rehabilitate, expand and sustain water supply
and sanitation in small towns and rural areas.
31.         In an economy with a chronic shortage of foreign exchange,
the public utility usually has great difficulty in purchasing spare
parts and other materials with foreign exchange. This is also the case
here, where NWSC has relied on projects assisted by the Bank and other
donors to provide most, if not all, the imported spare parts and
materials for operation and maintenance of the schemes and of other
equipment owned by NWSC, such as vehicles. As long as there are donor-
assisted follow-up projects, the existing equipment can be sustained,
but the establishing of realistic foreign exchange mechanisms for



- 10 -
importing minor equipment and materials in NWSC and in the Government
shoild be part of future projects.
J. Bank Performance
32.         Through the Project the Bank has provided the Government
with valuable and sound advice on water supply and sanitation strategy,
which has proven to be implementable in the short and the long-run. The
concept of providing first those who can afford it with improved water
supply and sanitation in the seven major towns rather than first
targeting the poorest, i.e. mostly the rural population, has resulted in
a nearly self-sustained water supply operation for the majority of the
residents of the seven major towns, with a minimum of Government
involvement. Government and the donor are now concentrating human and
financial resources on the population that remains unserved. Targetting
the poorest first would not have been sustainable given the sector's
weak institutions and Government's difficult fiscal situation (see Part
I, Para. 6).
33.         Supervision was done at regular intervals even during
periods of civil strife and covered the various activities under the
Project well, with the possible exception of low-cost water and
sanitation. Insufficient follow-up was provided on latrine construction
and health education and on water provided through stand posts, where
the results of the pilot projects were not sufficiently evaluated and
did therefore not provide an adequate base for the design of follow-up
activities in subsequent projects (see Part I, Para. 11).
34.         Bank supervision missions realized in the early stages of
implementation that some of the financial covenants, particularly those
relating to VDD, could not be met because of the overall economic and
political situation in the country. While the weaknesses of the previous
Government and civil unrest were in large part to blame, it appears in
retrospect that the financial goals were too ambitious (see Part I,
Section H).
K. Borrower Performance
35.         The low implementation capacity of NWSC and WDD led to their
weak performance during project preparation and in the early stages of
implementation. The strengthening of the implementing agencies --
mainly NWSC and to a lesser extent WDD -- was a major Project component.
It is therefore not surprising that the implementation of the physical
works, which relies heavily on consultants and contractors with a
minimum of supervision from the implementing agency, progreesed rapidly,
while the technical assistance and training components, which demand
more initiative from the implementing agency, lagged far behind. The
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which was meant to fill the gap, could
not proceed more rapidly without the consent and collaboration of NWSC
and MWMD.



- 11 -
36.         Low staff salaries and working morale affected NWSC and MWMD
throughout the Pro4ect period. This provided an unfavorable environment
in the country for progress, such as greater working efficiency,
financial discipline in organizations, and prompt payments in local
currency. Specific problems identified during implementation were long
delays in paying contractors for the local currency portion, resulting
at times in work stoppages and cost escalations, particularly for local
contractors (see Part I, Section E) and a poor management of the water
and waste water treatment works once they were completed. Other problems
related to low working morale were improper accounting and delays in
auditing.
37.           The Project Account, which was opened to effect prompt
payments from the Government in local currency, was not used. Long
delays in local payments occurred, with serious consequences in one case
where the construction of four staff houses by a local contractor was
not completed (see Part I, Section L). The Special Account was also not
fully used as intended, with no replenishment sought, creating a big
backlog of SOEs for reimbursement. An amount of $47,687.75 remains to
be recovered from the Special Account. Strenuous efforts are being made
to recover this balance from the Borrower. An undisbursed balance from
the Credit of $1,747.05 remains, which will be cancelled as soon as the
Special Account has been fully recovered.
38.         Probably the most serious shortcoming in the Government's
performance as it affected the Project was the long delays in the
approval of tariff increases which, by the time they finally came into
force, were overtaken by high inflation (up to 360 percent per year; see
Part I, Section H). While tariff increases may be politically costly,
especially as long as the water supply systems provide a very poor
service, the Government had agreed with the Bank that tariff increases
should keep pace with improvements in service. Only now, when the wat3r
supply for most consumers in the seven towns has been restored close to
what it was twenty years ago, has the Government been able to raise
tariffs sufficiently to meet recurrent costs.
39.         Another area of low efficiency on the part of the
implementing agency was customer registration, billing, collection, and
leak detection. While progress in these fields should be accompanied, if
not preceded, by the restoration of the water and sanitation services to
a satisfactory level, cost recovery, which was an agreed aim for the end
of the Project, depended heavily on progress made in improving these
indicators. The Project did however succeed in creating the
institutional and policy foundations for a vigorous improvement program
in these fields, which is now in progress as part of the follow-up
Project.
40.         Supervision of consultants and contractors was carried out
mostly by P1CU and was one of the strong points of the Project.
L. Consultant Performance
41.         The consulting work was split between two consultants, one
for the three towns which were under NWSC at the start of the Project



- 12 -
and another for the four towns which were under WDD. This created some
problems with supervision and coordination, because the consultants used
different design standards and guidelines at times. Some duplication was
needed in supervising the consultants by PCU, and the supervision of
consultants would have been simpler had there been only one consultant.
42.         Both consulting firms proved to be technically competent in
design and supervision. One consultant was blamed, however, for
technical problems which arose on the intakes of three water works and
on the long rising main at Mbale (see Part I, Section E). The
consultant claimed that since they were asked only to rehabilitate the
works they simply followed the old design. The issue was never fully
resolved and only temporary remedies were taken, which reduced the
operating efficiency. This was one of the reasons why the borrower did
not ask this consultant to submit a proposal for the follow-up Project,
preferring to negotiate instead with the other consultant on a sole
source basis and asking it to propose the necessary design changes. This
could have been avoided had the consultant better reviewed the scope of
work before agreeing to it and had the terms of reference been clearer,
based on the results of the preceding engineering credit, that the old
works had these serious deficiencies even before they fell into
disrepair.
43.         The contractor for the major civil works performed very
well, in spite of civil unrest and other adversities, undoubtedly
assisted by prompt direct payments from the World Bank office in Nairobi
for withdrawal applications. This was in contrast to the local
contractor which never completed the four staff houses (see Part I,
Section E). Late payments and high inflation led to disagreements over
his claims for cost escalation payments. His contract was terminated in
mid-1990, but settlement of claims is still pending. In the meantime
NWSC has agreed to complete the staff houses out of its own funds.



- 13 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Background
Sector Development
44.         The World Bank (IDA), EEC, AfDB, IDB, UNICEF, DANIDA,
Governments of Germany, Austria, and several expatriate non-governmental
agencies are active in both the urban and rural areas throughout the
country. However, the UN/UNDP sponsored International Drinking Water
and Sanitation Decade (IDWSSD-1981 to 1990) is at its end with very
little Ugandan achievement. A decade is too short a time considering
the political upheavals that Uganda has suffered. A more realistic
period is perhaps two decades, given the necessary massive investments,
to achieve the IDWSSD objectives.
45.         A report has been prepared, with UNDP/World Bank (RWSG-
Nairobi) assistance, if an action plan which covers important aspects
such as:
- Sector legislation
- National Urban Water Supply, SewerageiSanitation Program
- National Rural Water Supply, Sewerage/Sanitation Program
- Sector reorganization
Institutional Changes
46.         There have been two changes of Government since the date of
signing of the Development Credit Agreement on November 28, 1984. The
present National Resistance Movement Government assumed power in January
1986 and the Ministry of LPrds, Mineral and Water Resources (MLMWR) was
split into two Ministries namely:
(a)   Ministry of Water and Mineral Development (MWMD), and
(b)   Ministry of Lands and Surveys (MLS).
47.         All the responsibilities and obligations of World Bank (IDA)
Credit 1110-UG and 1510-UG under the former Ministry (MLMWR) passed onto
the new Ministry (MWMD).
48.         In about April/May 1988, a Uganda First Infrastructure
Project was identified as a follow-up to the present World Bank (IDA)
Credit 1510-UG, incorporating additional components for Kampala City
Council (KCC) such as rates assessment, markets upgrading, street
lighting, urban drainage, rehabilitation of roads, and institutional
strengthening (KCC, MLS, MOLG, MHUD, etc.). A new Project Coordination
Unit (PUJC) was formed under the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Development (MPED) with key members seconded from the then existing PCU



- 14 -
under MWMD. All affairs of the former PCU under MWMD are now handled by
the new PCU.
B.    The Protect
Role of the Project
49.         After two decades of political unrest, civil ware and having
inherited a shattered economy with almost all of the basic
infrastructure in ruins, coupled with destruction/looting, neglect, lack
of maintenance, flight of skilled/experienced man-power, every section
of the Government's administrative machinery was in urgbnt need of
revival/rehabilitation. The role of the project was to restore, as a
start, the basic infrastructure with respect to water, sewerage and
sanitation in the seven Project towns, so that economic activity may
once again be stimulated. In addition, with the improvement of services
in these towns, it was anticipated that good management techniques,
availability of trained local man-power and financial self sustainance
of institutions would have been acquired. To a limited extent, the
above objectives have been achieved by the Project despite the fact that
the rest of the Government's supportive institutions requires
rehabilitation and the economic situation needs improvement to
motivate/retain its personnel with adequate remuneration/living
conditions.
Executing Agency
50.         The executing agency responsible is the MWMD (formerly MLMR)
through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) specifically established with
adequately experienced staff. The PCU headed by a Project Coordinator
directly reports to the Permanent Secretary, MWMD. Staff for PCU were
seconded from the WDD and MWSC together with the support of three
expatriates, internationally recruited under the previous Credit 1110-
UG. The responsibilities of the former PCU under the Credit 1510-UG
have been taken over by the PCU operating under the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Development (MPED).
51.         The World Bank (IDA) Credits 1110-UG, 1510-UG and the
present follow-up Projects under Project Preparation Facility (PPF) are
all directed to benefit multiple institutions under various Ministries.
The major beneficiary under all these is the Water, Sewerage/Sanitation
Sector under MWMD. To overcome the weak institutional structure of the
existing Governmental agencies and to facilitate administration, PCU's
were justifiably established to coordinate the activities of such multi-
beneficiary projects. In addition to its originally intended function
of coordinating activities, the PCU has increasingly taken on project
implementation and management and can be said to have discharged all its
responsibilities to a successful conclusion. However, despite these
achievements, there is unfounded/unfair domestic recriminations/
criticism/bickering of PCU's role, especially from principal beneficiary
institutions, largely due to unawareness of the concepts. It is hoped
that, coupled with the institutional strengthening process and the



- 15 -
return of the personnel from PCU upon project completion, the
beneficiary institutions would be able in future to undertake the same
tasks that the PCU now accomplishes.
52.         The establishment of the PCU under World Bank (IDA) Credits
lllO-UG and 1510-UG was a condition for fulfillment in the respective
Development Credit Agreements between the Government and the World Bank
(IDA).
The National Development Plan and the Project
53.         In 1984, under the previous Obote regime, the National
Development Plan was called the Revised Recovery Program and US$106.9
million (14.5Z of the total budget) was allocated to the water/sewerage
sector.
54.         Under the NRM's Recovery and Development Plan (RDP) 1987/88
to 1990/91, US$131.38 million (10.2? of the total budget) was allocated
to the water/sewerage sector.  In the present RDP 1988/89 to 1991/92,
the sector allocation is Us$85.19 million (5.09? of the total budget).
For ease of budgetary control, all components of the Project come under
the Social Infrastructure Sector.
Sources of Finan.e
55.         The NWSC Technical Assistance under Part F of the Project is
partly funded by the EEC and the West German Government (via GTZ), both
under Grant Aid packages.
Management Advisor                          - EEC then GTZ
Finance Manager                             - EEC then GTZ
Chief Engineer                              - GTZ
Revenue Accountant                          - GTZ
Workshop Manager                            - GTZ
Mains Superintendent                        - EEC
Stationary Plan Superintendent              - IDA Credit 1510-UG
Mobile                                      - IDA Credit 1510-UG
Block Mapping Exercise                      - IDA Credit 1510-UG
56.         The sewerage works in Mbarara is under AfDB funding
assistance and is about 80-902 complete.
57.         The total cost of the remainder of the Project is estimated
to be SDR 26.9 million (foreign) and SDR 4.0 million (local). The
foreign component is wholly financed by the World Bank (IDA) and the
local component by the Government.
Project Preparation
58.         The Project was prepared under the previnus World Bank (IDA)
Credit lllO-UG to be followed up for implementation under the Project.
The PCU and the World Bank (IDA) assisted in the standardization of



- 17 -
Procurement
64.         There were 28 contracts entered into up to the project
closing date of September 30, 1989. Eleven of these were prepared by
PCU, 16 by consultants and one by the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development (MHUD). All documentation for the contracts followed the
World Bank (IDA) guidelines. Some comments on procurement are as unders
(a)   Local cash flow problems continue to hamper progress due to
long delays in payment. Expatriate contractors have been
able to cope, due to the small proportion of local funds in
comparison to the overall contract sum. On the other hand,
local contractors are adversely affected by these delays in
local payment, due to the inflationary cost of materials in
the local market. Major casualties of these delays are the
MHUD prepared contract for four houses in Luzira, Kampala,
which are still incomplete and the expatriate consultancy
contract for the seven Towns Water (except Kampala) and
sewerage (except Mbarara) design contract.
(b)   One of the problems of rehabilitation works is that
services, however poor, have to be maintained and the
situation rapidly changeable to keep systems working. The
rehabilitation contracts were awarded some time around mid
1985 -- a period approximately some years after the original
assessment. Hence it is inevitable that changes in the
systems had to be taken into account during implementation.
These were accommodated by a series of variation orders.
For this type of works (civil, mechanical, electrical) it is
considered that a turnkey type of contract
(design/coiistruct/commission) would have been preferable to
the usual norms adopted and even possibly would have given
some savings.
(c)   The direct I-ansfer of the procured equipment/vehicles to
the NWSC ar- City Councils posed problems of taxation
locally anu channeling of the goods through the PCU/MWD had
to be used to overcome this. The Development Credit
Agreement provisions are not clear/deficient in declaring
that all beneficiaries/recipients of the goods/services
obtaine. from the proceeds of the Credit are tax exempt.
(d)   The Government has to date been unable to meet its
contractual commitments with regard to the technical
assistance personnel supporting the PCU in respect oft
-     Transport provision (vehicle, driver, fuel and
maintenance),
-     Payments to watchmen,
due to lack of vehicles and local funds. Previously,
accommodation and furnishings posed problems but were



- 18 -
resolved subsequently to some extent. Specific provisions
should be made in future contracts.
(e)   Insurances of the works, goods equipment, vehicles procured
under the Credit became invalid at the time of greatest need
-- periods of insecurity that prevailed during the civil
unrests of July 1985 and January 1986, as these were
purported to be wwar risks" not covered by the policies.
Responses to the invitations/tenders were good with a wide
international/local interest.
Costs and Disbursements
65.         The total Project cost estimated at appraisal was equivalent
to SDR 29.59 million composed as follows:
SDR 21.81 million -- Foreign - IDA
SDR  5.09 million  -- Local   - IDA
SDR  2.69 million  -- Local   - GOU
29.59 million        Total
66.         The Project costs were subject to international market
fluctuations and the US dollar which was approximately equivalent to the
SDR at appraisal (June 1984) has gradvally lost its value with 1 SDR -
US$1.30 to US$1.35 in 1989. As a result of this, the disbursements from
the Special Account of the Bank of Uganda has proved to be more
expensive than it should have been..
67.         The Ugandan shilling too vw  subject to these international
market forces including the fall in pri3.:e of its major foreign exchange
earner, coffee. During the course of the Project the following average
exchange rates were in effect:



- 19 -
Year                     Average Exchange Rate
1984                     lUS$  =      500 UShs (old)
1985                           -      1300
1986                           m      1400
May 14, 1987                   -      1400
May 15, 1987                   .        60       (new)
June 30, 1988                  .       150       (new)
December 3, 1988               -       165
March 8, 1989                  -       200
October 25, 1989               -       340
January 1990                   m       370
February 1990                  -       375
May 1990                       -       379
June 1990                      -       384
August 1990                    -       400
September 1990                 -       480
68.         On May 15, 1987 a new currency was launched bearing the same
name as the old. For purposes of conversion of the old into new, one
hundred (100) old UShs was equivalent to one (1) new UShs. In addition,
a conversion tax/levy of 30S was charged.
69.         The Project Advance Account (USh Account) was never utilized
for obscure reasons for disbursement of local payments. All local
payments were through the normal departmental channels.
Performance of Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers and
the World Bank (IDA)
(a)   Consultants (including Technical Assistance Personnel)
Once the Borrower/Consultant/Bank relationship was
established, the consultants employed on the Project were
most helpful, cooperative and welcomed
suggestions/criticisms. To avoid mutual Borrower/Bank
misunderstandings and embarrassment, the Borrower should
make the position clear that the consultant is self employed
and is not the Bank's agent/spokes-person. Where weak
institutions exists, this situation sadly prevails, with
projects left entirely to the care of consultants having run
into difficulties consequently. The principal causes for
this is the lack of exposure/experience of local personnel
to manage projects of this type.
(b)   Contractors (including Suppliers)
The performance of the expatriate contractors was generally
good but that of the local contractors poor. The causes for
the latter's poor performance can be attributed to "unfair"
economic conditions prevailing in Uganda for locals to
compete on an equal footing with expatriates.



- 20 -
(c)   The World Bank (IDA) missions to Uganda helped in the
initial identification of the Project and assisted in the
preparations for implement4tion.
Having had first hand experience of the existing weak
institutional structures, the setting-up of the PCU's are
attributed to it. The general working relationship has been
friendly, cooperative, and quick to respond on project
matters.
Institutional Performance
70.   (a)   NWSCt The NWSC is faced with the difficulty in collecting
revenue due in part, to the limitation in services being
provided. Only at Entebbe it is possible to ensure a 24-
hour water supply to all consumers.
The general management, financial and organizational
capabilities have been strengthened by inputs of technical
assistance personnel funded by EEC, GTZ and World Bank
(IDA). Except for the Management Advisor, the rest of the
positions have line functions. The effectiveness of the
technical assistance (TA) inputs have as yet to be assessed,
the key indicator being the developed capabilities of the
local counterparts to take ever. If TA is to be extended,
then a review of the methods in Utransfer of
knowledge/skills" should be made, including a change of both
expatriate and local personnel as necessary. The Managing
Director should be capable of giving an independent and
unbiased assessment report.
The object of all the investments into the NWSC is to make
it a financially viable parastatal. Except for the sewerage
operations in Mbarara, all other water and sewerage systems
in the Project Towns are under NWSC control. With delay in
approvals of tariffs, cash-flow problems continue to plague
the NWSC.
(b)   WDD:  Investment in the WDD has been very low in comparison
to its responsibilities. Except for technical assistance
provided under the Project (part-time -- WDD/PCU) to
strengthen the Planning, Design and Documentation Unit in
May/June 1988, there have been no major inputs of other TA
personnel like those given to NWSC.
The World Bank (IDA) having realized this, has in
association with UNDP, made an Organization and Management
Study Report for Government's acceptance of its proposals.
Most of WDD's water supply/sewerage operations are in a poor
state, needing urgent rehabilitation/expansion. Any tariff
implementation should be imposed only after the systems are
put back into reasonable operation.



- 21 -
Staff Recruitment, Training, and Development
71.         Hajor constraints to development are the difficulties of
engaging fully qualified and experienced local personnel under the
prevailing terms and economic conditions. There are well educated
personnel in the institutions, but may lack the exposure and working
experience required to ensure full and efficient operations within the
Corporation.
72.         Prior to the current project, there has been a long period
of little capital works being undertaken, and no major capital project
activities. The beneficiary institutions of the Credit were not staffed
adequately to enable them to undertake the work, this being made the
responsibility of the PCU. It is now important that the beneficiary
institutions are fully involved in the execution of the Project, so as
to enable them to undertake the work in the future.
73.         Uncompetitive employment conditions applied during the
project execution are likely to continue in the future, making it
difficult for the institutions to attract, motivate and retain staff.
Until such time as the economy stabilizes and employment conditions
become more competitive it will be difficult for the institutions to
recruit experienced staff and technical assistance personnel will be
needed, both to undertake work and to provide training for local staff.
74.         Training of personnel should be primarily undertaken in
Uganda in respect of routine tasks, generally in-house, and on-the-job.
Overseas training should only be arranged where this cannot be provided
locally, and will accordingly be limited to specialized work and for
very senior staff.
D.    Extraordinary Occurrences
75.         There were two changes of Government during the course of
the Project. Force Majeure conditions prevailed during the execution of
the project contracts. A number of vehicles belonging to the Project
were taken at gun-point with most not recovered while some were damaged
beyond repair. On account of the civil unrest, a 4-month extension of
time was granted to the main civil contractors Messrs. Josef Riepl
including costs (8Z average on contract sums) and to Messrs. Biwater.
Working conditions were beset with frequent harassment at road blocks
and the social life onfined to one's own premises. Venturing out after
dark is and has been a risk. Security has had ups and downs after the
NRM take over. Currently there is a wave of car robberies and house-
break ins. Lack of UEB power supply in some areas has made matters
worse.



- 22 -
Conclusions
76.         Given the circumstances the Project has undergone, it is a
commendable fact to all those associated that it has almost accomplished
all that it set-out to implement.
77.         With the rehabilitation of the water and sewerage (except
Mbarara) systems in the project towns, a stimulus to the economic and
industrial growth can be expected. This in turn shall create employment
opportunities to the growing population. Moreover, the burden of
fetching and carrying water by women and children would be eased.
including the prevention of water related diseases, so that more time
can be spent on some other productive activity.



- 23 -
UGANDA
Water SUDDIY and Sanltation Rehabilitatlon Pro3ect
Credit 1610-ua
PART III - Sumnary of Statistical Informatlon
1. Related Bank Credits
Title of               Purpose                        Approved        Status
Credit                                                Year/Amount
Water Supply           Feasibility and                1981            Satisfac-
Enginoer               detailed engineering                           torily
Project,               studies for the rehab-                         completed
Cr.1110-UG             Ilitation and expansion                        in 1984
of the water supply
sanitation of seven
major towns, tariff
study, manpower train-
ing study, technical
ssistance, and
provision of various
equlpment
Second Water           As part of a larger            1990            Became
Supply Project,        program for expansion                          effective
Cr.2124-UG             of water supply and                            01/23/91.
sanitation in seven                           Tendering
major towns, expanded                          in progress
water supply and
sanitation in five
towns, strongthen NWSC
and improvo water
legislation
Alleviation            Assist the country$s          109             Coordinator
of Poverty             most vulnerable groups                         has been
and the                through amall-scale                            appointed
Social Costs           villgag  infrastructure;                       and
of Adjustment          primary education                              lmplementa-
Project,               rehabilitation; urban                          tion started
Cr.2088-UC             water supply and
sanitation Improvementc;
and health sorvicoe



. 24 -
UGANDA
Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
Credit 1510-UG
2.    Project Timetable
Item                    Date Planned       Date Revised       Date Actual
- Identification
(Executive Project
Summary)
-  Preparation          06/1983                  -            06/1983
- Appraisal Mission    1011983                   -            10/1983
- Credit
Negotiations                                  -            06/1984
-  Board Approval       05/29/84                 -            07/19/84
- Credit
Signature                                     _            11/28/84
-  Credit
Effectiveness         02/26/85                -            02/26/85
-  Credit
Closing              09/30/89                 -            09/30/89
-  Credit
Completion            03/31/90                -            03/31/90



- 25 -
UGANDA
Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
Credit 1510-UG
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
Apppraisal estimate             5.0   13.0 20.0  25.0  28.0  28.0  28.0
Actual                          2.5   6.0  13.3  20.6  25.2  27.9  28.0
Actual as Z of estimate         50    46    67    82    90    99   100
Date of last disbursement: December 24, 1990
Note: US$47,687.75 remain to be recovered from the
Special Account. All efforts are being made
with the Borrower to do so (see Part I, Para. 37).



- 26 -
UGANDA
Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
4. PROJECT COSTS ANO FINANCING (In Corstant 1984 US3 IIIIon, awolying ths
April 1994 SOR exda reate of $1.041)
A. PROJECT COSTS                   A,oralsal Estimate                 Actual
.-                                      -__ -_                                    _--
Descriotion                   Local Foreign   Total         Local  Foreign   Total
i                  ~~~~~~1. gemaciiiation, replacemigt
and extension of works for:
- Kamraia. Jinja, EnteoOe     1.80    5.76    7.56          0.32     8.62     8.94
- Masaks, kbarara.
Tororo. Oale                1.21     3.36    4.57         0.27     7.52     7.79
- SLO-73TAL                   3.01     9.12    12.13        0.59    16.14    16.73
2. Sucoly of refuse dliosal
ecuigment and septic tank
emDtlers In all 7 towns
- Refuse dIsusl eI.a.         0.37    2.25    2.62          0.01     2.20    2.21
- Setoic tank mtlers                   0.38    0.38         0.01     0.24    0.25
- SW-TOTAL                    0.37     2.63    3.00         0.02     2.44     2.46
3. Low cost sanitatlon and
health edication for all
7 tows
- LOW Cost sanitation         0.38     0.12    0.50                  0.04     0.04
- Heaith education            0.13    0.22    0.35                   0.12    0.12
- SLU-TOTAL                   0.51     0.34    0.85                  0.16    0.16
4. Training. terlnical assist-
ance, and suldes
- Training                    0.01     0.75    0.78         0.23     1.08     1.31
- Technical assistance                 0.75    0.75                  2.04     2.04
- Su.ply of vehicles
to Ml and 00                         0.30    0.30                  1.02     1.02
- Housing for NIC             0.30    0.20    0.50          0.80    0.24      1.04
- Si=ly of office eIlp-
ment for NiC and PCU.
and choalcals for water
works                       0.02     0.18    0.20         0.23    0.23    0.48
- Cownltancy Svics            0.70     2.00    2.70         2.10    3.55    5.65
- SW-TOTAL                    1.03    4.18    5.21          3.38    8.16    11.52
5. Total base cost                4.92    16.27   21.19         3.97    26.90   30.87
6. ContinncgIs (Phys.& prlrc)    3.17    8.47    9.84
7. Total project cost             8.09   22.74   30.83          3.97    28.90   30.87
S. PROJECT FINANCING
IDA Credit                    5.30    22.70   28.00         1.10    26.90   28.00
Gov -Uof up                   2.83      -       2.83        2.87      -       2.87
Total Financing               8.13   22.70   30.83          3.97    26.90   30.87



- 27 -
UGANDA
Water SupplY and Sanitation Rehabilitation Protect
Credit 1510-UG
Comments to Pro1ect Costs and Financing:
Project Cost
Rehabilitation, replacement and extension of workst
1.          The estimates at appraisal for civil works were quite
accurate (including a proportionate amount of physical and price
contingencies), but the share of foreign exchange in the total was 96S
instead of 75Z as estimated. The main reason was probably the need to
import more materials and skilled labor than anticipated because of the
bad economic situation during the unrest in addition to the general
tendency by contractors to charge some of the local currency
expenditures in foreign exchange and then convert to Shillings in the
free market in the face of high inflation.
Supply of refuse disposal equipment and septic tank emptiers in all
seven towns:
2.          Substantially less funds than anticipated were spent on
refuse disposal equipment and septic tank emptiers, largely due to
institutional reasons. The municipal councils did not formally
participate in the project and only played the role of recipients of the
refuse disposal equipment. With septic tank emptying there was a
disagreement about which agency should be responsible for the service.
Low cost sanitation and health education for all seven towns:
3.          The amounts spent on low cost sanitation and health
education were far below the estimates, confirming that only a small
part of this component of the Project was implemented.
Training, technical assistance, and sundries:
4.          This category was over-spent and constituted 37Z of total
cost as compared to 262 estimated at the time of appraisal. The reason
is the general tendency of substituting externally-provided resources
for project implementation when the internal capacity to do so is weak.
Thus more consultancy input, more technical assistance, more vehicles,
more housing, etc.. were provided from the outside. Another, leos
likely, factor may be that the unit costs of the goods and services were
underestimated.
5.          While at the time of appraisal the foreign exchange
expenditure was estimated at 74Z of total project cost, it constituted
in fact 87? due to the higher share of foreign exchange in civil works
(see Note 1 above).



- 28 -
Financing
6.          To finance the larger share of foreign exchange in total
project cost, 96Z of IDA financing was used for foreign exchange rather
than 81Z as anticipated at the time of appraisal.



Cutnulative Disbursement Cr.1510-UG
(in constant 1984 US$ to the SDR)
28
26
24
22
20
1 8
C
.  1 6
14
-12
10
8
6
4
2
12/84 06/85 12/85 06/86 12/86 06/87 12/87 06/88 12/88 06/89 12/89 06/90 12/90
a  Planned
+ Actual



- 30 -
UGANDA
Water SuDDly and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
Credit 1510-UG
6. Project Results
Comments:
1.          No measurable indicators of project implementation and
operation were listed in the SAR of Credit 1510-UG, nor was such a list
prepared during supervision. This Project was immediately followed by
the Second Water Supply Project (Credit 2124-UG). The closing mission
for Credit 1510-UG coincided with the appraisal mission for Credit 2124-
UG and the SAR for Credit 2124-UG describes the situation in the sector
at the time of completion of Credit 1510-UG.
2.          It is doubtful whether the actual economic rate of return
(ERR) of the Project can be calculated with reasonable accuracy because
the "constant price' concept was undermined:(i) inflation varied between
about 50 and 3602 per year during the period of implementation, (ii) the
exchange rate was frequently adjusted but generally lagged far behind
the inflation rate, (iii) the "Window 2" exchange rate, which reflected
the market value of the Ush and on which the ERR calculation at the time
of appraisal was based, was abolished during project implementation.
Also, tariff increases for water supply and sewerage were too infrequent
and came too late to provide a meaningful proxy for the economic value
of water.
3.          The actual ERR is probably close to the estimated 202 at the
time of appraisal. The ERR was estimated during appraisal by comparing
the costs and benefits of increasing water sales by 11.72 million by
1988. The physical implementation targets were met with only slight
delays and within the cost estimates, which would have resulted in a
slight increase of the ERR had the estimated benefits been realized.
The water production from the water works had nearly doubled by 1988,
but various minor operating problems (see Part I, Para. 14) has kept the
production slightly below expectations (about 10-20?) since then.
Taking the costs as estimated during appraisal and reducing the benefits
by 102 results in an estimated actual ERR of 182 (SAR, p. 35).



31 -
T.   Cae loas Wt  1_1 CL weSeat.
;S clon  gt tvc D  esly4lon of Covenont              Co  ents
2.02(a)     OK            Borrower to open a Special Account    Rocovory of a ra      Inino em* I  amount
with the Centrol Bank (In               Is being proceesd by the
accordanco wlth Schedulo 2).            DOlburaem_t Unlt, Nairobi
3.01(e)     OK            Borrower to open end maintain a          Borrower opend occount In March 190h
Project Advance Account with UShe       but *uspended It subequently for
90 million.  Thereafter, the            olloeg   mlousou and disbursed CON
Borrower at the boginning of each       contribution directly henceforth
quorter to deposit tho estimated
amount required to cover project
expenditures during that quarter
not covered by withdrowals from the
Credit.
3.01(f)     OK            Except as Association may agre,          Window Two rate was abolished
all foreign exchange transactions
shall be made at "Window Two'
*xchonge rate.                           _      _
8.02        OK            Borrower shall maintain within
MLMOR the Project Coordination Unit
*ultaLly staffed.
3.04(a)     OK            Borrower to adequately Insure all
goods are procured under the
Project.
4.01(a)     OK            Borrower to causo or maintaln
eparate accounts covering Parts 8,
C, 0, E by departments or agencies
___________   responslblo for the co monent.
4.01(b)     OK             Borrower to maintain separate
accounta covering SOEo and to
retaln documente for one year after
closing.
4.01(c)     OK             Accounts of Ports B, C, 0, E to be
audited and submitted within nine
month$.
Part B - IDD of MLMUR
Part C - Local Authoritios under
ULO
Part D - MON
Part E - NWSC
(Specific opinion required for
SOEs.
4.02(a)     Not met         DDo carry out its water                COU has not roformed VOD to meet
operations In accordance with           public utility  tondaras. Several
public utility practices with           alternativos of how to manaen  the
adequate staff.                         schemes outside the 7 towns are being
studied In a proposed follow-up
project for Small Towns Water A San.
4.08        OK             Borrowor to take all action to          Tariff Increoao   were serlously
enable NWSC:                            delayed, but tariffs are sufficient
(a) to set tariffs to meet              now to meet the agred obligations
obligations of Section 4.04 of the
Project Agroaeent;
OK            (b) to met Section 4.05 Project
Agrement obligations (capital
expenditure limitation).



- 32
- Seton       St  tus       Oo triLon of   Covenont                  Co _nts
4.04        Not Met       Borrower,  xcept as the Association   Eotablishment of a reglter and
m*y agree, ceuse WD  through MLMN       valuatlon of oos ste will be done by
until July 1, lo6 tot                  NW6C, to be followod up under Credit
(a) maintain fixed assets registers   lC10-UO
for water and seweroage la Mosak,
Uberars, Ubalo and Tororo;
(b) revalue a*ssto In operation for
oach of the four towns as of June
80, 1964 and revalue thereafter
using method acceptable to the
Association.
(c) establish uniform tariffs
similar to NWSC under Section 4.04
of the Project Agreement.
4.06        oK            Borrowor to:
(I) pay all outstanding Government
delbt  as at June 30, 1964;
OK            (11) ensuro future Government           Outatanding debts by GOU have ben
Indebtedness not to exceed 60 days.   offset  g inet db4t  owed to it by
NWSC; new covenant Is Included In
agreement for Credit 1510-UC
4.06(a)     OK            SkD to transfer to NWSC by not
later than July 1, 1986:
(a) assets and liabilities of the
four towns;
(b) *11 staff of tho four tAcno.
4.07        OK            Borrower to furnish to the               The responsibilities of NWSC have
Association by January 1, IMG Ito    been revised and proposals made for
legislative proposols to               the restructuring of WODD
rationall th- functions of
Institutions In the water sector.
Proect Asrn _
2.04(t)     Oh            NWSC to Insure all Imported goods.
8.01        OK            NWSC to manago Its affairs In
accordance with sound publilc
utility practices with adequate
staff.                                  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
8.08        OK            NWsC to Insure sgolnet usual risks.
4.0o(a)     OK            NWSC to submit audited accounts by
Independent auditors, within nl,e
months.
4.08        OK            NWSC *hall undertako a revaluation
of aseto as of June 80, 1984, and
annually thereafter. Methods of
revluatlon to be acceptable to the
Association.
4.04(a)     OK            NWSC to increaso  tariffs or take        Tariff Increase  were seriously
other  easures to generate coah to    delayed, but tariffs are sufficient
cover all operating expense  plus       now to mwt the agreed obligations
proportion of depreciation on
revalued assets as follows:
FY80 - 1001 Opl. Expx. * 165 depre.
FY67 - 1001 OpI. Expo. * 26X depre.
FY66 - 1001 Opl. Expe. * 461 depre.
FY69 - 100X OpI. Expc. * SX depre.
FY90 - 100X Opi. Exps. * 66X depre.



* 33 -
Section     Status        Description of Covenant                Coi mnts
4.04(b)     OK            Notwithstanding (a) abovo, target
my be amnded by Tariff Study
provided for In Crodit 1110-U.
4.04(c)     OK            NWSC to review adequocy of tariffs    The at timee lon  delays In C0U
seMI-annually,                         approval   de th  submission of now
proposals Inappropriate
4.06        OK            NWSC not to exceed capital
oxpenditure Il-it of US8260,000 any
yoar for purpose other than Part
A, until Part A Is copleted,
without the Assoclation's prior
approval.
4.06        OK            Debt limitation of 1.6 Internal
cash generation in FY86.



- 34 -
UGANDA
Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
Credit 1510-UG
8.   Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(in Staff Weeks)
Stage of Proiect Cycle       Planned    Revised    Final
Through Appraisal                                -        13.8
Appraisal Through
Board Approval                                   -        51.1
Board Apprvao Through
Effectiveness                        -           -         0l(O
Supervision                        42.0        42.0       79.8
____________________________
Total                        42.0        42.0      154.7
____________________________
Notes No planned or revised staff weeks entered into
the CAM up to FY88.



35
UGANDA
Water Supp1Y and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
Credit 110-UG
B. MISSicws
Stags of     oiW   NLI  Of Days In Slciallzatin Prfonuace                        Tym  of
Project Cycle  y3w    Persow    Fleo   Rmpremnte   Rating Status                  Protlei
Pre-          5/83        3        16    Sanitary
Aora,sal                                   agliusring,
F lnaM:lal
aalysis
ACOraiUl      10/83       9       20    Sanitary
ignering,
FirnuilU
mai ys' .
Training. Lw
Swor Aroval 4/84          3        12    sanitary                    AvallaI ity of local outgr-
Tlrv4                                       'inwrlng.                ;art fuais frcs MU
Effectivens                              Firucial
analysis
Swrvlslon   3485          2        9    sanitary            2        Non-cD i lace with caverants; very
S9liUVfI'                pooor Wfor-oW  an billng ua
Fiemlal                     collection; water tariffs too low
amlyeis
7/65       2        14    Santry              2        WW  li zation d tednicai  ssist-
vlinrliu.                 AMo Slia  0A tO semity situtalM:
Loam                        Di 1  ing w  col lCO tion ns urgaet
snitation                  lwrovent
II/U       2        10    Sanitary            2        saw as 3M  mission. lasisoation
41iuarIng.                of t iclical auistanes. training,
Llant                       &V  iw-cast snitation delayed
snitation
5/67       1        11   Sunitary             3        S   as 3/3  mission; lasiemtatlon
.ginving                  of twiicai auistanie. training.
eM  lw-cut WitatIon delayed;
bo  iwity situation
8/7        2          13  Sanitary            2        Ss as 3/88 minion
aw1niri.
analysis
5/89       I        is    Sanitary            2        SW  as 3/U  lission
uqigwirng
3/U        2        32    Sanitury            2        Oslays in tariff Irears_  uM hii
qigwrlin.                 infIlation rats -3, low rsrus for
Flniwlal                    MU  -> very iw salaries -  Io
nalySis                   staff rwals -> 1w sJICIan
of WE
10/3       6        25    Sanitary                     tSwrvlsm of Cr.15110US as
g _iurng.                 dsne asls Part oF 4Wr&IUs
of follw         project)
Eginms.
rl", C*



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Table 1
UGANDA
Water Supply and Sanitary Rehabilitation Project
National Water and Sewerage Corporation
Ir us Statumnts for Yeers EnIrq Anr 30
(Usti $III t on)
1985             1965             1967/a           196/b             194              is
'wratuai ActisolaI          Acting UraIsl  ctil  AuraIuI  Actial Awraiu    Est.  gra,ui Act Ai
;AQtIng uvgw#               649.4   964.6  I'M2.?   on.I    16.1    14.1    25.1   381.2    38.4   870.0            4.r    %,A
3sratt ng ECws               535.4    12.0   72M.7  1,03.1       9.3    25.1    11.4   133.7    10.4   6.0    17.9
aratun  trv   s bhfore       114.0    92.6   29P.0  (203.0)    6.6   (11.0)   13.7   247.5    22.0   224.0    21 5
Owracatian                 1,619.3    49.6  1,774.1  1.005.2    27.4    66.1    30.6   106.6    3.6   251.0    43 8
wrating ggei              (1.503)    43.0 (1.475.1)(1,211.2)   (20.6)  (77.1)  (10.9)   61.7   (17.)  (27.0)  (15.0)  4/A
itntlret                     90.0              73.5              0.7              0.6               3.6              4.4
Mt tMuls                  (1.5.3)   43.0 (1,54.)(1.2.2)   (21.3)  (77.1)  (17.5)   61.7   (2.3)  (27.0)   (19.3)  'l
.ratirq I2.4    30.6   71.0   124.6    57.6   173.0   46.5                                 5.1    42.7    74.2    36.3
airtir Ifocille bhr           0.7      0.2      1.1    tO.1)    3.7    (0. 1)    7.4       1.0      8.9      1.4    It.8
Ow rsItiuilt Flue         t8
/a  krIg fiq  tY tim   a  6lTW       M sftaN      h  it  tome 10   Ul  lSUb.
/b 1w1  =nrul atists we fw I tw,sMI pm  mlu, r1us w1  Ino for 6 tie
(mSiulIq trulnr   s him _ trISfWgred guy In aIm  I), DA iniati  fhr only 3 twon.
$Ina tm  mm  of tim 4 to4 trumf  orrul t.uln  o m    r an       t a a t   w<Zd.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
UGANDA
Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
Credit 1510-UG
National Water and Sewerage Corporation
BkIa lhuts for Yars as At Jr 30
(Ustl 011 I on)
198               1988               196 ta            1988l /b          1969               1990
Awrasal  Actuwl Aorawaiu   Actual Awraisal  Actua  ADcaragui  Actual Amraiui   Est.   ADralaI  Actual
ASSETS
rflMt asts
Casi                         7.1       4.8     29.1     11.1      0.5      0.2       0.6     32.7      0.8    (21.0)      0.5
Acouts Rceivable           108.5    834.0    170.8    804.2       2.7      6.0       4.2    231.7      6.4    635.0       7.8
Inventor in                100.0    232.0    200.0    893.0       6.5      7.0      9.0      31.7     12.3     33.0      13.6
Totas ICrrmnt AMst       215.8    870.8    400.5  1.700.3       9.7      13.2     14.4    290.1      19.5    647.0     21.9  NWA
Fixed Asts
Plant in Oeraticn        ts,222.9 70.542.3 77,177.4 199,221.5    882.9  7,959.5    956.9  15,976.3  1,231.5  18e775.0  1.382.6
omrec ation              53.557.0 30,115.7 59,883.4  1.094.4    8M. 1      77.0    771.9    282.8    935.6    527.0  '.118.1
Not Fixe Assts         15.15.9 40,428.3  17,294.0 198,127.1    182.8  7.882.5    185.0  15.713.5    248.0  16,248.0    244.6  NWA
In Progr               980.1             915.8               5.4                9.8               10.1               8.8
Tot I Ats             18.8816 41,.297.4 18.610.3 199.,85.4    197.9  7895..7    209.2  l6.0O.t    275.5  16,895.0    275.3   W/A
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
ourrent LIailitli
omits                                 40.8             119.3                3.0               7.2                7.0
AComitls Payale             8 0.3    225.5    108.5    313.4      1.4       7.8      1.7     21.2      2.5    148.0       2.7
eU* Orwdraft                           7.3              42.5                1.3               0.0
Total Cirront LiaDlites    80.3    273.4    108.5    475.2       1.4     12.1      1.7     28.4      2.5    155.0       2.7  NWA
Lmug-ters Obt              1,422.8      8.2  2.508.1      4.7     37.2      0.0      45.8      0.0     45.4      0.0      42.2
Total Libilittle        1.50.1    2t1.6  2.818.6    479.9    31.6        12.1     47.8     28.4      47.9    155.0     44.9   ltA
Equity
CaoItai                  16,254.7           16801l.8            173.2             176.1              227.6             227.6
Retained Earninp         (3.251.5) 40,999.9 (41.I00.1)19B.924.7    (88.3) 7.b1.9    (8B.9) 15,9t9.5   (108.0) 15,983.0   (127.4)
Grants                    1,208.0     48.1  1.509.0    430.8      15.1     1.7      15.1      1.7      15.1      2.0     15.1
Rsvaiuatl Io fts"         1.146.3           2,478.0               40.3              56.8              93.0    785.0    115.1
Total Eoulty           15,358.5 41,016.0  15,993.7 139,355.5    159.3  7.83.6    161.7  15,981.2    227.7  16.740.0    230.4   N/A
Total LiabilIties UN    16,861.6 41,297.6  18,610.3 19,835.4    197.9  7,S95.7    209.2  16,008.6    275.5  16,895.0    275.3   A/A
EOulty                  _        _
Oabibt + Esqlty               8.5       0.0     13.6      0.0      18.9     0.0      22.1      0.0      16.6      0.0     15.5   N/A
etrect ratlo                  2.7       3.2      3.7      3.6      6.9       1.1      8.4     10.4      8.0       4.2      8.1
ta Oilng FYr8 thm Luiun arsy as refors  ad  trlt IWO  bus IUSh.
lb Uwas aw iuI setlatas are for 7 two. eain  f lgwes Incluid  tie fixed aets fwr only 3 tomns. since tis f lId asts of tle 4 to
trufierred uring te yar wre nt as Yet valued.



- 38
ANNEX 2
UGANDA
Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
Credit 1510-UG
Financial Impact
Appraisal                        Actual
Estimate
Cost Recovery for NWSC:
Cover cash operating costs plus:
FY86s:  152 of depreciation on           Operating costs were not
revalued basis                    fully covered
FY87:  252 of depreciation on            Operating costs were not
revalued baLs                     fully covered
FY88:  452 of depreciation on            Operating costs plus
revalued basLe                    depreciation of 3 out of 7
towns "ssets were covered
but "rsets were not revalued
FY89:  552 of depreciation on            Operating costs plus 892 of
revalued basis                    depreciation of 3 out of 7
towns assets were covered
but assets were not revalued
FY90:  652 of depreciation on            Actual performance not yet
revalued basis                    available
Government Accounts Receivablet
Not more than 60 days                   About 200 days
during project implementation             at 10131189
Financial performance, including income statements and balance sheets, 's
summarized in Annex 1.



* 39 -
ANNEX 3
UGANDA
Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation ProJect
Credit 1510-UG
Piped Water Supply and Sewerage Coverage, 1989
P1iw  water supply                              I of total
population
Popuaition sorved          X of population served with                with
Town        Tot Ia
Popul-                                 Public    Household   Institut-       Sewerage  Septic
ation         No.           I          stand      connect-    onal con      ,connct-  tanks
t_ps        long */   nections b/       ;'I_
Kampala        705,060      3Je M1            44           34            59             7          is      I'
Jinja          138,000       67.61s            as          13           87              -         29         4
Entebbe         43,109       21,309           49           46            6S5                        6       38
Maasak          40,5U0       39,129           64           24            76                         .       1.
Mborisi         49,161       224173           56            22           79             _       Not        Not
._ _ __ _ ._                                          _ _  _ _ .a v ail.       a ya  'il
Mbole           39,401       23,710           61                         32             _          44        a
Tooro           31,56        1,769                         2 28          77             -          11       16
TOTAL        19§44,61        29,              59            27           7              -          16       16 
Includtng private aend pipes outside the hou" (yard tape)
b/      Housohold equivalente



