Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
R11t No. P-3857-UG
REPOR TND AM EC tIOS
OF IE
PRESIDELiT OF THE
INTERATIONAL DEVELOPAE   ASSOCITIO
TO T-HE
EXECUTIVE DL'sCTORS
Ot A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMELT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OrG SDR 26.9 MILLION!
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGADA
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
July 5, 1984
IThis dicins. bm a Ps-d cte dkMatm n. =my be _u by  _i    y in the p_dmic o
the fi Endl iudum Is egutmaS may wg elherwbse be diseimi wIho Weed Duk ahudzMh.t.o



CURRENBC  EQUIVALENTS
(Ars of June 1984)
Currency Unit - Uganda Shilling (USh)
USS 1.00 = USh 320
USh 1.00 = USS 0.003
From October 1975 to May 1981, the Uganda shilling was tied to the Special
Drawing Right (SDR) of the IMF (SDR 1.00 - USh 9.66). However, the Ugandan
shilling was devalued by 90% in June 1981 and has subsequently been
*loating in relation to a basket of currencies.  Since August 1982, -he
Bank of Uganda has operated a dual exchange rate system, including a second
window at which foreign exchange is traded more freely. An exchange rate
of USS1 - USh300 has been used for the calculations for the proposed
project.  The first and second window rates merged in June 1984.
ABBREVIATIONS ANXD ACRONYMS
CIB          Central Tender Board
EEC          European Economic Community
G:Z          Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
KfW          Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
LCD          Liter/capita/day
MLG          Ministry of Local Government
XLKWR        Ministry of Lands, Minerals and Water Resources
MOH          Ministry of Health
NORAD        Norwegian Aid Agency
NWSC         National Water and Sewerage Corporation
ODA          British Overseas Development Administration
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
SIDA         Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
WDD          Water Development Department
WHO          World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
Government July 1 - June 30
IWSC        July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICLAL US ONLY
UGANDA
WAlE SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY
BRROWER:              Republic of Uganda
BENEICIARIES:         National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) and
Water Development Departmet (WDD) of the Mnistry of
Lands, Mineral, and Water Resources (MLIWR), the
Mnistry of Health (MOH) and the city councils of
seven major towns through the Ministry of Local
Government (MLG).
AMOUNT:               SDR 26.9 (USS28.0) million equivalent.
TERMS:                StanAard.
RELENDING TERMS:      Of the proceeds of the credit, the Government would:
Ca) (i) onlend US$10.8 million equivalent to MDSC
for 20 years, including four years of grace
at a variable interest rate; and
(ii) channel US$4.6 million equivalent as
equity to NISC; and
(b) allocate:
Ci) US$8.4 million equivalent to WDD;
(ii) US$0.4 million equivalent to the Ministry
of Health; and
(iii) US$3.8 million equivalent to the Ministry
of Local Government.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: The proposed project is designed to assist the
Government in financing the rehabilitation of the
vater supply and sanitation facilities of seven major
towns; and provide training and technical
assistance.
RISKS:                The main risks facing project implementation are weak
project implementation organizations and the limited
capacity of local contractors. They have been
addressed: by providing technical assistance and
designing procurement packages which would attract
strong contractors for the mechanical/electrical, and
civil works; and by retaining consultants for the
supervision of construction work. The remaining risk
is the still unsettled political and security
situation in the country. Under prevailing
conditions, the project as designed is feasible. A
deterioration, however, could have adverse effects on
project implementation, both in terms of cost and
completion, and in a severe case may require
revisions of the project scope.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance
of thber official duties. Its contents may not othew  be disclosed without World Bank autboutiouL



- ii -
ESTIMAIED COSTS:                                      Local   Foreigcr Total
-   USS million
1. Rehabilitation of and
replacements for:
water supply facilities   2.18       7.22      9.40
sewerage facilities        0.83      1.90      2.73
2. Supply of refuse dis-
posal equipment and
septic tank emptiers        0.37      2.63      3.00
3. Low cost sanitation and
health education             0.51     0.34      0.85
4. Training                     0.01     0.75      0.76
c. Technical assistance        0.32      1.43      1.75
6. Consultancy services         0.70     2.00      2.70
7. Total Base Cost=             4.92    16.27    21.'9
(January 1984)
Physical Contingencies      0.77      2.42      3.19
Price Contingencies         2.40      4.05      6.41
Total Project Cost        8.09    22.74    30.83
(net of taxes and                    -      -
duties)
FINANCING PIAuN:
IDA Credit                      5.3     22.7      28.0
Government of Uganda            2.8      -         2.8
Total Financing               8.1     22.7      30.8
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                               FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
in USS million  -
Annual                 5.0    8.0    7.0    5.0    3.0
Cumulative             5.0   13.0   20.0   25.0   28.0
RATE OF RETURI:        202 on 98.52 of total project costs using current
tariffs as a proxy for benefits.
APPRAISAL REPORT:      Report No. 4968-UG, dated June 25, 1984.



REPORT AND RECXIENDAIION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Uganda for SDR 26.9 (US$28.0) million
equivalent on standard IDA terms to help finance a water supply and
sanitation project. The Government would channel USS 4.6 million of the
proceeds of the credit as equity to the National Water and Sewerage
Corporation (NWSC) and onlend USS10.8 oillion to NWSC for a masimu  of 20
years, including four years of grace. and at a variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in May-June 1983 and its
report, entitled -Uganda - Country Economic Memorandum  (Report No.
4733-UG) dated December 9, 1983, has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. A summary of social and economic data is given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages:
(a)  a favorable clima-e, fertile soils and rich mineral base for
economic development;
(b) an established indigenous smallholder sector providing a widening
range of export crops and an ample domestic food supply;
(c) a small but rapidly growing industrial sector, contributing
exports of copper and textiles;
(d) a well-developed transport system, including facilities shared
with Kenya and Tanzania under the East African Community (EAC);
(e) an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity, with substantial scope
for further development on the Victoria Nile; and
(f) one of the most advanced education systems in East Africa.
II Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Third Highway Project, Report
No. P-3729-UG, dated February 22, 1984.



- 2 -
The initial years after independence clearly demonstrated the economic
potential of the country. Real GDP grew by 4.8% per annum from 1963 to
1970, implying an increase in per capita terms of at least 2Z per annum.
The country was also able to maintain a reasonable savings rate (averaging
13Z) which permitted implementation of an ambitious investment program
without undue pressure on domestic prices or the balance of payments.
Although Uganda's export volumes grew slowly, export earnings were more
than adequate to cover import requirements and the country maintained a
current account surplus in most years.  The Government's budgetary position
was also sound: revenue increased faster than recurrent expenditure during
the latter half of the 1960s and, together with non-bank domestic borrow-
ing, helped finance a significant proportion of development outlays.
4.        However, after the coup in 1971, the situation quickly deterio-
rated. Under the military regime, many skilled personnel left the country,
the parastatal sector became bloated with the addition of many abandoned or
confiscated industries, and professional standards within the administra-
tion were eroded. On top of these largely self-imposed problems, the
Ugandan economy was shaken by a series of external shocks: the sharp rise
in petroleum prices after 1973, the breakup of the EAC in 1977, and the
damage and looting which occurred during the 1978-79 war. As a result of
these developments, real GDP stagnated through 1977 and then fell over the
next three years. Import levels had to be cut by 50% from 1970 to 1979,
due to lower export volumes, worsening terms of trade (except during the
coffee boom years of 1977-79) and dwindling aid receipts. The Government's
budgetary position also became increasingly untenable, as the revenue base
was undermined and expenditure control collapsed.  The resultant deficit
was financed increasingly by bank borrowing, leading to monetary expansion
and price inflation (averaging 74% per annum from 1977 to 1979). Not
surprisingly, critical shortages developed and a large sbare of economic
activity was diverted to the pervasive parallel market system called
-magendo-.
Recent Developments
5.        By April 1979, when the military regime was overthrown, the
Ugandan economy was in ruins. Initial efforts to promote recovery were
constrained by an unstable political situation, administrative weaknesses
and a severe shortage of foreign exchange. As a result, many of the
adverse trends evident during the 1970s continued through 1980. In partic-
ular, real GDP continued to decline while the inflation rate rose above
100% per annum. Then, in mid 1981, the Government made a dramatic break
with the past by announcing a major devaluation of the Ugandan shilling and
related price adjustments. Through a series of financial programs, sup-
ported by assistance from the IMF and other donors, further policy reforms
have been introduced over the past two years (see paragraphs 7 to 9). As a
result, there has been a marked improvement in economic performance,
despite the iegative impact of internal security problems and adverse
conditions in the world economy. The difficult security situation results
from the disintegration of law and order during the 1970s and the need to
rebuild the security forces after the 1978-79 war. Although most of the
country is now at peace, periodic incidents have occurred, especially in
the areas surrounding Kampala, disrupting production and transport activi-



ties and diverting budgetary resources for security-related activities. As
regards the world ecoaomy, although Uganda's terms of trade have improved
since 1981, the index remains at less than half the peaks achieved during
the coffee boom years of 1978-79, and only 65Z of the level in 1970.
Equally important, Uganda's export earnings are noW constrained by the
quotas on coffee sales imposed under the International Coffee Agreement
(ICA). During 1982/83, for example, Uganda's estimated coffee production
was 40Z higher than the quota limit; the balance was either stocked or sold
on non-quota markets at discounts of up to 50%. The combination of
economic recession and tighter fiscal policies in developed countries has
also affected the availability of external assistance. For Uganda, aid
mobilization has been made particularly difficult by the legacy of inter-
national isolation imposed during the 1970s and continuing concern overseas
about the security situation in the country.
6.        The economic recovery is evident in a number of indicators.
(a) GDP grew on average by 5% per annum during 1981 and 1982, and
this growth rate was probably sustained into 1983. The recovery
was initially concentrated in subsistence agriculture but has
been more generalized over the past two years.
(b) Export volumes rose by an estimated 45% from 1980 to 1983, and
would have recovered even more without the coffee quota con-
straint. Ihis export grow-th, together with improved aid utiliza-
tion during 1983, has helped to finance a much-needed expansion
of import volumes since 1981.
(c) Government revenue has increased more than fourteenfold over the
past two years, from 0.8% to 6.3% of GDP. Expenditure growth on
the other hand has been less rapid, because the Government has
restricted cash release to ministries in order to remain wlthin
the IMF ceilings. Consequently, the budget deficit was held to
about 2% of GDP during 1982/83.
(d) The resultant restraint on bank borrowing by the Government has
reduced the rate of monetary expansion. This, together with
falling import prices, has helped to control general inflation,
which is down from an estimated 100% per annum in 1980-81 to 45%
in 1982 and about 30% in 1983.
Despite this progress, overall levels of economic activity and trade remain
substantially below the peak levels achieved in the early 1970s. As a
result, per capita GNP is still only two thirds of the 1970 level. The
burden of this income loss falls most heavily on wage and salary earners,
especially in the civil service, who often have to resort to secondary
employment or unofficial activities in order to survive.
The Government's Policies and Programs
7.        The Government's primary goal is to restore law and order, a
basic prerequisite for future economic progress. Second only to this,
however, is the goal of rehabilitating the productive sectors. The first



step towards rehabilitation was the introduction of the financial program
for 1981/82, which has been followed by similar programs during 1982/83 and
1983/84. These programs have been supported by three stand-by arrangements
with the IMF (for a total of SDR 320 million), drawings from the First and
Second IDA Reconstructiou Credits (providing US$145 million after June
1981) and assistance from other donors. Major actions t.ken by the
Government are summarized below.
(a)  The official exchange rate was devalued from under USh8 to USh78
per US dollar in June 1981, and has subsequently been steadily
depreciated further to USh 240 per US dollar in January 1984.
Since August 1982, the Government has also opened a second window
where foreign exchange is more freely traded in an auction
system. The rate established at the second window has fluctuated
between USh230 and USh330 per US dollar over the past year.
These exchange rate adjustments have led to a substantial reduc-
tion in the premium and importance of the unofficial market for
foreign exchange.
tb)  The initial devaluation in June 1981 was accompanied by the
removal of most price controls. The major exceptions were for
producer prices of traditional export crops, retail prices of
petroleum products and utility tariffs. For these controlled
items, significant price increases have been introduced over the
past year. Petroleum prices have been increased by more than
twentyfold since December 1980 to reflect fully the impact of
window-one exchange rate changes. Producer price adjustments
have been more moderate, with increases of about tenfold for most
major export crops. However, these increases are still substan-
tially higher than general iaflation and net returns from the
production of all major export crops are now positive. The most
serious lags in price adjustments have been for utility tariffs.
Although all major tariffs have been increased by at least IOOZ
since 1980, further large adjustments will be required in most
cases to reflect present costs of supply, to provide resources
for future development and to encourage efficient utilization of
services.
(c)  Various measures have been introduced to improve monetary and
fiscal discipline. To help control the demand for money and
allocate credit, most interest rates have been nearly doubled
over the past two years (although they still remain negative in
real terms). As part of its obligations under the IMF stand-by
arrangements, the Government has agreed to and met ceilings on
the growth of net domestic credit and net credit to the Govern-
ment. On the fiscal side, a number of measures were taken in mid
1981 to streamline and improve the elasticity of the taxation
structure. Strict control has also been maintained over cash
releases to ministries, although this has sometimes been at the
cost of underfunding critical functions and the accumulation of
domestic arrears.



- 5 -
8.        The Government's original Recovery Program, which included
proposals for policy and institutional reform as well as a project-specific
investment plan for 1982/83 and 1983/84, was presented to the May 1982
meeting of the Consultative Group. All participants at the meeting com-
mended the Government's commitment, as reflected in the Recovery Program,
to prioritize its rehabilitation activities and to restrict overall
resource allocations to realistic levels. Following a recent progress
review, the Government published a Revised Recovery Program in October
*         1983. This updated document takes account of the resource constraints and
implementation problems encountered over the past year and incorporates
1984/85 fully into the investment plan. However, the broad objectives and
strategy remain the same, focusing on the short-term revival of the produc-
tivp sectors. Priority in all sectors is given to rehabilitation and
improved utilization of existing capacity. Although provision has now been
made for preparatory work on a number of new projects, most of these do not
involve large expenditures through 1984/85 and are essential to maintain
momentum in later years. The Revised Recovery Program also includes a
number of innovations and changes designed to make it more effective for
decision making and to facilitate project implementation. The only major
gap is a complete review of requirements of recurrent imports and balance
of payment support. Even so, the macro-economic framework of the Revised
Recovery Program is broadly consistent with the World Bank staff projec-
tions presented in the recent Country Economic Memorandum.  Therefore,
provided =he key assumptions on the coffee export quota and new commitments
of external assistance can be realized, the availability of resources
should not act as a constraint on the implementation of the revised invest-
ment plan.  The Revised Recovery Program was discussed at a further meeting
of the Consultative Group on January 25 and 26, 1984, at which participants
again welcomed the strategy and priorities of the Revised Recovery Program,
and the implied level and composition of Uganda's aid requirements for 1984
and 1985 (see paragraph 16 below).
9.        A decisive start to the process of economic recovery has now been
made. The basic priority for further action is to strengthen the adminis-
trative framework for implementing the Government's programs, for carrying
them forward and making them more effective. In some cases, strengthening
means rebuilding what already existed in the early 1970s; in others, it
means developing new institutions and policies relevant to today's real-
ities.  The administrative I3aknesses faced by Uganda (and many other Sub-
Saharan African countries) are inherently difficult to tackle and progress
will be slow. However, the magnitude of the task ahead should not be
allowed to undermine the commitment to much-needed economic reforms. The
Government has already initiated action in this area:  the Report of the
Public Service Salaries Review Commission, which covers many issues
relating to the organization and operation of the civil service besides
salaries, was presented in November 1982 and is presently under review by
the Government; the Government passed the Expropriated Properties Act in
February 1983 to provide a legal basis for resolving ownership issues, and
is about to start a series of financial and accounting studies on major
parastatal organizations; various measures have been introduced over the
past two years to improve foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing
procedures; and, the Agricultural Policy Committee was established in
August 1982 to advise the Government on prices, marketing and resource



allocations for the agricultural sector. Not surprisingly, given the
severe erosion of the country's productive base and infraatructure during
the 1970s, much remains to be done before Uganda's recovery can be con-
sidered complete. But, the Government's Revised Recovery Program and
evolving policies are headed in the right direction, and merit support from
tne international community.
Sectoral Priorities
10.       Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels,
especially of exports. This entails the highest priority initially being
given to export crop production, to the supporting transport and communica-
tions infrastructure, and to the production of basic consumer goods, build-
ing materials and agricultural inputs by the industrial sector. Other
sectors, especially the social sectors, also require urgent rehabilita-
tion. But in the near future, the rehabilitation of these sectors must be
limited to the extent of their potential contribution to the recovery
process. Improvements in medical services, the repair of damaged class-
rooms and the rehabilitation of hazardous urban water systems, for example,
may be expected to provide an important, if unquantifiable, incentive to
producers.
II.       Agriculture dominates the Ugandan economy, providing livelihood
to 902 of the population and supplying almost all Uganda's exports in
recent years. Ugandan agriculture is largely dependent on small- and
mediumr-scale peasant farms; no attempt was ever made to encourage expatri-
ate settlements, and even today, large-scale estates are only significant
in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural conditions, Uganda
produces an overall food surplus in most years, though areas like Karamoja
in the north-east, which are vulnerable to drought and which depend on a
traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered periodic food short-
ages as a result of low rainfall and insecurity. The rehabilltation of
agriculture is the top priority for Uganda's economic recovery. Coffee,
cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could all continue to grow rapidly over
the next three years (although the previous peak levels are not likely to
be reached until later in the 1980s and coffee exports will probably remain
subject to ICA quota constraints). In addition, scope exists for expanding
non-traditional exports (e.g., hides and skins, foodstuffs and fertilizers)
to neighboring countries. The revival of cotton and other agricultural
production would also supply some domestic industrial needs. During the
rehabilitation phase, the Government has decided to give top priority to
improving incentives, including changes in producer prices and the market-
ing system. Closely related to this is the supply of inputs, implements,
spares for processing and transport, and consumer goods to stimulate the
production of surpluses. Over the longer term, agricultural services,
including research and extension, will also need more attention.
12.       Although Uganda's industrial sector has always been relatively
small, it did in the past make a valuable contribution towards supplying
the domestic market with basic goods and, in some instances (e.g., textiles
and copper), produced a surplus for export. However, the sector largely
collapsed during the 1970s. Although industrial production did begin to
recover during 1982, performance of the sector remains very uneven, with



many enterprises still closed down and average capacity utilization of only
about 30X. At present, the most obvious and generally binding constraint
is the severe shortage of foreign exchange. However, the longer-term
decline in the sector reflects more fundamental constraints which are
reemerging as the foreign exchange situation improves. These include:
shortages of qualified managerial and technical expertise, problems of
creditworthiness (resulting from ownership uncertainty, financial indisci-
pline and, more recently, the impact of devaluation on costs), and over-
expansion and political interference in the management of the parastatal
sector. The Government has now declared its intention to follow a 'mixed
economy- strategy, with only essential public services reserved exclusively
for the public sector.  In other areas, domestic and foreign private enter-
prise is to be encouraged, either wholly owned or in joint ventures with
the Government. The Government expects to close down or sell off a number
of the existing industrial enterprises, while the financial viability of
the remaining parastatals is to be restored through increased tariffs,
asset revaluation and injections of new capital. Actions initiated by the
Government in this area, including the Expropriated Properties Act and a
program of financial and accounting studies, were noted in paragraph 9.
However, the modalities for restructuring the parastatal sector are still
to be worked out fully.
13.       Uganda's transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, deteri-
orated rapidly during the 1970s for the same general reasons outlined ear-
lier: the departure of skilled personnel, political interference, and in-
adequate provision of resources for essential functions like maintenance.
In addition, the breakup of the East African Community (EAC) in 1977 had a
serious effect, especially on Uganda's access to international trade
routes. As a result Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock and
aircraft and her part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya
and Tanzania. This both necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda, and
seriously disrupted international traffic movements while increasing their
cost. Transport wes moreover the sector possibly most seriously affected
by the war and the widespread looting which followed. The vehicle fleet in
particular was decimated. Rehabilitation of the transport system and
sector institutions, thus becomes a key requirement for economic recovery.
14.       The Bank Group recently completed an assessment of Uganda's
energy sector. Energy use is primarily based on electricity, petroleum and
woodfuels. At the present time, Uganda's electric generating capacity is
underutilized. However, the surplus could be quickly absorbed as the
economy recovers and the opportunities are taken to substitute for more
*          expensive fuels (such as petroleum products) and to secure long-term export
agreements with neighboring countries. As a result, the Government has
initiated two studies on the power subsector, one on the rehabilitation of
the Owen Falls Station and the other to help prepare a least-cost power
development program. As regards petroleum, the Government has succeeded in
reducing the cost of imports over the past two years, through the impact of
higher retail prices on domestic consumption and smuggling as well as
improvements in supply arrangements. Preliminary work to ascertain the
extent and economic viability of petroleum resources in the Lake Albert
area has also been started, although local oil production remains very much
a longer-term and uncertain prospect. Woodfuels are estimated to account



for 95Z of total energy and 71% of commercial energy consumption in Uganda.
There is therefore mounting concern that uncontrolled cutting will even-
tually deplete the most accessible forest resources and lead to further
Boil erosion problems.
15.       The Government endorses the goals of the International Drinking,
Water Supply and Sanitation Decade and is giving high priority to the water
and sewerage sector. The main objective for this sector is to restore the
basic services through rehabilitation of existing water supply and sewerage
facilities. In addition, with the assistance of UNDP and the Bank Group an
updated water sector study/action plan will be produced in 1984 using
various studies previously prepared by WHO, SIDA and UNICEF. This study
will help to improve the Government's planning capacity in the water
sector.
Aid and Debt
16.       Under the base-case as.enario presented in the recent Country
Economic Memorandum, Uganda's GDP is projected to grow by 4.7% per annum
through 1985 and 3.6% per annum over the subsequent five years. These
projections assume a steady improvement in the internal security situation
and continued progress on economic reforms. The viability of this scenario
is also critically dependent on the availability of foreign exchange to
finance recurrent imports and priority rehabilitation projects. The recent
recovery in export performance is expected to continue. However, an impor-
tant factor in this assumption is that Uganda's coffee quota will be
increased from 2.3 million bags in 1983 and 1984 to 2.5 million bags in
1985. Although Uganda's case for a higher quota is strong, such an in-
crease is not assured and this represents a major uncertainty in the coun-
try's future. The current account deficit, in real terms, is projected to
rise in 1984 and then steadily decline over the remainder of the decade.
This has major implications for external financing requirements.
(a) Commitment levels are required to increase by 72 during 1984 to
USS430 million and then to continue rising by about 4% per annum
(below the projected rate of international inflation). As debt
relief and private loans are expected to fall, other forms of
external assistance will have to increase by as much as 47%
during 1984.
(b) The composition of commitments is as important as the levels
themselves.  Under Ugandan conditions, balance of payments
support will continue to be essential for at least the next two
to three years. However, project aid will become increasingly
important during the second half of the decade and even has a
role to play in the short term, provided it is consistent with
the rehabilitation priorities in the Revised Recovery Program.
Technical assistance, while not as large in dollar terms, is
important for improving public administration and making other
forms of aid effective.
(c) The net benefit to Uganda of higher commitments could soon be
eroded if they are not provided on concessional terms. This does



- 9 -
not preclude the possibility of utilizing some commercial bank
loans or ;-uppliers' credits in association with concessional
assistance, but only for selected projects which generate addi-
tional net foreign exchange earnings to cover fully the related
debt obligat-ions. However, arrangements which involve prior
claims on foreign exchange, such as coffee barter deals, should
be avoided.
On the Ugandan side, every effort must be made to strengthen aid coordina-
tion and administration. To this end, the Government has now reaffirmed
that formal responsibility for aid management, including signing agreements
and approving disbursements, lies with the Ministry of Finance. To facili-
tate this function, an aid coordinator has been appointed at the Permanent
Secretary level and he is to be assisted by a staff of twelve. In addi-
tion, MPED has a vital role to play in assuring that aid mobilized is in
line with the priorities of the Revised Recovery Program and in monitoring
aid utilization and project implementation. Therefore, appropriate staff,
facilities and technical assistance should also be allocated to MPED so
that these functions can be performed effectively, and working level
cortacts between MPED and the Ministry of Finance should be strengthened.
17.      Uganda's external debt outstanding and disbursed had reached an
estimated US$713 million by the end of 1982. Of this amount, 3.5Z was due
to IBRD (for Uganda's notional share of EAC loans) and 13.5% to IDA. For-
tunately for Uganda, the terms of new aid commitments since 1979 have been
highly concessional, with about half being grants and the balance of loans
having a grant element of 60Z. However, other debt obligations, such as
war-related assistance and IMF purchases, have helped to raise the overall
debt service ratio to around 50Z during 1981-83. Under the base-case
scenario in the Country Economic Memorandum, the debt service ratio is
projected to fall back to 46Z in 1984 and 31% by 1990. This, however, is
stili cause for concern. Further, the down-side risks are very real:
Uganda's cxport structure is stiU heavily dependent on coffee, earnings
which could be constrained by further quota restrictions and unfavorable
price movements; the Government may find it difficult to reduce the import
requirements of security-related activities; and adequate amounts of
assistance, on concessional terms, may not be forthcoming to support the
recovery effort. This outlook reinforces the importance of external debt
management. Progress has been made over the past year in improving debt
recording and an External Debt Management Office has been established. The
real priority now is to develop an appropriate borrowing program for Uganda
and ensure that it is adhered to by centralizing the authority to contract
debts.
PART II - BASK GROUP OPERATIONS 2/
18.       Bank Group operations in Uganda began with an IBRD loan of US$8.4
million for hydroelectric power development in 1961. Between 1967 and 1971
Uganda received seven IDA credits totalling US$48.0 million for projects in
2/  Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Third Highway Project Report
No. P-3729-UG, dated February 22, 1984.



- 10 -
education, roads and agriculture (tea, tobacco and beef ranching). In
addition, Uganda benefitted from 10 loans totalling USS244.8 million which
were extended for the development of the common services and the East
African Development Bank operated jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda
through their association in the former East African Community (EAC).
Anmex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations. IFC's
first investment in Uganda, in a textile company, was sold to the
Government in 1970. The second, to help finance two lodges in the national
parks was cancelled in 1972 before construction began.  IFC approved new
investments in the Toro and lttyana Tea Company and in the Sugar
Corporation of Uganda in FY83 and in the Uganda Tea Corporation in FY84.
19.       There was a hiatus in Bank Group operations from 1971 until
February 1980, when a Reconstruction Program Credit of USS72.5 million
(including a participation of US$17.5 million by the Xetherlands) and an
EEC Special Action Credit of USS20.0 million were approved (Nos. 983/
983-1-UG and 54-UG). Ihe Association also acted as Administrator of a
CanS3.0 million grant from the Government of Canada and of a USS5.0 million
program loan from the OPEC Fund. The Reconstruction Credit originally
experienced delays and disbursements were slow; it is now fully disbursed.
The Second Reconstruction Credit of US$70.0 million equivalent (No.
1252-UG), approved in May 1982 has now been fully committed. In addition,
the Association has provided USS193.0 million through the First and Second
Technical Assistance Credits (No. 1077 and 1434-UG), a Water Supply
Engineering Credit (No. 1110-UG), a Phosphate Engineering Credit (No.
1228-UG), an Industrial Rehabilitation Credit (No. 1248-UG), an
Agricultural Rehabilitation Credit (No. 1328-UG), a Third Education Credit
(No. 1329-UG) and a Posts and Telecommunications Rehabilitation Credit
(No. 1367-UG). A USS58.0 million credit for a Third Highway Project and a
Third Reconstruction Credit were approved in March and May 1984
respectively, and signed in April and June 1984 respectively.
20.       A comparison with other portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region
indicates that the disbursement rate in Uganda has been higher than the
average in the Region, ranging as a proportion of outstanding commitments
from 43% in FY80 to 30% in FY83 (compared with 19% and 26% in the same
years for the Region as a whole). Disbursements under the Water Supply
Engineering, and the Phosphate Engineering Credits are continuing
satisfactorily. Progress under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project is
good and disbursements are satisfactory. Disbursements from the Industrial
Rehabilitation Credit (due to the time needed to appraise sub-projects in
detail) and the two credits for the Third Education, and the Posts and
Telecommanications Projects are just beginning.
21.       The Bank Group also administers an Agricultural Reconstruction
Program (No. 80-UG) of US$20.0 million equivalent financed by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development and a UNDP-financed
Planring Assistance Project. In the immediate future, Bank Group opera-
tions will remain focussed on rehabilitation projects, such as the proposed
project and a power rehabilitation project which is under preparation. The
emphasis will shift gradually into traditional projects in the agriculture,
industry, transport and energy sectors.



- 11 -
22.       The developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in memoranda dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and May 14, 1984 (R84-125) and in a statement made on May 6. 1980
(SecM8O-364). One of the positive results of the mediation process has
been the Partner States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's
recomendation, that the East African Development Bank -  one of the former
Coummnity's institutions -  should continue, and a revised charter to this
effect has been enacted. The three Governments commented on the Mediator's
proposals for the three Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in
July 1981, and decided to commence negotiations based on the Mediator's
proposals. Negotiations, which started in December 1981 and continued
through 1982 and 1983, focussed on details of a division formula for assets
and debts. While it was generally accepted that both the location of
assets and the principle of equal rights of all former EAC partners should
be taken into account, the weight to be attributed to these principles was
a major issue. On November 15 and 16, 1983 the negotiations culminated in
a meeting of the three Heads of State in Arusha in which full agreement was
reached on all outstanding issues, including the prominent weighting
question. The agreement follows the recouimendations of the Mediator and
provides debt and asset shares of 42Z for Kenya, 32% for Tanzania, and 262
for Uganda. As a result of this formula, Kenya and Tanzania have excess
assets over their agreed shares, while Uganda has a shortfall. The
Agreement that established the above division formula was signed by the
three Heads of State in Arusha on May 14, 1984. It incorporates as
attachments bilateral agreements that settle Kenya's and Tanzania's
compensations due to Uganda for the shortfall in assets it holds, and that
also contain provisions to compensate for over- and underpayments by the
three countries, measures against the newly agreed division formula of
42:32:26, in servicing EAC debts between 1977 and 1984.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
23.       Uganda lies virtually within one major river basin, the upper
White Nile Basin, and is generally rich in surface water resources. In
all, about 20% of the total area is covered with bodies of water. Annual
rainfall varies considerably within the country. The northeast has an arid
climate averaging 500 am of rain annually, while the south receives about
1,400 am. There are normally two dry spells per year, one from December to
February, the other in June and July.  Since Uganda lies on a -basement
e          complex- of pre-cambrian rocks consisting of schists, marbles, granites,
gneisses and quartzites, ground water resources are generally poor. But
low yield boreholes, protected sprin- and shallow wells provided with hand
pumps (drilled or dug vells, sometimes with swamp-side filtration) are
believed to be suitable for wide application in water supply of small rural
communities.
Sector Organization
24.       The Ministry of Land, Mineral, and Water Resources (NLMWR) has
the sole responsibility for water resources development, operation and
maintenance of water supply and sewerage systems in Uganda. The Water



- 12 -
Development Department (WDD) of _WXWR carries out this responsiblity in
urban water supply and sewerage, and in rural water supply. In 1972, a
parastatal body, the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) was
established to take over all urban water supply and sewerage operations on
a self-sustaining basis.  It initially took over operations of Kampala and
Jinja and, also, in 1973, -he system of Entebbe.  The water supply systeMs
for the four remaining towns, i.e. Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara, and Tororo will
be taken over by NWSC once this institution has been strengthened (Section
4.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
25.       Until recently, protection of springs and wells in rural areas
was the responsibility of the Ministry of Health (MOR). In 1982, this was
transferred to WDD. Sanitation is, in general, the responsibility of XOR.
To this effect, it is responsible for controlling effluent qualities o'
urban sewerage systems and developing sanitation of rural areas as well as,
in collaboration with town councils, improving low cost sanitation in
unsewered urban areas. MOR is also responsible for initiating and
delivering health educatiou in the country.
26.       City municipal and town councils, which are under the  -inistry of
Local Government (MLG), are responsible for refuse collection and
disposal.  Within the city and town councils, the Public Health Department
is in charge of these services. The MLG has a supervisory function,
advises on standardization of equipment in order to facilitate operation,
spare part supply and training, and has to approve the purchase of
equipment.
Levels of Service
27.       Urban Water Supply.  There are altogether 56 urban centers in
Uganda with a population over 2,000, out of which 11 have a population of
over 15,000. Thirty-three towns have central water supply systems. The
existing schemes serve at present only about 40Z of the total urban
population. All these water supply systems have been badly neglected in
the past ten years and necessary replacements have not taken place. As a
result, all existing systems are operating below their design capacity.
Water losses in the distribution system are high ;25-40Z) and water is
wasted due to the absence of water metering and low tariffs. This
situation would be gradually reversed with services improved under the
Water Supply Engineering, and the proposed projects. The unserved
population obtains its supplies from unprotected sources (wells, rivers or
lakes).
28.       Rural Water Supply.  This consists of boreholes equipped with
handpumps, protected springs and small dams and valley tanks. Uganda has
an extensive network of boreholes (over 5,000 in total) and some 950 dams
and valley tanks, but over the last decade, as very little maintenance work
was done, boreholes became largely inoperative and surface reservoirs
silted up. Population coverage in rural water supply is estimated to be in
the order of 7 to 8%. Walking distances to improved water sources are in
the range of 0.5 km up to 10 km which results in people using polluted
traditional water sources whenever there is such a source nearer than the
improved source.



- 13 -
29.       Sewerage/Sanitation.  Out of the 56 urban centers, some 13 have
sewer systems although today most of them are not in full operation. It is
estimated that only some 20% of the total urban population would be served
even if these systems were rehabilitated to operate at their design
capacity. Taking into account properly constructed and maintained
alternative methods of excreta disposal, mainly septic tanks, it is
estimated that some 30% of Uganda's urban population has appropriate
seweragelsanitation service. The use of pit latrines is rather common in
Uganda as building regulations traditionally require construction of
appropriate ercreta disposal facilities at each individual house.  In
general, however, the standard of latrines and other facilities needs to be
improved. It- is estimated that only 10% of the rural population have
adequate sanitation facilities.
30.       Before 1972 all major Ugandan towns had a well organized refuse
collection and disposal system. In Kampala and Jinja, refuse was collected
from dustbins by compacting refuse trucks. In all cases, refuse was
disposed of on landfill sites. Today, only a fraction of the 1972 refuse
equipment is available. Services are not regular and cover only the
central areas of town.
Sector Constraints
31.       The major constraints to improvement and expansion of the water
supply and sanitation services are: (a) the scarcity of local currency
resources; (b) staffing problems due to a shortage of qualified and
experienced engineers and administrative staff, and to extremely lov' salary
levels which provide little incentive to existing staff; (c) inadequate
local construction capacity and output of building materials; and (d) weak
institutions in the sector. Given this situation and considering the
enormous backlog in services, high degrees of service coverage by the end
of the decade will be difficult to reach. The proposed project, which is
focusing on rehabilitation of existing facilities of water supply, sewerage
and refuse disposal in seven major towns in Uganda would therefore be of
great importance and has high priority within the sector objectives.
32.       Cost Recovery.  NWSC, which presently is responsible for three
urban centers (Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja), is required under the National
Water and Sewerage Decree of 1972 to ensure that its revenues cover all its
costs and provide a reasonable return on investment, but its hitherto low
tariffs, combined with poor collections, have made achievement of this
d           objective impossible.  In areas not served by NWSC, Government policy
generally has been to provide water free of charge to villagers and at a
modest fee to the rest of the population. As a result, tariffs for water
supplied under systems under WDD's control have remained virtually
unchanged since 1964 and tariffs for water supplied from NISC's systems
were last increased in December 1981. The Water Supply Engineering Project
(Cr. 1110-UG) therefore provided funds for consultant services to undertake
a tariff study, the results of which are expected by December 1984.
Recognizing the urgent need for adjustments, and pending the results of
this study, the Government has increased the tariffs with effect from
May 1, 1984 by 710% for institutional, commercial and industrial users, and
by 39% for domestic users. To ensure that NWSC would move toward eventual



- 14 -
full cost recovery and accumulate cash balances needed for a modest capital
investment program from FY88 onward, tariffs would be required to be
ma-ntained a: levels to generate revenues sufficient to cover cash
operating costs plus increasing percentages of depreciation on a revalued
basis (Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement). For refuse collection,
government policy is full cost recovery by local authorities, but in
practice block grants provide 60-85% of operating expenditures.
The Bank Group's Lending Strategy
33.       Other than the Water Supply Engineering Project (Cr. lllO-UG, see
paragraph 35 below), the proposed project would be the first Bank Group
activity in the water supply and sanitation sector. Consistent with the
overall strategy as outlined above, the Bank Group aims at assisting the
Government in the rehabilitation of existing urban water and sewerage
facilities and improving the operating efficiency of the principal sector
institutions, 1NWSC and WDD. After this rehabilitation phase, the
Government would need further assistance in extending the existing
facilities in order to service a much higher percentage of the rapidly
growing urban population.  Donors other than the Bank Group are involved in
the water and sewerage sector. The EEC, the African Development Bank, the
Islamic Development Bank, Germany and France help to rehabilitate existing
urban water supply schemes and to strengthen the respective sector
organizations through technical assistance.  These activities have been
taken into account in designing the proposed project in urban water
supply. Existing sewerage systems would be rehabilitated under the
proposed project and an ADB project. Major extensions of the sewerage
systems are not anticipated because of their costs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project was appraised in October 1983.  A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled -Uganda - Water Supply and Sanitation Project",
Report No. 4968-UG, dated June 25, 1984, has been distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Negotiations were held in Washington in
June 1984.  The Ugandan delegation was headed by ?rs. Janet Opio, Permanent
Secretary in the MLMWR and included representatives of the Ministries of
Finance and Justice. A Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this
report. Supplemental project data are in Annex III.
Background
35.       Shortly after the war in 1979, the Government invited the Bank
Group to help reactivate a project initially examined in 1970 to expand the
water supply and sewerage systems in Kampala and Jinja. When the status of
the earlier work was reviewed, it was concluded that the available
information should be updated and additional work be undertaken to cover
other priority towns. Recognizing the Government's manpower constraints,
an engineering project was proposed to the Executive Directors and approved
in March 1981 (Cr. 1110-UG). It assisted the Government with the
preparation of master plan updates, feasibility and detailed engineering
studies for the rehabilitation of the water supply and sanitation



- 15 -
facilities of seven major towns (see Nap IBRD No. 17806): Kamnala, jinja,
Entebbe, Masaka, Nbarara, Tororo and Nbale. The seven towns have a
combined population of about one million or about 752 of the total urban
population of Uganda.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The main objectives of the proposed project in these seven
towns are:
(a)  to alleviate the existing emergency situation in water
supply and sewerage through rehabilitation of existing
facilities and of refuse collection and disposal;
(b) to demonstrate the benefits of low cost sanitation through
the introduction of a pilot scheme for latrine construction,
combined with a health education program; and
(c)  to strengthen the two water sector agencies, NISC and WDD,
with the main emphasis on NISC (in view of the Government's
commitment to expand its role) through provision of
technical assistance and training.
37.       The main component of the proposed project is the rehabilitation
of existing water and severage treatment works in the seven towns. This
would include mechanical and electrical works and civil works to replace
corroded water mains, reservoirs and the construction of oxidation ponds.
The project would further provide for the supply of the most urgently
required equipment for refuse collection and disposal and for septic tank
emptying. It would also include spare parts for the rehabilitation of
sewer maintenance equipment. The project would provide technical
assistance to NWSC and WDD, including consulting services for the
supervision of the rehabilitation works, and a training program. This
training program is based on a comprehensive sector manpower and training
study, financed from the Water Supply Engineering Credit. It would ensure
that the manpower requirements related to the proposed project are met and
would begin to establish the necessary sector training capability.
International Water Rights Issues
38.       Water for three towns included in the proposed project (Kampala,
Entebbe and Jinja) is drawn from Lake Victoria, which is part of the Nile
e          river system. Although the proposed project is not expected to adversely
affect the interests of the riparians, the Government of Uganda has
contacted all riparians and informed them of the proposed project. The
Governments of Egypt, Sudan, Kenya, and Tanzania have voiced no objections
to the project.
39.       Water for the town of Tororo has been drawn since 1948 from the
river Malaba which over a certain distance forms the boundary between Kenya
and Uganda. The Government of Uganda has therefore contacted the
Government of Kenya to seek its agreement to an increased abstraction of
water from the river for the water supply of the town of Tororo. The



- 16 -
Government of Kenya has stated its agreement to the proposed increased
abstraction of water from the river to meet the requirements of the
proposed project.
Project Cost and Financing
40.       The total project cost is estimated at US$30.8 million, excluding
taxes and duties (averaging L2%). Approximately 74% or US$22.7 aillion
would be foreign exchange costs. Of the US$28.0 million credit, the
Government would onlend about USS10.8 million to NWSC for 20 years,
including four years of grace, at a variable interest rate linked to the
interest rate set by the Government for commercial bank loans (Section
3.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement); about US$4.6 million would be
passed on to NWSC as Government equity; about US$8.4 million would be
allocated to WDD, while the balance of US$4.2 million would be allocated to
the Ministries of Health and of Local Government. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and NWSC would be a condition of effectiveness for
the Credit (Section 6.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement).
41.       Major cost components would be: rehabilitation, replacement and
minor extension works for the water supply and sewerage systems of the
seven towns (USSl2.l million), equipment for refuse disposal and septic
tank emptiers (USS3.0 million) and the low cost sanitation and health
education component (US$0.9 million). Consultancy services would account
for US$2.7 million, and technical assistance and training for US$1.5
million. Improvements for NWSC and WDD (supply of vehicles, office
equipment and chemicals for water works, and housing) are estimated to cost
US$1.0 million. Physical and price contingencies account for US$3.2
million and US$6.5 million respectively, of project costs.
42.       Of the proposed credit, US$9.4 million would be allocated for the
civil works and US$5.4 million for the mechanical/electrical works for the
rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage systems. US$5.1 million would
be allocated for equipment, materials, vehicles and a mobile workshop. The
credit would also be used for consultant services and technical assistance
(USS3.8 million), training, fellowships and health education (US$1.5
million). The equivalent of US$0.5 million would be used to establish a
Revolving Fund (paragraph 52 below) and the balance of US$2.3 million would
remain unallocated. The proposed creuit of US$28.0 million would finance
about 90% of total project costs. The Government would contribute the
remaining US$2.8 million of local costs and taxes and duties.  As a
condition of effectiveriess, it would establish a Project Advance Account
with an initial deposit of USh 90 million (Sections 3.01(e) and 6.01(c) of
the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
43.       The following agencies would be responsible for implementation of
the proposed project:
(a) the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), for the
water and sewerage component in Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe;



- 17 -
(b)  the Water Development Department (WDD) of the Ministry of
Lands, Mineral, and Water Resources (MLMWR) for the water and
sewerage component in Masaka, Mbarara, Mbale, and Tororo;
(c) the Ministry of Health, for implementing the health education
component; and,
(d) the city councils in the seven towns, under the supervision
*                       of the Ministry of Local Government, for the refuse
collection component.
44.       A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established under the
Water Supply Engineering Project and has been strengthened by technical
assistance financed under that project (Cr. lllO-UG). The PCU would be
further strengthened by the provision of a refuse expert under the proposed
project, and would be responsible for the coordination between the various
project implementation agencies and for the total project accounting
(Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement).
45.       The consultants hired under the Water Supply Engineering Project,
for the preparation of detailed engineering and tender documents for the
seven towns, would be retained by MIMWR for the supervision of construction
work. Detailed design and tender documents under the Engineering Project
are expected to be completed in June 1984. All major contracts under the
proposed project would therefore be awarded by October 1984. Construction
under the project would be substantially completed by July 1988. The
project completion date would be December 31, 1988.
46.       The Ministry of Health and the city councils in the seven towns
are adequately staffed to implement the components of US$0.4 million and
US$ 3.8 million respectively entrusted to them.
47.       The National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) and the Water
Development Department (WDD). NWSC and WDD would have prime responsibility
for implementation of the physical components of the proposed project.
NWSC, a parastatal reporting to MLMWR, was established in 1972 to develop
and operate water supply and sewerage systems in any area specified by
MLMWR. NWSC is headed by a Board of Directors. Day-to-day control over
NWSC's activities rests with the managing director, the incumbent is well
qualified. A finanue manager and a management technical adviser are
financed by the EEC. Overall, NWSC is hampered by a lack of trained staff
t         in all of its departments.  Some professional staff will be financed by a
German grant. Unattractive terms of employment, the results of low tariffs
and inadequate levels of billing and collections, are the mai  reasons for
NWSC's inability to attract and retain competent staff in sufficient
numbers. NWSC's salaries and wages have fallen behind those of WDD, and to
improve the situation, NWSC's staff remuneration has been adjusted so as to
restore parity. WDD in many respects is in a situation similar to NWSC's.
But as the towns of Masaka, Mbarara, Mbale and Tororo are scheduled to be
transferred to NWSC's control by July 1988 (see paragraph 24), and due to
the availability of limited funds, the proposed project would generally
strengthen WDD only in terms of its accounting and finance functions by
requiring organizational, staffing and procedural changes.



- 18 -
48.       Since July 1983, NWSC has billed its consumers for water supply
and sewerage services in all three towns on a monthly basis. While billing
is normally carried out promptly during the early par: of each month,
collections remain substantially in arrears. Concentrated efforts to
improve collections, including a rigorous disconnection program, have
resulted in a considerable reduction in accounts receivable. Government
agencies are estimated to account for about 50% of water consumption
billed, but they represent the bulk of accounts receivable (71% as of March
31, 1984). The Government would -- as a condition of effectiveness
(Sections4.05(i) and (ii), 6.01(d) of the Development Credit Agreement)
withhold from the monthly budget releases to its ministries monies owed to
NWSC as of June 30, 1984 and pay such amounts to NWSC. In future, the
Government would take all necessary measures not to allow the indebtedness
of its ministries to exceed two months' billing (Section 4.05(iii) of
Development Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
49.       NWSC and WDD follow different accounting and auditing
procedures. Although NWSC's accounting procedures are basically adequate
to provide information needed for financial control, and planning and
management reports, its accounts have not been finalized since 1978. This
has been due mainly to the general shortage of accounting staff caused by
unattractive employment conditions, and to the widespread destruction of
records during the war. NWSC has prepared a new set of accounts based on a
"statement of affairs' as of June 30, 1983. As higher tariffs (see
paragraph 32) and improved collections (see paragraph 48) gradually allow
NWSC to offer more attractive compensation, the quality of the staff is
expected to improve. WDD's accounting records have been maintained at
MLMWR's headquarters. Starting January 1, 1984, they have been separated
from the accounts of other MLMWR departments. They are prepared on a cash
basis in accordance with government accounting procedures.
50.       At present, a chartered accounting firm, whose staff is
adequately qualified, serves as NWSC's auditors. WDD is subject to annual
audits which are carried out regularly by the Auditor General's
Department.
Procurement
51.        Since appropriate local contracting capacity is not available,
procurement packages have been prepared which would be attractive to
international contractors and stringent prequalification procedures would
be applied. Contracts for mechanical/electrical works (US$6.4 million) and
civil works (US$9.7 million) would be awarded separately or in one
contract. Vehicles, a mobile workshop, refuse disposal and sewer
maintenance equipment (US$6.0 million) would also be provided through ICB.
Construction, and furniture for houses and offices, supply of material for
low cost sanitation, for health education and training, of chemicals and
leak detection equipment, bic-cles and motorcycles (US$2.4 million) would
be purchased through LCB or limited ICB (in which foreign suppliers are
eligible to participate) after obtaining at lea:t three price quotations.
The balance of US$6.1 million would be for the low cost sanitation



- 19 -
component which would be executed by force account or by small contractors,
and for technical assistance, training and consultancy services.
Consultants for training and technical assistance would be selected in
accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for the Employment and Use of
Consultants and procurement would be in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines for Procurement. The table below summarizes the procurement
arrangements. All tender documents for contracts to be awarded under ICB,
which would cover 72Z of value of works would be reviewed by the
Association prior to issue, and about 6Z of value of works and supplies
would be subject to selective post-award review.
(M$ mEUioXB)
Procurmuat Method         Total G3t, IWI.
Project Elemit                        ICB      ILB         Oer       QmtIzrmci
Mcba,Ical/electrical works:
Gontract TA                      2.5(2.4)    -           -           2.5(2.4)
comnrat IB                       3.9(3.6)    -                       3.9(3.6)
Civil icrks:
Gngxrct IIA                      7.6(6.7)    -           -           7.6(6.7)
cGntract IIB                     2.1(1.8)    -           -           21(1.8)
Major supply contracts:
Rfuse equipmEnt                 3.5(3.3)     -           -5(3.3)
Septic tmk emptLers              0.6(0.6)    -           -           0.6(0.6)
Sewer mintenaxe equipment        1.2(1.1)    -          -            1.2(1.1)
Vehicles amd mbbUe workshop      0.7(0.7)    -                       0.7(0.7)
0inor works a,d supplies:
Low cost saoitatm                            0.3(0.2)    0.4(0.3)    0.7(0.5)
Houses and offices                           1.1(0.8)    -           1.1(0.8)
Funiture, office mnrial, dxmi-
cas, leak deection equ1pmt,
pipe manterial and waoecsba eqIpent          0.8(0.7)    -           0.8(0.7)
Others:
Health education                 0.1(0.1)    0.1i(0.1)    0.4(0.3)    0.6(0.5)
Taning                           0.1(0.1)    0.1(0.1)    0.9(0.9)    l.l(Ll1)
Techmical assistance                      ~~~~~~0.9(0.9)    0.9(0.9)
Gonultaicy services                                     3.5(3.3)     3.5(3.3)
Total                               22.3(2).4)    2.4(1.9)    6.1(5.7)   30.8(28.0)
Nbte: Figures in pareniteses are the respective amounts financed by tXe Association.



- 20 -
Disbursements
52.       Credit funds would be disbursed against: (a) 1002 of foreign
expenditures and 65% of local expenditures for civil works for the water
supply and sewerage component; and for consultants' services, and technical
assistance; (b) 10OZ of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 65% of local expenditures for other items and works
procured locally for mechanical/electrical works; (c) 100% of foreign
expenditures for equipment, materials, vehicles and the mobile workshop;
and (d) 100% of expenditures for health education, fellowships and
training. All expenditures would be fully documented. A USS 0.5 million
equivalent Revolving Fund would be established in the Bank of Uganda to be
used to finance expenditures for all categories (Sectior. 2.02(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). This fund would be replenished periodically
against submission of appropriate documentations. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by September 30, 1989, nine months after project
completion.
Benefits and Justification
53.       The proposed rehabilitation of the water supply and sewerage
systems in seven major towns would bring relief to approximately 62% of the
about 1 million people living in the seven towns, and to commercial antd
industrial enterprises whose development has been hampered considerably due
to the lack or shortage of water. With the provision of water, the
incidence and risk of diseases attributable to lack of safe and adequate
water would be reduced. Ir addition, the proposed project aims at
improving health education. This is particularly important because a large
portion of the population is still dependent on unprotected water sources.
54.       The overall economic rate of return for the project is 20% on
98.5% of total project costs using current tariffs as a proxy for
benefits. The rate of return is sensitive to a 10% increase in costs or a
10% reduction in benefits by about 2%. A combined increase in costs and
10% reduction in benefits would result in an economic rate of return of
i6%.
Risks
55.       The project is designed to cope with the risks which lie in weak
project implementation organizations, and the limited capacity of local
contractors by providing technical assistance and procurement packages
which would attract strong contractors for the mechanical/electrical, and
civil works; and by retaining consultants for the supervision of
construction work. In addition, intensive supervision of project
implementation, including continuous checks on budget allocations, would be
required. The remaining risk is the still unsettled political and security
situation in the country. Under prevailing conditions, the project as
designed is feasible. A deterioration in this situation however could have
adverse effects on project implementation, both in terms of cost and time,
and may in a severe case require revisions in the project scope.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Uganda
and the Association, the Project Agreement between the Association and the
National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), and the recommendations of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
57.       Additional conditions of effectiveness would be: (a) the
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association for part of the proceeds of the credit
passed on from the Government to NWSC (paragraph 40); (b) the opening of
(i) a Special Account for the Revolving Fund (paragraph 52), and (ii) a
Project Advance Account and deposit of an initial payment of USh 90 million
into this latter account (paragraph 42); and (c) MOF withholding from the
monthly budget releases to its ministries monies owed to NWSC as of June
30, 1984 (paragraph 48). Special conditions o. the Project are listed in
Annex III.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
July 5, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
ANNE I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E 3A                                       PAaL 1
UGANDA                 - SOCIAL ItoIcATORLS DATA SHEET
UCANDA                               RLFLNENNS GiDOUrPS MlELGHTI  AVERACLS) Is
HUST                     (MOST RLCENT ESTINATS) lb
RECENT             LOW INCOHE             HIDOL:TNCOcHE
19bO/      1970-b  ESTIHATE11.    AFRICA S. of SAHARA     AFRICA s. or SAHARA
AMA (u q1u1 SQ. M)
TOTAL                              236.0       23b.0       23b.U
AGIXCULTURAL                        93.8        99.8       L06.0
MI?r     CAPIA (on)                      ..         ..       220.0              254.6                    1147.9
smmT awuuum    s conTa
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      39.0       85.0        34.0               79.8                    726.2
mOMAnm AM VXTAL   AUVEsX
POPULATION.MID-YEAR cTmOUIANDS)   7286.0      9758.10    13067.0
URBAN POrULATLON ( OF TOTAL3         5.2         8.0        8.7               19.5                      28.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 CHILL)                            25.1
STATIONAAY POPULATION (MILL)                             92.1b
Y'tA STATIONAY POP. REACHED                             2140
PUPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. aM.                       30.9        41.3        53.5              29.5                      56.5
PER SQ. 11K. AGRI. LAD            77.7        97.d       118.3              94.1                     131.d
PUPULATION AGE STRUCTUIRE ()
0-14 Y"                          43.3        14.4        45.1              '5.0                      65.9
15-b4 YRS                         53.6       52.e        51.6               52.1                     51.2
65 AND ASOVE                       3.1         3.1        3.3                2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (C)
TOTAL                              2.8         2.9         2.6               2.8                       2.8
URAN                               7.1         7.1         3.4               6.2                       5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        49.9        49.9       49.9               47.9                      47.6
ClUDE DEAlT SATE (PER TOUS)         22.6        16.7        18.0              19.2                     15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         3.4         3.4               3.2                       3.2
FAMILY PLAUNNOY
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TROUS)           ..         3.8        16.1c*
USERS (t OF MARLED WOMEN)           ..         ..
POFM A- WRTte8
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      107.0        99.0       85.0               87.8                     95.7
POR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMNTS)       96.0        98.0        83.0              B8.0                      97.1
PROTFINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          51.0        s5.uJ      50.0               51.2                      50.0
OF MICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         21.0        Z4.0        27.0/d            18.1                      17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         19.5        22.3        17.4              25.7                     23.6
HEALS
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       41.2        46.3        47.6             467.4                      51.9
LFANAT MO.r. RATE (CfR rHOUS)      138.9      113.2        93.8              126.1                    117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (zPOP)
TOTAL                               *-        22.0        35.0/c            24.7                      25.4
UReAN                               ..        86.0       100.07d            56.8                      70.5
RURAL                               *-        17.0        29.07W            16.3                      12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        76.0        94.0/c            28.1
URBAN                               ..        84.0       8z.o7              65.7
RURAL                               ..        76.0       95.07W             21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         15050.0      9160.0/e  26810.0/d          27420.6                  12181.6
POP. PER PURSING PERSON          10030.0    s5io.d7W    4180.07;            3456.Z                   229Z.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            750.0       840.0       610.0/c          1183.2                    1075.4
URUN                              80.0        80.0       100.07W           380.6                    402.3
RUP4.                           1710.0      1820.0      1600.07           3177.5                    3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ..       154.1/f
AVERGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..        4.8
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                               ..         ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
rTOAL                               ..         ..
URZAN                               ..         ..
RRAL                                ..         ..
ACCSSS TO ELECT. (I OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN
RURAL                               ..          ..



ANNE I
-23-                                                          Page 2 of 5
S-IND.                 - S.CIAL 1:I1C2o 02.4zm; SkLEE
IGACOD                                K&FE8I  GaP5  i; Ej AVEACG1S) la
~~~~~~~CMS-    t!CX-  -s3rr-
 9. a* ..............-                                ZL.--l_Xs fsSa MXS.0 lb
39.0        50Lt,              .3.9                     97S.
-5.u       4k.U         56Lu               73.0                    IUA1
s 3_. 31.              ..2..0             51_o                     86.5
S'G::a  :- __                       3_u         4.0         5_0              'LZ5                       017
q -                                zem-       _      0      ;..a        6_0         7.u               16.7           _3_5
f -A;E                  1-0         2_0          3_u              68.1                      LA.
-.~0102A  (Z OF SE1OS3R1f)           1l.6         7_4         5_0               J_3                        5_z
rl:PLl--~_-_     R_-10
PiKD-A&T                           3:.0        3;_0U       34.0              46.                        49
IB_C0       20_0        21_0               25_1                     23_7
A01Lz   C  iALA= (03                !              -_        52_3               36_5                      37-1
m
PaSSE3GIA CUitS/lOCSAM POP           3.3          3_0         2.5/b              3-3                      M8s8
R3A-D0 s                 Fop2.4                  23.6        21_8               -5.3                      97.8
N RPS:S/2 :S  FOP                     0. L/       1.-         S_S                2_2                     ld6
S4;;SPAPEa (-DALLY GEL;UAL
LN-ISr) C%:!C:'LA-[X=
PER   Sil FOPULLA06                  '3          S_5         1_6               4-7                       18_2
* A.%AL. ATEM3ME/CAP12               0_3           --        0.11d               1.0                       0.6
-,J,  L33 FO)iCE tDi(S)            3255_o     4137J0       S2d7_.
p4-WLL. (Mpc  )                    35-1        34.6        33.8              34.5                      36.1
&aza Llu8  (MfrCEAT)              d9_0         i6.0        83.0               76_9                      56_8
z3;LsrAr CPEA:Z)                    -.0        5.0         6.0                9.8                      17_5
AX,EICIPA-IOS RAE (PE17)
OTE.AL                            4- _7        42.9        80.5              40_9                      37.0
MUZ                                s-8.        56.8        54.2               53.0                      47.1
FLMLE                            31.0         Z9.3        27.1               28.9                     270
ECOSfaC D0E.DPSCG  RAZIO              1.0         1.1         1.2               1*2                        1.3
im DisuIm
PERC=  OF  lItalt -
BECEtVD BY
HlCHESZ 5 OF   SER0LDS              __       20.0
HMCdEST 2G OF aOCSEOLDS              __       46             __                 __
LonsSr   20  OF __csELS            6_      2 _       _ __
LO    5 40: aF O   LSEHOLDS         __         16_6
PElmn er 5i
ES- 4A2  ABSOLUTE POVERTY    O
LEvEL (USS PEi CAP.A)
UL                                   __          __          __             165.9                     534.2
RURAL                                -           --          -               87.4                     255.9
!&ST1t4AED RELAVE POVERTY DOCOE
LEVEL (CSS PEa CAITA)
LS                                   __          __          __              100.8                    491.5
RL'AL                               --           --        87.0/d            64.6                     18S.1
S!L9AED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POMT-    LCtE  LEVEL (Z)
0358e                                 _          __          __              39.5
RURAL                               _            _                           69.0
r
?or AVAILABLE
SO APPLICABLE
S 0 T E S
fa The group averags for esch Ladicator are poqmJa&tomrweilkted aritmetic _ma. Coverae of couotrLes ag the
LodLcators dependa no availabilty of data and is muc uniform.
lb  rnZeass otberwise noted. -Data for 19600 refer to any per betwec  1959 and 1961; 0ata for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for -Moat Recent EstiLnte  betwoe  1979 and t981.
/c  1975: Id 1977; /s Registered. not all practicing In the  wntry; If CGeerort bospital .atablIslmtsa noly;
/,& 1962; lh O9A; tl 1963.
may 1983



[intla     1                                                                                                                        au.la.u   .a            -an
flU 3~iJ4-  fl.A~.l i3aj                                    au~. -  a..a.  win.             Ag-ans  aaa-iu-a.w.a..-.
tiii  *~   i~t5t  alaiji                               a-  itwafl Ia....- -  qalt  tanfll  -  i.l,at,t. ass aaa.taAli
u.-.s    a.-   -   .u   ....a    t    -tiaat                       .
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~., sP  Ii~*Stli*ts .Sf  .i
~ *nuA"i*aa -Ittar.   5. i.Aaa,         .ittw~aj-   aa
Z.,        a I..;q                taa  n   w  a
a. said  *a...a.an.,a    p.... is  .   an  * A.-.a.3 t  a
Itaaan  J3iwaw-t- Z,waid --   lA-la                                 .    l.        a    3  t-    t-s-S    :4i.as-.iaa
a-i.     ~   a.   -nj.aaaa   ai     -. T-lals aana.a-aa  w                                           laaa.im,                     Itaw             ni..
.Jtia.-l  .f.tjIs  a-  -git   ,   .n3a.   n,  i-:  na-.a,  ma a                awu  a.t-.a   -  un.w~a3f.5A     aa.  .a
It    as  salail  u    -.an  *5-5 a    . i   a--a.-  :   .inau.  t  i-as.,.    - i s                                       ..An)  a.,.
~-  a.     a.- ~   *~    -a-.~.           up.w `- a..                        an   I.aa -     wa.aga....aaa    a                         -nf i
- :.s  ga*- (.aawa  is)  ct n-i. an-a  -a.;.uam.. 3a                                 Saa          aaa- a.J    laa  -t-i Ih'S5
S? Pft.awN*                                                  1waaa.*i a   a-15                              *                 t 
r-   . AOU   ..Id  Ast5fl                                                                     .52ta
I.WI5                                                    .ltt!af    '                sP-if  s.   ia.
j*a.aaa    .i.    .   ~.a a:un..n~a5  ,i.ias 3--dbiSu-   a    .-*u.V-   ga-,aa Aa.    5an-..ws 
u.i.fi.   ..au-(a.,  .  .ma-l-iq    wa'   ans   a    a~sa                 ~             .a-,   a   ifl   a-l-saM*.  a-.I Asw.ai
in.1s.l ia-la a.'..-Z.A:A
.n a. .i*--.  . T a    l;wi.=-:a-   -.t.naiat
*aaa.-a i.a-i  .a-a a.,  ~ aastdd~~~ atau.a  - -twa a-a  1is-   .ai * da-  .ifl.i  *aiSA
t1naaas .  n.  . -awt-         i.--a--. taaa-                    ma                            m.  --  Paa.uaa i----a-------  a----aa-u
lb                         -   at.aaag.    ii  a    at.l*T.  .wft   aTa-a   --I..                     -m,.-    tna    a.  .a.,..   nawa   aa    um-ua
7~~- -    1-4                1.  Ab~-a   I..  5 WSa-lutaS                                    a..w-A.awne-a,a                 si.5as..t-                 aaaa
b.l.n.aaa-. a.uaaan             -.a5 d a   aaa %* -   'a-a   .a--                                a- zaai   a    ..t   - aia--    aaaau.p-a 
*tlifl-   i.isi   a.  a.d.-t la    -          w-a   - n U.i.A %i                                           sa. ataaaa    masei.a.aw.-.in
anTw              au..    ...at-ajag.-*.t4   aa-uaaa---   --swuwmu                                                                       aa  W         .n   .  a-ui.
uaana   sa    in.ma   A       t          paaa- n%                  n   a .....,adLaI..-at.la   a,d.    n                                                   a   ata-b   wa
J. e-A 4 -                                                             1=3ai aim*  .a-u- a  ....-t  aiaW                          a..  aww
ann-a  taiaa,a-lai- ust,.  -~  5.            at.1s                                         a.iui  ait..  a   --s ~ gaat    a     *aaa. tM.a-t
Jo     E    aa               n     .3-tg           -.-.sdf   .   ,..                           -ssi*an.nIi-.na.   ...  a                                                                       ~I.
I    xm w ~        ~      ~       wntba-   iaa   aat   iS    ta                          a                    w           ri       .a a         .t i          ..    .a.



- 25 -~~~~~~~~~~~~
AMIE I
aw4 of 5
B0ERfIC rE -M -
Qi EIER I'  Di 1982 af - 11S55
?IINHEAL L           Di 1N92 b/                         ADIL RAME O CIDI (Z. Cainm  Pd))
1ss miu~m      Z              15970-75   1975-1    1982
(aiP  Ma:    Pr1o            7.336      100.C              -         -3.2      7.8
gross Dft   ensaw-u            609       8.3             -I.9         4..7    271.
koas Plnal SwW                 353       4.8             -16.9      -40.4       4.7
rr * Ac t B                   -256      -3.5
Favc  of C , BtS              339       4.6             -1.3        -7.3     36.1
kPorct of Gwtk.  Ws            558       7.6             -9.2        --59     1O
MUE AM   Di 398Z (A- 1966 pr?) c/                       GE          FDZa
US$ Milliz n                                                (b1{  f1Jm)       (Z of tp)
1-8/8      1981/82   1971M
Agriulure                      536      56.8            Odrre  Reps                       27,.88       4.9       13.5
1mdulm44                                 4.6            Crren F.ifIte                     30,071       5.3      13.5
sevces                         363      38.6             OzrsG  S51ph                     -2,193      -0.4       -
Toral                        904    .10.0        ~     awdl aweinatge                    1,2         2.3        86
-,,   DrAND En=)                        l977    1978      L979      198D      1981      198 d/
OHa .Ufl1m    8tsh g End fl a od)
.My Say                                7.40   9.585   13.166       17.435    30.869    38.512
RkCAt to Govere                        5.522   7.28      9.485     14848    29.332    34.111
B k    -0 o 0     Sectors          2.885   3.221    3.371      5.951    11,459    21,371
1977    1978     1979       [9D0      1981    1982 d/
or       i s)
xayas Z of GP                            I 9    13.7      11.9        8o        6.9       5.5
iral Price Index (1966 - 100) ed         A6      917    1,702       3.527     6.800     9,851
Arni perage d            in
CwnI Pric                            117.9    29.9     85.6      107.2      92.8      44.9
Bw  Creit to  iblic                     15.3    32.0      30.1       56.5      97.5      16.3
eBk Crt to Private Sector               489    11.6        4.7       76.5      92.6      865
a/ Crloloa 1 d  the s   a cmerski   edqu a de Vwld  wk Aa  (adjustin fcr  e ocer1aled                 zae     bu not for
my ,xxkrreaochg of    :wo7 trauaeg ).
bJ  claoiadraI   : h offifdl wdivD       e  Idwge rtne. lhe esimaes of GIP at   I et price   e  erefare hlgber t1n t  per
cWLa (ZP est e (lhtcl Is aijwof for the overvahu a eq          rate) -m  popzatfon.
cl lT-rdae f es c e           _e  and peoducivity are  avAlaMe.
dI      e
ef GP deflator.
No appiabl.
Mac 1, 1984



ANM I
Pow 5 of 5
BAIA'!F         c                                                               !     E        E-CM (feew 1979-42)
1979     19EO      1M1  - 98-/
(15S 5fIl1mt)            &AEfee                          337      97.3
CG==                             4        L2
Ecz:s of (o, M5                          412      33        2        339        T1                                I       Q.Z
1rTe; of Gad;. 515                     -391      -2       -MS       --558       o      2                         4        1.3
emc  rup (dedf      - -)                 21      -240     -258      -219    36b-Toe                                     i
Fe   Seice  md Tzms   (met) b/              -      -8        4       -37           -Jdcs e/                    --& 3
BU 1  a Ozze                             -7      -248     -25       -256          Total                         3 &      93.7
(trla7l Cirat;                           32        93      I13        a8
ziUrc KLT tw  (wu)                     109        8Z        1       151          ML  I                31. 19M
sbz                                   (5)    (136)        (93)    (257)                                          IISS 1 l5 ia
Amortlzatlm   ~(-41)    (-3)                   (-%)   (-)
Use of Fun Credt                         -4        27       I25       82    R    bIC D, Lad.  mud                    712 af f/
O(tker item l2..i. (M)                 -195      -HE        75        79        1     _Q.rmmemd Pdvae De
OseaLl h1      of PE s                  -65      -451       50       14"        TOta (                 Dlse d         712
3esi ves (end 3ea)                        17        4        15       73         Mr MRr M         RND P  191 sz
Acremr (en ye)                        116       257      217       131
Polu IqZs                                63       124       116      101       PRiIDebt, fueL              d             46.8
P:xolaeY Eupocg.                          -         -        -         -           -      m    P d Deb-,
Totl             Id MD lica              46.8
RATE(F CEMMAE/                                                                   I,;  IM1    (Ja  3D. 13) (MS MUl)
M E l  ML
98D 1981                                oamtmng i   mu Dfu_d               16     113
USSIX.O - U.Sh.                          7.4     M.        9.0    124.5    hP bzmd                                  -     Z38
lh 1.00 - 15             c              13.5      2.0       LI       0.8        0ats_ing, incl. UxlskzmI           16     351
a/ Estoe.
b/ Euclixies offid   gruigs.
_ r winrdo ar. The widw-t10 eI1g  ra-e mm W   2  - tS$1 at :. md of epcil 1983
d/ 2of uadjujsto      I       eIpapts.
_I I        ereor s   ;an m1ssl. amd aidjstats fwr valim,          ag aid tialig.
ft/    ,  tT nia's  oda ul (I5S) of EFC I,
Debt avice pamns:  (Cwluivg I  dxlf            ar) ; a perea of  IcI of gods an  iervfrm..
Noe a1ailable.
Mkzdh 1, 1986



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STAIUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAIIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1984
C(US million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year   Borrower     Purpose                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                 8.40   120.53 1/
1077-UG   1981     Uganda     Technical Assistance                   8.00      5.25
1110-UG   1981     Uganda     Water Supply Engineering              9.00       3.93
1228-UG   1982     Uganda     Phosphate Engineering                 4.00       1.15
1248-UG   1982     Uganda     Industrial Rehabilitation            35.00      33.52
1252-UG   1982     Uganda     Second Reconstruction                70.00      41.52
Program
1328-UG   1983     Uganda     Agricultural Rehabilitation          70.00      65.89
1329-UG   1983     Uganda     Third Education                      32.00      30.58
1367-UG   1983     Uganda     Posts and Telecommunications          22.00     20.17
Rehabilitation
1434-UG   1984     Uganda     Second Technical Assistance           15.00     15.00
1445-UG   1984     Uganda     Third Highway                         58.00     58.00
Total                                            8.40   443.53    275.01
of which has been repaid                       8.40    19.84
Total now outstanding                            0.00   423.69
Amount sold:                        8.32
of which has been repaid          8.32
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   0.00   412.50 1/
Total undisbursed                                0.00   275.01    275.01
1/ Includes exchange adjustment.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMEhT
AS OF MARCH 31, 1984
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ million
Year        Obligor              Type of Business         Loan    Equity    Totai
1965   Mulco Textiles, Ltd.      Textiles and              2.80    0.71       3.51
Fibers
1972   Tourism Promotion         Tourism                   1.11      -        1.11
Services (Uganda) Ltd.
1984   Sugar Corp. of Uganda    Food and                   8.00      -       8.00
Food Processing
1984    Toro and Mityana Tea     Food and                  1.69      -        1.69
Co., Ltd. (TA(TECO)      Food Processing
Total gross commitments                           13.60     0.71      14.31
Less cancellation, termination,
repayments and sales                             4.41     0.71      5.12
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                           9.19      -         9.19
Total undisbursed (including participants          9.69      -         9.69
portion)



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
C.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOAhNS FOR COMMON SERVICES INVOLVING
KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANhDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1984
(USS million)
Amount less cancellation
Number   Year   Borrower          Purpose                  Bank I/       Undisbursed
Nine loans fully disbursed                                  204.65
1204-EA  1976     EADB          Second Development           15.00           0.03
Finance
Total                                              219.65           0.03
of si.ich has been repaid                          91.63
Total now outstanding                              128.01
Amount sold                  24.36
of -which has been repaid   24.36                   0.00
Total now held by Bank                             128.01
Total undisbursed                                    0.03           0.03
1/  Net of exchange adjustments
r



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Date of first presentation to the
Association and date of first
Association mission                    June 1983
(b)  Date of appraisal mission               November 1983
(c) Date of completion of negotiations       June 1984
Cd)  Planned date of effectiveness           September 1984
Section II.    Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III.   Special Conditions
1. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and NWSC (paragraph 40);
(b) opening of Ci) a Special Account for the Revolving
Fund (paragraph 52), and (ii) a Project Advance
Account and the payment of an initial deposit
(paragraph 42); and
(c) MOF withholding from the monthly budget releases to
its ministries monies owed to NWSC as of June 30,
1984 (paragraph 48).
2.  (a)  UJntil the results of the tariff study, about to be
undertaken, are available, tariff adjustments prior
to the transfer of the four project towns currently
under WDD's control would be made on the basis of
financial performance criteria for NWSC. National
tariffs common to NWSC and WDD would be maintained
and set at levels sufficient to cover NWSC's cash
operating costs plus increasing percentages of de-
preciation on a revalued basis (paragraph 32); and



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)  The Goverauent would aot permit future indebtedness
of ministries to NWSC to exceed two months billing
(paragraph 48).
I



UGANDA
WATER SUPPLY AND SATrATON                                                   TIs U  D   A          N. ATDN '  SUD/ 
REHABILITATION PROJECT       -,                                 :_
,,,        -    '             -'       -/          2                 t     i                           y;                         s6
-", \  r C    T - .>t A 
Aj / * ~~~~S O U T H   U G   A                                                                ;     ''=!.SO_- f!GA ND A '1      
r~~~~~~-  ---    -----  ---                              -i. - ----- ----- --  -
t1 ~~~~~~~~~Z A-  I A                                                       at   ZA IJ  A___ _  |



