Report No. PID5945
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Urgent Environmental Investment...
Project
Region                           ECA
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       AZPE55155
Borrower                         Government of Azerbaijan
Implementing Agency              Committee of Ecology
31 Istiglaliyat Street
370001 Baku,
Phone/fax: (99412) 926863
Environment Category             A
Date This PID Prepared           May 20, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         May 25, 1998
Projected Board Date             June 24, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1. Azerbaijan is wedged between Russia, Georgia, Armenia, Iran and the
Caspian Sea. Its 7.5 million inhabitants are predominantly Turkic-speaking
Azeris. It has a GDP per capita of about US$500. For the past 70 years, the
country has been one of the principle oil producing regions in the former
Soviet Union. Besides oil, there are also large chemical and petrochemical
industries.
2. The origins and composition of the proposed project were the result of
the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) finalized in November 1997. The
NEAP preparation was carried out by an Azeri NEAP team, under the guidance of
a Steering Committee chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Shariffov, and included
representatives from the Committee of Ecology, NGOs, the Academy of Science,
and other state agencies. To address the most urgent actions identified in the
Azeri National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), the World Bank and the
Government of Azerbaijan agreed to prepare an environmental investment
project. A large number of potential projects were screened using three
criteria: (a) critical importance for the environment and economy of
Azerbaijan; (b) urgency of the recommended actions; and (c) size and
complexity, with a preference for relatively small projects of a demonstrative
or pilot nature. From the list of potential projects, four were selected. Due
to the urgent environmental situation in Azerbaijan, the proposed project was
prepared, appraised and negotiated in less than six months.
Project Objectives
3. The objectives of the proposed project are: (a) restoring the capacity
of Azerbaijan to produce sturgeon fingerlings by building a new hatchery; (b)
demonstrating mercury cleanup technologies and procedures by cleaning up one
area heavily polluted by mercury; (c) testing and demonstrating onshore oil
field cleanup methodologies by cleaning up one oil field in the Abseron



peninsula; and (d) improving the institutional and regulatory capacity of the
Azeri environmental management system. The project would provide a sound basis
on which a follow-on or supplemental environmental project could be based.
Description
4. Sturgeon Hatchery (US$9.0 million). Sturgeon are some of the most
valuable fish in the world and the Caspian Sea has long been home to the
largest stocks of caviar-producing sturgeon. Caspian caviar comprises 90
percent of world production and has historically been a major earner of
foreign exchange for Azerbaijan. The sturgeon catch, however, peaked in the
1930s and has been in decline since. During the past two decades, the drop has
accelerated. The annual reported catch declined from 25,000 tons during the
1980s to an estimated 1,000 tons in 1997, a 96 percent drop. This drop in
stocks was the result of inadequate resource management, unsustainable legal
and illegal sturgeon fishing, and a decline in output of sturgeon hatcheries
in the countries bordering the Caspian except Iran. Most of Azerbaijan's
sturgeon come from the Kura river about 120 km south of Baku. During the
1950s, three sturgeon hatcheries were built along the Kura with a combined
capacity of 12 million fingerlings a year. Lack of funds, deteriorating
facilities, and the rising waters of the Caspian Sea caused Azeri output of
sturgeon fingerlings to drop. Sturgeon catch quotas in the Caspian are linked
to the number of fingerlings a state produces. If Azerbaijan's fingerlings
production is not improved, the country risks losing its share of the Caspian
sturgeon catch.
5. This component would build a 15-million fingerling sturgeon hatchery
near the town of Neftchala on vacant land owned by the municipal government.
Project funds would be used to prepare the site, purchase the equipment, and
install the components on a turn-key basis. The site was selected as the best
combination of proximity to the sea and safe elevation above the potential
flood plain of both the Kura river and the Caspian Sea. The site also has road
access and electrical power. The hatchery would be of a proven design similar
to those used in France and the United States and would incorporate recent
advances in sturgeon hatcheries.
6. Mercury Cleanup (US$8.1 million). Sumgait is a city of 350,000
inhabitants located about 30 km northwest of Baku and is one of the most
industrialized cities in the former Soviet Union with a number of large-scale
chemical and petrochemical plants. Sumgait's industrial zone borders the
Caspian Sea, and a large section of the nearby shoreline is severely polluted.
Today, production has decreased largely due to an economic recession causing
lower demand of the products. A lack of funds has led to a deterioration of
the industrial structures and production is now closed or continuing at a
limited level for most industrial production. The industrial activities have
caused severe environmental contamination of the Sumgait region including the
Caspian Sea. Human health indicators such as child mortality are significantly
higher in Sumgait than the rest of Azerbaijan.
7. Chlorine gas and caustic soda have been produced in Sumgait using a
mercury amalgam process since 1958. The original SAMIB chlorine plant ceased
operation in 1981 when a new chlorine plant was opened. While it was
operating, the old chlorine plant used large amounts of mercury, some of which
were lost in the sludge by-product or to evaporation, spills and mishandling.
There is an estimated 65,000 tons of mercury-rich waste sludge that have been
inadequately stored at the site as well as 40,000 tons of mercury-contaminated
- 2 -



soil and building debris from the old plant. These wastes pose a likely risk
for ground water contamination, wind-borne contamination, and leakage into the
Caspian Sea. Preliminary investigations indicate elevated concentrations in
the marine ecosystem including fish for human consumption.
8. Mercury is very poisonous to the human nervous system, has the ability
to bio-magnify as organic mercury through the food chain, and is often found
in high concentrations in fish. Thus, mercury waste in the area of Sumgait is
a threat to the sturgeon and caviar markets as well as to the health of the
population of Sumgait. The old chlorine plant was identified as a potential
source of mercury contamination in the Sumgait area and a cleanup component
was initiated in order to avoid further ecological damage. This component
would demonstrate mercury cleanup methodologies that could be used else where
to cleanup mercury contamination.
9. This component would have six sub-components:
(a) Testing of Pilot-Scale Sludge Treatment. This is aimed at finding the
most efficient method for dewatering and/or stabilizing the sludge making it
suitable for transport and disposal. The alternative methods to be considered
are: drying/dewatering, stabilization with inert material (cement) and
stabilization with materials that remove water in chemical processes (CaO).
(b) Developing and Applying a Low-Technology Method for Mercury Recovery.
The soils at the old factory site are contaminated with mercury in the liquid
elemental form which makes mechanical separation using low-technology
feasible. The recovered mercury can be sold yielding a minor financial
contribution to the project cost. After the mercury recovery, the soils would
be transported to the landfill for safe disposal.
(c) Transporting Wastes. The sludge transfer would be done by covered
trucks along a designated route which avoids inhabited area and dangerous
roads. Roads along the proposed route would be strengthened, and periodic
maintained performed. Bridges crossing canals along the route would be
temporarily lined and sealed. Trucks would be inspected to assure they meet
operational and safety requirements on a regular basis. Accident management
would be included in the transport design. Trucks would be washed before
leaving both the work site and the landfill and the resulting waste waters
treated.
(d) Constructing a Safe, New Landfill. A hazardous waste landfill meeting
international standards is being designed for final disposal of the excavated
soils, building debris, and sludge. The landfill would be in an area with a
high clay content soil that has no hydrological links to the Sumgait or Baku
water sheds. The landfill would be constructed using geo-textile lining on the
bottom, then a drainage layer, then another geo-textile lining, then fine
grain waste, then course grain waste with larger items (up to 0.4 meters)
placed in the center, then a top fill layer, a waterproof cover, and more top
fill, followed by a concrete dig-proof layer, another fill dirt layer, erosion
bricks and eventually vegetation. The landfill would be monitor for the five
years after completion and any leaks repaired under the contractor's five year
guarantee.
(e) Designing and Implementing a Monitoring Program for Mercury Emissions
to Air and Water from the Contaminated Site, for the impact of mercury
emissions on the Caspian Sea ecosystems and human exposure in Sumgait. This
monitoring program would start before the on-site activities begin and
continues for five years after the completion of the operation in order to
follow-up the expected benefits. It would include equipment for sampling and
analysis of mercury in air, groundwater, surface water, soils, sediments,
-3 -



biota, human hair etc.
(f) Follow-up Assessment. After the completed removal of the contaminated
soil and sludge, an assessment of the need for further actions would be made.
Further actions may include stabilization/isolation of any remaining mercury-
contaminated material not suitable for excavation.
10. Onshore Oil Cleanup (US$5.1 million). Baku is likely the only major
city in the world that has been built on top of vast oil reserves. For over
140 years, the land around Baku has been a center for oil production. Today
output in many of the old onshore fields has declined or ceased altogether.
Over 10,000 hectares of land near Baku were heavily polluted by the oil
industry. As a result, there are problems with ground and surface water
pollution, contaminated sediments, radiation, improper solid waste disposal,
human encroachment, and air quality. Economically, the potential environmental
liability of the sites has seriously reduced the interest of international oil
companies in participating in further oil production at existing onshore oil
fields using new technologies to increase oil production rates and reduce
pollution.
11. The oil cleanup component would have three sub-components:.
(a) A Series of Pilot Projects to Determine the Most Cost-Effective Method
for the Treatment of Oil-Contaminated Sediments and Sludges. Poor operating
practices have resulted in wide-scale oil contamination of the oil fields.
Cleanup of these residues will require large investments. To-date, no cleanup
projects on oil-contaminated lands has been completed, though several projects
have been proposed. It is believed that only the most heavily oiled wastes
will have a financial payback; the bulk of the cleanup would be for
"environmental" benefits at significant costs. However, there are insufficient
data on the nature of the residues and remediation costs. The project would
finance the development of pilot tests to determine the effectiveness, costs,
and financial viability of different cleanup technologies. Oil-cleanup
technologies to be tested include: sediment/sludge mechanical washing; thermal
treatment; and land farming/bio-remediation.
(b) Cleanup and Restoration of the Pilot Test Site. The results of the
pilot tests and other cleanup activities being conducted by SOCAR will be
evaluated to identify the most effective cleanup technology. Equipment for
this technology will be purchased and used to complete the cleanup of oil
residues at the test site to the extent possible given the limited financing.
The objective is to obtain experience and cost documentation for large-scale
cleanup activities.
(c) Continued Operation of the Implementation Unit in SOCAR. This item
would provide support for the continued operation of SOCAR's Component
Implementation Unit.
12. Strengthening Environmental Management (US$1.4 million). Effective
integration of environmental concerns into the planning and development of the
post-soviet economy of Azerbaijan requires a series of priority measures for
environmental management. Although Azerbaijan inherited a relatively developed
system of environmental laws, regulations and institutions from the former
Soviet Union, these should be modernized to meet the requirements of a market
economy with oil-led economic growth. In addition, measures should be taken to
protect human health and to conserve natural resources through improved
environmental monitoring and enforcement programs.
13. This component would support the Government of Azerbaijan, and the
- 4 -



State Committee for Ecology, in addressing high-priority environmental
management issues identified during the NEAP process. The interventions
included under the sub-components have been designed to support the
implementation of the other project components. The component would include
two sub-components:
14. The first is an Environmental Management sub-component with four
activities:
(a) undertaking a complete review of the institutional system and
structures for environmental management in the national government, and
developing a template for significant reorganization of sector ministries,
committees and state concerns, including the separation of functions related
to production and regulation. The results of this work would support the
Structural Adjustment / Public Sector reform project currently under
preparation in the Bank;
(b) undertaking a full review of the State Committee of Ecology, both at
the national and local levels, in order to rationalize its existing operations
and increase its cost effectiveness. This work would include a review of the
collection system for fees and fines and a rationalization of laboratories;
(c) building the capacity of the State Committee of Ecology. This would
take place in two phases in conjunction with any recommendations for
structural change from the review of the environmental management system.
Phase one would comprise identification of the training needs of personnel at
various levels, and Phase two would comprise training activities both in-
country and abroad; and
(d) reviewing the legislative and regulatory base and the standards used
for environmental management in Azerbaijan.
15. The second is the hazardous waste management and regulations sub-
component. This concerns the development of a cradle-to-grave management
system for hazardous waste. Activities will include the development of a
classification system and inventory for hazardous waste, a register for
producers of hazardous waste, the development and implementation of
regulations for storage, handling and transportation of hazardous waste and
site design. It will be developed in close cooperation with local experts.
This sub-component will support activities developed under the mercury cleanup
component.
16. Project Management and Implementation (US$0.9 million). This component
would support the existing PIU with technical assistance, office equipment,
training, procurement assistance, supervision and management support,
operating costs, vehicles, communications facilities, and rehabilitation of
offices.
Financing
(US$ million equivalent)
Source
Government of                      Local   Foreign        Total
Azerbaijan                         3.1       --           3.1
IDA                                8.8      11.2          20.0
UK Know-How Fund                   --       0.6           0.6
PHRD Grant                         --       0.8           0.8
Total                             9.0      10.7          24.5
-5 -



Implementation
17. The State Committee of Ecology would be in charge of project
execution, implementation and coordination. This Committee did an excellent
job of leading the development of the recent National Environmental Action
Plan and has experience with Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. A
Project Steering Committee was set up under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime
Minister Shariffov for project oversight. The State Committee of Ecology
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which was set up for the NEAP preparation,
would coordinate the day-to-day project activities. The PIU staff would be
assisted by project management and implementation consultants with expertise
in procurement procedures, disbursements and administrative training. This PIU
would work closely with an existing implementation unit in SOCAR, which was
set up to implement the Petroleum Technical Assistance Project and also has
considerable experience in World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures
as well as project accounting and auditing requirements. The Component
Implementation Unit (CIU) would implement the oil cleanup component. In
addition, SOCAR has established two committees responsible for the management
of the oil field environmental mitigation program: a steering committee
consisting of the General Manager of the Onshore Production Unit, the Deputy
General Manager of the Foreign Investments Division, and the Head of the
Environmental Department; and a working group with the Head of the
Environmental Department as the group chairman, Head of the Onshore Production
Unit, the Senior Geologist of the G. Z. Tagiyev NGDU (an oil and gas operator
which is part of SOCAR), an Ecologist at SOCAR, and a Procurement Specialist
from the CIU.
Sustainability of Benefits
18. Sturgeon Hatchery. Sustainability of the hatchery benefits will depend
on: (a) the availability of wild broodstock in the short to medium term; (b)
long-term assurances of sufficient funds for operation and maintenance; and
(c) being independent of the changing budgets and priorities of the state
fishing company and national government. The hatchery operations and
maintenance would be paid for by the government, but the subsidy it would
require in the short term is economically and fiscally justifiable because of
its contribution to future caviar production and rebuilding of Caspian Sea
bio-diversity. Moreover, the output of the hatchery would determine the annual
Azeri quota for sturgeon fishing and caviar production which are historically
important items for the economy. In later years, the projected tax revenues
from increased caviar exports would make the fiscal impact of the hatchery
positive and provide sufficient revenues for the long-term sustainability of
the hatchery. In the short term, a portion of funds for hatchery operations
would come from licensing fees from sturgeon fishing and future funds from
caviar exports taxes.
19. Mercury Cleanup. The sustainability of benefits would depend on having
adequate funds for the regular monitoring of the new sludge landfill, and on a
well designed and constructed landfill that keeps the toxins in the sludge
entirely contained in the landfill. The proposed project has identified a
landfill site of sufficient capacity to operate on a continued commercial
basis, and the contract for the mercury cleanup provides the initial start-up
revenues for commercial operation. Thus, it is intended that the long-term
monitoring and operation of the landfill would be paid for by tipping fees
collected from private enterprises using the facilities. The sustainability of
- 6 -



the benefits from demonstrating mercury cleanup methodologies would depend on
the techniques and procedures being applicable elsewhere. The proposed site
was selected as representative of other hazardous waste sites including
mercury. The cleanup of the contamination site is sustainable so long as other
potential sources of mercury contamination are not repolluting the area.
20. Oil Field Cleanup. The oil cleanup activities would create a knowledge
base regarding the actual costs and benefits of cleaning up onshore oil fields
in the Absorb peninsula which would enable the State Oil Company to develop a
long-term strategic plan for oil cleanup. In short, the results of the pilot
testing of various methodologies would determine the long-term sustainability
of the component. If the cost and benefits of the pilot tests prove valid at
other sites, the benefits from the investment would have a long-term impact.
The selected NGDU is very committed to implementing the trial cleanup methods
in a good faith effort, and the site selected is representative of several
dozen onshore oil fields.
21. Environmental Management. The benefits of this component would be
sustainable provided there is an adequate training program in place for
government staff, competitive salaries are offered to attract and retain
quality government employees, and the government provides adequate support for
environmental regulation and enforcement activities in the future.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
22. Sturgeon hatcheries are unique, and it has been decades since a large
hatchery with a capacity similar to the proposed one has been built. There
are, however, several private and public sturgeon hatcheries in operation
which are relevant to the proposed project. The sturgeon/caviar operations in
France, Iran, Kazakstan, Turkmenistan and Russia are also relevant to the
proposed project, and an international expert personally familiar with these
hatcheries helped design the proposed hatchery. From these operations, and the
operation of other fish hatcheries, the following lessons have emerged:
(a) Ownership. Government ownership of fish hatcheries has a poor record.
Designs are often inefficient and costly, and operations do not maximize plant
utilization and minimize costs per unit of output. To address the design and
efficiency issues, the new hatchery would incorporate the most advanced and
cost-effective technologies for sturgeon hatcheries. The proposed hatchery
would also be operated by an autonomous agency, with its own financing
sources, created specifically to manage the hatchery and insulated it as much
as possible from changing government budgets and priorities.
(b) Technology. Sturgeon hatchery technology has been improved in western
Europe by using locally bred broodstock. While Azeri hatcheries do not keep
broodstock, the proposed hatchery would develop this capability. Using
broodstock would substantially improve the efficiency of hatchery operations,
as fish can be manipulated to spawn for several months a year, whereas natural
spawning lasts only a few weeks .
(c) Preparation of Investment. Previous experience in Kazakstan with a
tender process for a sturgeon hatchery showed that there are dangers in only
preparing outline designs and asking contractors to quote for detailed design
and construction on a turnkey basis. Few international contractors have
experience in building fish farms of this nature which makes them
understandably cautious. In the Kazakstan case, this led to over-inflated
contingencies and unrealistic bids. For this project, in order to define the
scope of the work more closely, detailed designs will be prepared to
-7 -



internationally acceptable standards. The hatchery would be bid as one
contract, with a single contractor responsible for civil works and equipment
according to the detailed design specifications.
23. Mercury cleanup operations in Europe and elsewhere provide several
lessons which are relevant to the proposed operations. The first is that
mercury waste sludge is often contaminated with highly toxic chlorinated
hydrocarbons, including dioxins. This can pose a risk to those handling the
waste sludge. Thus, measurements would be taken to check the levels of highly
toxic compounds, and if these exceed safe levels, the waste processing workers
would be given proper training and equipment for the handling of the waste
sludge to prevent adverse exposure to the workers and further environmental
contamination. Second, the construction of a hazardous mercury waste landfill
requires careful control and monitoring while it is being built. The geo-
technical details such as the clay content of the soil in the entire disposal
area must be carefully checked on a regular basis during construction. The
proposed project would incorporate independent monitoring, supervision and
testing of geo-technical details during construction of the new landfill.
Third, the landfill should be sited in a low-risk area. The site selected for
the new landfill has no hydrological link with the Baku or Sumgait watersheds,
has very low-permeability clay soil, and is away from any settlements. Fourth,
proper accounting and identification of hazardous material loads are required.
This is to ensure all wastes are transported to the landfill site as planned.
The proposed project would include an accounting and identification system for
transportation of the waste sludge to the landfill.
24. The Oil Field Environmental Mitigation component benefited from
lessons learned during the emergency oil spill remediation project in the Komi
region of Russia. In the Komi project, the gas and oil production operator
(NGDU in Russian) which operated the pipeline was mostly interested in
replacement of the pipeline to improve oil transportation and relatively
uninterested in spending funds on the cleanup of oil spills accumulated from
long-term poor operating practices. The overall project included a significant
infrastructure component to replace the section of pipeline which was the
source of sizable and chronic leaks. Thus, the NGDU was willing to take on the
oil spill cleanup component only as part of the overall project. The active
participation of the NGDU in the oil spill cleanup component contributed to
the success of the project in terms of technology transfer and acquisition of
specialized equipment, so that the NGDU could continue to conduct oil spill
cleanup once the contractor completed the original cleanup program. During the
development of the project in Azerbaijan, an NGDU was selected that clearly
indicated a willingness to participate in the project.
25. The Strengthening Environmental Management component included a review
of lessons learned from related Bank-financed projects including the
Implementation Completion Report for the Poland Environment Management Project
prepared in 1997; implementation reports from the Russian Environment
Management Project and the environmental management components of projects in
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania; as well as the recently prepared draft paper by
ENV entitled Environmental Capacity Building: A Review of the World Bank's
Portfolio. The experience from these projects emphasize the need to: (a) have
clear objectives and be well focused; (b) support participation by a diversity
of stakeholders; (c) have flexible designs which allow for adjustments during
implementation; and (d) emphasize the strengthening of the environmental
management system as a whole. The review also identified the need for
- 8 -



intensive supervision by Bank staff during the initial 12-18 months of project
implementation and the importance of well-managed procurement and disbursement
during implementation.
Poverty Category
26. Not Applicable.
Environmental Aspects
27. Because of the mercury cleanup operations, the project was assigned to
environmental category A. Thus, a full-scale environmental assessment (with
public consultation) was developed for the mercury component by the State
Committee of Ecology with the assistance of the Swedish Environmental Research
Institute (IVL). Environmental reviews were completed for the two other
project components with environmental issues and merged into an overall
project Environmental Management Plan. All the land in the project is 100-
percent state owned, and the proposed project will not require resettlement
and is not anticipated to have any impact on cultural heritage.
28. The Environmental Assessment includes a series of mitigation and
monitoring activities which have been integrated into the design,
implementation schedule and budget of the project. Surveys of baseline
environmental conditions on land, in the sea, and in neighboring areas have
also been carried out. These surveys would be continued during the project and
for five years after the operation is completed. Details of the project's
potential environmental impacts and mitigation measures are included in the
project's Environmental Assessment.
Program Objective Categories
29. Environmentally Sustainable Development.
Contact Point:                   Roger Batstone (ECSRE)
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-3116
Fax No.:         (202) 477-3285
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 10, 1998.
-9-



