Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17426-AZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
FOR THE
URGENT ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
June 9, 1998
Rural Development and Environment Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Manat
US$1 = 3,870 Manat
(as of April 1998)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Manat per US$1 (end of year)
1994        4,430
1995        4,440
1996        4,300
1997        4,000
AZERBAIJAN - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 3 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS   -  Country Assistance Strategy
CIU    -  Component Implementation Unit
EMP   -  Environmental Management Plan
GoA   -  Government of Azerbaijan
FRR   -  Financial Rate of Return
IBRD  -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA    -  International Development Association (the Bank)
IRR    -  Internal Rate of Return
NCB   -  National Competitive Bidding
NEAP  -  National Environmental Action Plan
NGO   -  Non-Governmental Organization
NGDU -  Oil and Gas Production Operators (part of SOCAR)
NPV   -  Net Present Value
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
SOCAR-  State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Ishrat Husain, ECCO I
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver, ECSRE
Task Team Leader: Roger Batstone, ECSRE



AZERBAIJAN
URGENT ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data .............................................................1
A: Project Development Objectives .............................................................2
B: Strategic Context .............................................................2
1. CAS objective(s) supported by the project .............................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...........................................2
C: Project Description Summary .............................................................3
1. Project components .............................................................3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .................................................4
3. Benefits and target population .............................................................4
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .............................................................                         4
D: Project Rationale .............................................................5
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .........................................................5
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...................6
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ........................................................6
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .............................................................7
5. Value added of Bank support .............................................................8
E: Summary Project Analysis .............................................................8
1. Economic Assessment .............................................................8
2. Financial Assessment .............................................................8
3. Technical Assessment .............................................................8
4. Institutional Assessment .............................................................8
5. Social .............................................................9
6. Environmental Assessment .............................................................9
7. Participatory Approach ............................................................                                               10
F: Sustainability and Risks ............................................................                                                10
1. Sustainability ............................................................                                                       10
2. Critical Risks ............................................................                                                        11
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................................................                                        11
G: Main Credit Conditions ............................................................                                                  12
1. Effectiveness Conditions ............................................................                                             12
2. Other Conditions ............................................................                                                     12
H: Readiness for Implementation ............................................................                                            12
I: Compliance with Bank Policies ............................................................                                           13



ANNEXES
1. Project Design Summary ...............................                                                                14
2. Detailed Project Description ...................                                                                       19
3. Estimated Project Costs ...................                                                                           24
4. Cost Benefit Analysis Summary ...................                                                                     25
5. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ...................                                                         29
6. Project Processing Budget and Schedule ...................                                                             34
7. Documents in the Project File ...................                                                                      35
8. Statement of Loans and Credits ...................                                                                     36
9. Country at a Glance ...................                                                                                38
10. Maps ...................                                                                                             39



AZERBAIJAN
URGENT ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Rural Development and Environment
Date: Tuesday, June 09, 1998                                         Country Director: Ishrat Husain
Task Team Leader: Roger Batstone                                      Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver
Project ID: AZ-PE-55155              Sector: Environment              POC: Environmentally Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and Maintenance Credit          PTI:   [ ] Yes    [x] No
Project Financing Data
Loan       [x] Credit     [ ] Guarantee        [ ]Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ million equivalent): 20.0
Proposed Terms:                               [ ] Multicurrency      [ ] Single currency
Grace period (years): 10               [ Standard Variable    [ Fixed              [ LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: Standard
Service charge: N/A
Financing Plan (US$ million equivalent):             Estimated Disbursements (US$ million equivalent):
Source          Local   Foreign  Total                  By Bank FY  1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Government of Azerbaijan    3.1      --       3.1                    Annual  1.5    5.6    8.4    3.4    1.1
IDA                         8.8    11.2      20.0                Cumulative  1.5    7.1   15.5   18.9   20.0
UK Know-How Fund             --     0.6       0.6
PHRD Grant                   --     0.8       0.8
Total            11.9    12.6      24.5
Borrower: Republic of Azerbaijan
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: State Committee of Ecology
For Guarantees:              [x] None                        [ ] Partial Credit           [ ] Partial Risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$m)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee:         [] Yes             [ ] No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project Implementation Period: 5 years    Expected Effectiveness Date: October 1998    Expected Closing Date: December 2003



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                      Page 2
Azerbaian                                                                         Urgent Environmental Investment Project
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
To address the most urgent actions identified in the Azeri National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), the World Bank and the
Government of Azerbaijan agreed to prepare an environmental investment project. A large number of potential projects were screened
using three criteria: (a) critical importance for the environment and economy of Azerbaijan; (b) urgency of the recommended actions;
and (c) size and complexity, with a preference for relatively small projects of a demonstrative or pilot nature. From the list of potential
projects, four were selected. Due to the urgent environmental situation in Azerbaijan, the proposed project was prepared, appraised
and negotiated in less than six months.
The development objectives of the proposed project are: (a) restoring the capacity of Azerbaijan to produce sturgeon fingerlings by
building a new hatchery; (b) demonstrating mercury cleanup technologies and procedures by cleaning up one area heavily polluted by
mercury; (c) testing and demonstrating onshore oil field cleanup methodologies by cleaning up one oil field in the Abseron peninsula;
and (d) improving the institutional and regulatory capacity of the Azeri environmental management system. The project would
provide a sound basis on which a follow-on or supplemental environmental project could be based.
The project is expected to be implemented over five years and would contain three site-specific components and two institution
building components.
B: Strategic Context
1. CAS objective(s) supported by the project:.....Document Number and date of latest CAS discussion: No. 15948-AZ; 09/16/96
The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Azerbaijan. The current strategy focuses on four
main areas: (a) establishment of policy and institutional framework conducive to efficient and equitable private sector-led
sustainable growth; (b) enhancement of competitiveness in critical economic sectors, especially in agriculture; (c) establishment of
a more effective system of social protection for vulnerable groups; and (d) resettlement and rehabilitation of internally displaced
people. The project contributes to the Bank's focus areas by: (a) supporting one of the specific goals of the Bank in the country,
which is ensuring the policy and institutional framework are in place for implementing sound environmental policies; (b)
rehabilitating sturgeon fingerlings production, which would strengthen the country's long-term role in the caviar industry and
provide opportunities for private sector participation; (c) protecting the population's health by reducing the effects of the pollution
from onshore oil fields and providing safe and sustainable disposal of mercury-contaminated sludge along with monitoring human
exposure to mercury contamination; and (d) facilitating private investments, especially in onshore oil cleanup.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) identified four major sector issues: (a) pollution from industry, oil production, energy
and transport; (b) the Caspian Sea's sturgeon production and water level fluctuations; (c) biological diversity, forests and agricultural
lands; and (d) cultural heritage. The government has formulated a detailed strategy to address these issues. The strategy to address the
first issue is to reduce oil and associated gas emissions from on-shore oil production facilities and clean up areas contaminated by past
oil spills, implement timely power plant maintenance, install particulate control devices on the largest power plants, introduce
technology designed to suppress the production of NOx, upgrade emission monitoring equipment and leak detection capabilities for
industry pollutants, invest in compressor stations to control natural gas releases, increase taxes on leaded gas, restrict traffic in central
Baku, invest in environmentally friendly buses and trucks, require three-way catalysts on new cars, and increase the capacity to produce
unleaded gasoline. The govemmenfs strategy to address the second major sector issue involves more than 50 actions ranging from
constructing a new sturgeon hatchery, to relocating about 15 industrial plants and administrative facilities to areas above the potential
water level of the Caspian, to building 1,700 to 1,800 new homes for those households most affected by the flooding of the Caspian.
The third issue is being primarily addressed by a government strategy to introduce policy reforms to create conservation laws and
objectives, develop realistic, participatory forest management plans, and change the use of agrochemicals and irrigation systems. The
government's strategy to address the fourth issue is to restore about 14 historical sites and establish a research database for the
preservation of cultural monuments.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Within the major sector issues identified above, the proposed project addresses four of Azerbaijan's most urgent environmental
problems.
Declining Sturgeon and Caviar Production. Sturgeon are some of the most valuable fish in the world, and the Caspian Sea has long



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 3
Azerbaijan                                                                   Urgent Environmental Investment Project
been home to the largest stocks of caviar-producing sturgeon. At the retail level, caviar is potentially a one-billion US dollar per
year industry. Caspian caviar constitutes 90 percent of world production and has historically been a major earner of foreign
exchange for Azerbaijan. During the past two decades, the sturgeon catch has, however, dropped precipitously. The annual reported
catch declined from 25,000 tons during the 1980s to an estimated 1,000 tons in 1997, a 96 percent drop. This drop in stocks was the
result of inadequate resource management, unsustainable legal and illegal sturgeon fishing, and a decline in the output of sturgeon
hatcheries in the countries bordering the Caspian. During the 1950s, three sturgeon hatcheries were built along the Kura river with a
combined capacity of 12 million fingerlings a year. Lack of funds, deteriorating facilities, and the rising waters of the Caspian Sea
caused Azeri output of sturgeon fingerlings to drop. The proposed project would build a 15-million fingerling hatchery 20 km
upstream from the Caspian and would help move the Caspian sturgeon and caviar industries towards sustainability by restoring the
production of sturgeon fingerlings.
Mercury Contamination. Chlorine gas and caustic soda have been produced in the city of Sumgait (30 km west of Baku) using a
mercury amalgam process since 1958. The original chlorine plant ceased operation in 1981 when a new chlorine plant was opened
nearby. While it was operating, the old chlorine plant used large amounts of mercury, some of which were lost in the sludge by-
product or to evaporation, liquid spills and mishandling. There is an estimated 65,000 tons of mercury-rich waste sludge that have
been inadequately stored at the site as well as 40,000 tons of mercury-contaminated soil and building debris from the old plant.
These wastes pose a likely risk for ground water contamination, wind-borne contamination, and leakage into the Caspian Sea. The
proposed project would demonstrate mercury technologies and procedures to clean up the site and deposit the waste in a specifically
constructed landfill in a cost-effective and environmentally acceptable manner.
Industry Pollution. For over 140 years, the land around Baku has been a center for oil production. Oil producers, however, paid
little attention to the extensive environmental impacts. About 6,880 hectares of land on the Abseron peninsula are now
contaminated and pose a serious health hazard to the people living nearby due to problems with ground and surface water pollution,
contaminated sediments, radiation, improper solid waste disposal, human encroachment, and poor air quality. Output in many of
these old onshore fields has declined or ceased altogether. SOCAR, the state oil company, is seeking support from international oil
companies for the rehabilitation of these fields, many of which have sizable oil reserves left. Yet major oil companies have been
reluctant to become involved because of concerns about the environmental conditions of these fields and potential liabilities. The
proposed project would test cleanup options through a series of pilot projects to determine the most cost-effective method for the
treatment of oil-contaminated sediments and sludges.
Lack of Effective Environmental Institutions. Azerbaijan is one of the most environmentally damaged countries in the former Soviet
Union. For 70 years, it was one of the principal oil-producing regions of the former Soviet Union and a center for industrial
activities including large chemical, petrochemical and metallurgical complexes. Azerbaijan inherited from the former Soviet Union
a relatively developed system of environmental laws, regulations and institutions. Enforcement, however, is weak and the
environmental management system is ill equipped to deal with the country's pollution problems, especially given the requirements
of a market economy and oil-led economic growth. Urgent institutional improvements are needed to prevent further deterioration of
environmental conditions and to prepare Azerbaijan for the environmental responsibilities of a modern state. The proposed project
would assist the government to implement structural changes at both the national and local levels and would strengthen the
enforcement of environmental laws and regulations by improving the capacity for sustainable environmental management.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for project background and detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Costs are in US$ million equivalents and include all contingencies and aplicable taxes.
% of   Bank   % of
Component                                 Category     Costs  Total  Finan. Bank
(a) Sturgeon Hatchery                                                                      35
1. Supply and Install sturgeon hatchery                         Works             $5.1         $5.1   100
2. Procurement, supervision and training assistance             Services          $1.0         $1.0   100
3. Operation and maintenance of hatchery                        Services          $3.0           - 
(b) Mercury Cleanup
1. Preliminary work on alternatives                             Works             $0.5         $0.5   100
2. Sludge basins cleanup                                        Works, Goods      $0.9         $0.9   100
3. Old factory site cleanup works                               Works             $1.5         $1.5   100
4. Landfill                                                      Works, Goods     $2.2         $2.2   100



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 4
Azerbaijan                                                                   Urgent Environmental Investment Project
5. Improve and maintain roads                                    Works            $0.4         $0.4   100
6. Environmental monitoring and controls                        Goods             $0.7         $0.7   100
7. Management and technical support                              Services         $1.8         $1.8   100
(c) Onshore Oil Field Cleanup                                                              21
1. Pilot testing of cleanup technologies                        Works             $2.0         $2.0   100
2. Cleanup and restoration of one site                           Works            $2.8         $2.8   100
3. Support for the Component Implementation Unit in SOCAR       Goods, Services   $0.3         $0.2    66
(d) Environmental Management                                                                6
1. Strengthening environmental management capacity              Services          $0.6
2. Hazardous waste management                                    Services         $0.8           --    --
(e) Project Management and Implementation                          Good, Services    $0.9    4    $0.8    86
* Differences are due to rounding                   Total *     $24.5  100    $20.0   81
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Azerbaijan has some of the most extensive environmental problems of the former Soviet Union. Strengthening the country's
environmental management capacity is critical to addressing these environmental problems. Thus, the project would support
reforming govemment environmental institutions, building the capacity of staff, and reviewing the environmental standards as well
as the legal and regulatory system. The project would provide advice on macro-level reforms of government institutions involved in
environmental policy and management along with natural resource management which would help support the broader public sector
reform process. This would include, for example, reorganizations at both local and national levels, modernization of environmental
management systems and practices, training in planning, budgeting, in working with industry on issues related to compliance and
enforcement, in information management, and in data use in policy making. In addition, a full review of the government's
regulatory base and standards would be undertaken to determine how and where best to concentrate on developments in the future,
especially in the area of hazardous waste management which is specifically supported under this project.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The main benefits of the project would be: (a) increasing the number of sturgeon that return to spawn in the Kura river,
thereby increasing production of caviar and sturgeon and protecting Caspian bio-diversity; (b) producing a knowledge base on
which technologies are technically and economically feasible so that appropriate mercury and oil cleanup strategies can be
formulated; (c) performing an overview of the extent of mercury accumulation in the environment and human exposure in the
Sumgait area; (d) reducing the adverse effects of environmental pollution on the health of people from mercury exposure and the
onshore oil fields; (e) restoring up to 11 ha of oil-contaminated land; (f) providing safe and sustainable disposal of an old chlorine
plant's mercury-rich sludge, mercury-contaminated soil, and building debris; (g) facilitating the involvement of the private sector in
oil pollution and mercury cleanup; and (h) improving performance of the environmental protection institutions in the country which
benefits the entire population.
Target Population. The project would decrease the risk of mercury contamination for about 250,000 people living in and around the
city of Sumgait, and in the long term, the project would benefit all the Azeri people by strengthening the environmental institutions
of Azerbaijan and improving the sturgeon and caviar yields which have historically been a major earner of foreign exchange for the
country. The project would also decrease the environmental pollution affecting people living around the Buzovni-Mashtagi onshore
oil field. In the medium term, it would develop improved practices for on-going operation of onshore oil fields, thereby decreasing
the negative environmental impacts on the large population living near these oil fields.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 years
Executing agency: Project Implementation Unit within the State Committee of Ecology
Implementing agencies: Project Implementation Unit the State Committee of Ecology (all components except oil cleanup); State Oil
Company of the Azerbaijan Republic (SOCAR) (oil cleanup component)
Project coordination: Project Implementation Unit within the State Committee of Ecology
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): Project Steering Committee chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Shariffov
The State Committee of Ecology would be in charge of project execution, implementation and coordination. This Committee did an
excellent job of leading the development of the recent National Environmental Action Plan and has experience with Bank



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 5
Azerbaijan                                                                   Urgent Environmental Investment Project
procurement and disbursement procedures. A Project Steering Committee was set up under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime
Minister Shariffov for project oversight. The State Committee of Ecology Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which was set up for
the NEAP preparation, would coordinate the day-to-day project activities. The PIU staff would be assisted by project management
and implementation consultants with expertise in procurement procedures, disbursements and administrative training. This PIU
would work closely with an existing implementation unit in SOCAR, which was set up to implement the Petroleum Technical
Assistance Project and also has considerable experience in World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures as well as project
accounting and auditing requirements. The Component Implementation Unit (CIU) would implement the oil cleanup component. In
addition, SOCAR has established two committees responsible for the management of the oil field environmental mitigation
program: a steering committee consisting of the General Manager of the Onshore Production Unit, the Deputy General Manager of
the Foreign Investments Division, and the Head of the Environmental Department; and a working group with the Head of the
Environmental Department as the group chairman, Head of the Onshore Production Unit, the Senior Geologist of the G. Z. Tagiyev
NGDU (an oil and gas operator which is part of SOCAR), an Ecologist at SOCAR, and a Procurement Specialist from the CIU.
Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. The PIU would establish an accounting and auditing system which would have
the capability of recording and retrieving all financial transactions associated with the project in a timely manner and comply with
internationally accepted accounting standards. This would be used for tracking the funds to be provided by the Government and
other sources of funding. The PIU would open and maintain project accounts, as necessary, for counterpart funds. On the basis of
the data that it would collect from SOCAR and other entities involved in project implementation, the PIU would prepare proper
project reports and submit them to the Bank in a timely fashion. These include: semi-annual project status reports; procurement
reports; disbursement reports; annual audit reports; and an implementation completion report. Project Accounts would be audited in
accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The
costs of the annual audit have been included in the project cost and would be covered by the IDA credit. The appointment of an
independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. To ensure project implementation as programmed, a number of output indicators have
been identified and agreed upon. To guide project management, performance indicators have been identified and agreed upon as
well. The PIU would be responsible for monitoring these indicators and reporting on their levels. Additionally, in order to assess the
environmental impacts of the project, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was agreed upon at negotiations and would be
monitored by a trained staff member of the PIU responsible for ensuring compliance with the agreed EMP.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Sturgeon Hatchery. Use of existing hatchery sites was considered and rejected because of the threat of a rise in the level of the
Caspian Sea. Although sea levels have been declining since 1995, there is a real risk that the Caspian will rise again and flood the
existing hatchery areas. The current hatchery sites are less than a meter above the Caspian high-water mark of 1995. An alternative
site was selected that is approximately 20 km from the sea and about 2 meters above the 1995 level of the Caspian. A hatchery
design based on a tank system was selected over a pond-based system because the land requirements and capital costs would be
considerably less. Consideration was also given to reusing portions of the existing hatchery equipment but this was rejected due to
the poor general condition of the equipment and problems with design compatibility.
Mercury Cleanup. Several alternatives options were studied: (a) advanced local treatment with the extensive removal of mercury
from the soil and reuse of the soil; (b) transport of contaminated soil to an external facility for mercury recovery; and (c) disposal of
soil and sludge in a locally-constructed, safe landfill. The option of investments in process facilities, such as advanced washing and
detoxification, was considered and rejected on the basis of cost and a lack of infrastructure for maintenance of technically complex
equipment. Instead, the project team elected to focus on demonstrating simple treatment technology and relatively low-tech, but
safe, landfilling technology. A labor-intensive solution was also deemed to be more advantageous than a technology-intensive
solution. The project team found that a simple, but not extensive, recovery of mercury from the soil was economically feasible, but
that there would be little or no economic or environmental advantages in designing an advanced local recovery operation or
transporting to an external facility for extensive treatment of the soil or the sludge.
Oil Field Environmental Mitigation. The alternative option was the complete cleanup of the oily residues at several onshore oil
fields. This option was rejected because the costs of a complete cleanup were estimated to be prohibitively high. Also, it is futile to
conduct cleanup operations of the oil fields until significant changes are made in operating practices to control on-going and future
oil spills. To assist in developing future large-scale cleanup programs and funding strategies, the project includes a component to
determine the costs of various cleanup technologies through a pilot testing program, with an emphasis on the financial viability of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 6
Azerbaijan                                                                   Urgent Environmental Investment Project
cleanup methods. Based on the onshore conditions, six methodologies were selected by international oil cleanup experts as
potentially viable. These methodologies would be tested in up to 11 ha of the larger Buzovni-Mashtagi onshore oil field, and the
best methodology would be used to clean up the test site to the extent of available funding.
Environmental Management. Several project alternatives were considered and rejected owing to a reduced budget allocation. Plans
to re-equip laboratories were dropped when additional research showed that the costs of rehabilitating a single laboratory to
international standards would require significant reworking of the facility's physical infrastructure as well as equipment, and as
such, would far outstrip the limited funds available under the project. In addition, the running costs of such a laboratory would
probably exceed the available operating budget once the new laboratory was completed. It was agreed, however, that this option
would be reconsidered within two to three years once an institutional reform process has taken place. Plans to reform the National
Environment Fund and the system of fees and fines were also postponed since it was considered that it would be more beneficial in
the long term to redevelop a National Fund with earmarked funds once the oil revenues from off-shore oil production begin to flow.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned):
Latest Form 590 Ratings
Sector issue                                   Project                             (Bank-financedprojects only)
Bank-fmanced                                                                                  IP         DO
IDA has financed fish   India: Inland Fisheries Project;                                      Completed
hatcheries for carp and  Indonesia: First and Second Fisheries Projects;                      Completed
shrimp culture purposes  Bangladesh: Oxbow Lakes Project; and Fisheries Development II Project;  Completed
and for flood plain stocking  China: Freshwater Fisheries Project                             Completed
but not for sea ranching
purposes.
Mercury and contaminated   Bulgaria: Environmental Liability Pilot Project;                 Board Approved
soils cleanup            Brazil: Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project;    Completed
India: Industrial Pollution Prevention Project                       Completed
Oil spill cleanup        Russia: Komi Emergency Oil Spill Cleanup;                            Completed
Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia: Oil Pollution Management Project for the
Southwest Mediterranean Sea;                                         Completed
Argentina: Gas Utilization and Technical Assistance Project          Completed
Petroleum sector TA      Azerbaijan: Petroleum Technical Assistance Project                   Satisfactory
Improving gas distribution   Azerbaijan: Gas System Rehabilitation Project                    Satisfactory
Institutional Strengthening   Russian Federation: Environmental Management Project;           Completed
Poland: Environmental Management Project
Other development agencies   N/A
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
Sturgeon hatcheries are unique, and it has been decades since a large hatchery with a capacity similar to the proposed one has been
built. There are, however, several private and public sturgeon hatcheries in operation which are relevant to the proposed project.
These include sturgeon/caviar operations in France, Iran, Kazakstan and Russia. Two international experts familiar with these
hatcheries helped design the proposed hatchery. From these operations, and the operation of other fish hatcheries, the following
lessons have emerged:
Ownership. Government ownership of fish hatcheries has a poor record. Designs are often inefficient and costly, and operations do
not maximize plant utilization or minimize costs per unit of output. To address the design and efficiency issues, the new hatchery
would incorporate the most advanced and cost-effective technologies for sturgeon hatcheries. The proposed hatchery would also be
operated by an autonomous agency, with its own financing sources, created specifically to manage the hatchery and insulate it as
much as possible from changing government budgets and priorities.
Technology. Sturgeon hatchery technology has been improved in western Europe by using locally bred broodstock and artificial
feeds during most of the grow-out process. While Azeri hatcheries currently do not keep broodstock, the proposed hatchery would
develop this capability. Using broodstock would substantially improve the efficiency of hatchery operations, as fish can be
manipulated to spawn for several months a year, whereas natural spawning lasts only a few weeks. Using artificial feeds would



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 7
Azerbaijan                                                                   Urgent Environmental Investment Project
substantially reduce the pond area necessary for grow-out.
Preparation of Investment. Previous experience in Kazakstan with a tender process for a sturgeon hatchery showed that there are
dangers in only preparing outline designs and asking contractors to quote for detailed design and construction on a Supply and
Install basis. Few international contractors have experience in building fish farms of this nature which makes them understandably
cautious. In the Kazakstan case, this led to over-inflated contingencies and unrealistic bids. For this project, in order to define the
scope of the work more closely, detailed designs will be prepared to internationally acceptable standards. The hatchery would be
bid as one contract, with a single contractor responsible for civil works and equipment according to the detailed design
specifications.
Mercury cleanup operations in Europe and elsewhere provide several lessons which are relevant to the proposed operations. The
first is that mercury waste sludge is often contaminated with highly toxic chlorinated hydrocarbons, including dioxins. This can
pose a risk to those handling the waste sludge. Thus, measurements would be taken to check the levels of highly toxic compounds,
and if these exceed safe levels, the waste processing workers would be given proper training and equipment for the handling of the
waste sludge to prevent adverse exposure of the workers and further environmental contamination. Second, the construction of a
hazardous mercury waste landfill requires careful control and monitoring while it is being built. The geo-technical details, such as
the clay content of the soil in the entire disposal area, must be checked carefully on a regular basis during construction. The
proposed project would incorporate independent monitoring, supervision and testing of geo-technical details during construction of
the new landfill. Third, the landfill should be sited in a low-risk area. The site selected for the new landfill has no hydrological link
with the Baku or Sumgait watersheds, has very low-permeability clay soil, and is away from any settlements. Fourth, proper
accounting and identification of hazardous material loads are required. This is to ensure that all wastes are transported to the landfill
site as planned. The proposed project would include an accounting and identification system for transportation of the waste sludge
to the landfill.
The Oil Field Environmental Mitigation component benefited from lessons learned during the emergency oil spill remediation
project in the Komi region of Russia. In the Komi project, the gas and oil production operator (NGDU in Russian) which operated
the pipeline was mostly interested in replacement of the pipeline to improve oil transportation and relatively uninterested in
spending funds on the cleanup of oil spills accumulated from long-term poor operating practices. The overall project included a
significant infrastructure component to replace the section of pipeline which was the source of sizable and chronic leaks. Thus, the
NGDU was willing to take on the oil spill cleanup component only as part of the overall project. The active participation of the
NGDU in the oil spill cleanup component contributed to the success of the project in terms of technology transfer and acquisition of
specialized equipment, so that the NGDU could continue to conduct oil spill cleanup once the contractor completed the original
cleanup program. During the development of the project in Azerbaijan, an NGDU was selected that clearly indicated a willingness
to participate in the project.
The Environmental Management comnponent included a review of lessons learned from related Bank-financed projects including
the Implementation Completion Report for the Poland Environment Management Project prepared in 1997; implementation reports
from the Russian Environment Management Project and the environmental management components of projects in Estonia, Latvia
and Lithuania; as well as the recently prepared draft paper by ENV entitled Environmental Capacity Building: A Review of the
World Bank's Portfolio. The experience from these projects emphasize the need to: (a) have clear objectives and be well focused;
(b) support participation by a diversitv of stakeholders; (c) have flexible designs which allow for adjustments during
implementation; and (d) emphasize the strengthening of the environmental management system as a whole. The review also
identified the need for intensive supervision by Bank staff during the initial 12-18 months of project implementation and the
importance of well-managed procurement and disbursement during implementation. These lessons have been incorporated into the
proposed project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Azerbaijan recently endorsed the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and committed itself to
implementing the priorities identified in the document. The creation of the NEAP showed a strong commitment by the Government
to reviewing and prioritizing the environmental problems of Azerbaijan. The NEAP Steering Committee, chaired by Deputy Prime
Minister Shariffov, helped manage the NEAP preparation with commendable participation of stakeholders. This high-level Steering
Committee would continue to provide guidance during the implementation of the proposed project. The government places a very
high priority on this project and has shown strong support through out the project preparation. The government appointed strong
local counterparts early on and swiftly prepared and review feasibility studies, analyses and detailed designs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 8
Azerbaijan                                                                   Urgent Environmental Investment Project
5. Value added of Bank support:
The Bank's involvement would act as a catalyst for other environmental cofinancing and help to mediate differences between
project stakeholders. In the medium term, the Bank's assistance would help upgrade some of the environmental practices in
Azerbaijan and move key areas, including the sturgeon hatcheries, towards financial and environmental sustainability. In the longer
term, the Bank's involvement in the project would potentially create the basis for increased private sector participation in sturgeon
aquaculture. The Bank's participation in the sturgeon hatchery has provided local experts access to recent developments in sturgeon
production in France, the USA, and Iran such as broodstock manipulation, hatchery technology, water management, and modem
feeds, which had not been incorporated into local operations, and about which local scientists had little knowledge and experience.
The mercury and oil cleanup operations would demonstrate to the government and industry the measures needed for
environmentally safe treatment and disposal of hazardous material which could be replicated on other industrial sites within the
extensively contaminated Sumgait area and the Abseron peninsula. The Bank's participation in the environmental management
component would provide the benefit of applying lessons learned by the Bank in strengthening environmental institutions of other
former Soviet Union countries. It has also attracted additional bilateral donor financing which would not have been forthcoming for
a stand-alone project.
E: Summary Project Analysis (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by  [x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$40.5 million;    [ ]  Cost Effectiveness  [   Other
Annex 4):                   ERR=22.0                                        Analysis:                 [Specify]
The switching values of critical items and the main assumptions for the economic analysis are presented in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):                  NPV=US$2.1 million; FRR=10.8%
Fiscal Impact. The incremental recurrent costs of the project to be financed by the government during project implementation
would average US$400,000 per year. Annual budgetary contributions to the project from total government revenues amount to less
than 0.01 percent per year during implementation and could easily be absorbed within the budget. Government financing of
recurrent costs beyond the implementation phase of the project is also not expected to be a problem as government revenues are
likely to increase significantly with the growth of petroleum exports.
3. Technical:
Sturgeon Hatchery. The technology selected is of a proven design and is widely used for raising sturgeon and other species of fish.
Local knowledge of the new hatchery design is, however, limited. Azerbaijan has over five decades of experience in raising
sturgeon, and there are a number of highly qualified individuals who would assist in the hatchery's implementation and operation.
These local technical experts would be assisted by international experts familiar with the new technology, and key technical experts
would be sent for hands-on training at an operating sturgeon hatchery in France which uses similar equipment and techniques.
Mercury Cleanup. There are a number of technical alternatives for the cleaning up of the mercury contamination. The various
alternatives would be tested on a pilot basis to determine the most efficient method for making the mercury sludge suitable for
transportation. Various alternatives would also be considered for the recovery of elemental mercury from the waste sludge prior to
transportation. After the complete removal of contaminated soil and sludge, an assessment of the need for further action would be
made. A project management consultant would be responsible for the testing of the various alternatives prior to contracting out the
general cleanup activities.
Oil Field Cleanup. The cleanup of up to an I 1-ha portion of the Buzouri-Mashtagi oil field would be done in coordination with the
NGDU G.Z.Tagiyev which is the subsidiary of SOCAR that operates the oil field. This NGDU would provide technical support to
the contractors. There are no technical matters in the other project components.
4. Institutional:
Executing Agencies. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the State Committee of Ecology would be in charge of the
overall execution of the project and have already gained experience in Bank-supported project by preparing the NEAP. The PIU
would be strengthened under the project to handle the additional responsibilities. Furthermore, much of the proposed project's work
would be contracted out. The sturgeon hatchery would be built by a Supply and Install contractor selected by an international
competitive bidding process from a group of pre-qualified bidders. There are several firms which specialize in the installation of
fish hatcheries. Clean up of the mercury contamination would be coordinated by a project management consultant selected in a
competitive bidding process. The project management consultant would in turn prepare the bidding documents for contractors to
test cleanup alternatives, and once an alternative has been selected, a second round of contracting would begin to select the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 9
Azerbaijan                                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
contractor to clean up the wastes. The CIU in SOCAR would be responsible for the onshore oil field pilot tests which would be
done by independent contractors who could bid for one or all of the works contracts to test the efficacy of the different
methodologies. The CIU has the necessary capacity to implement this component and has gained experience in Bank practices,
including procurement, during the execution of an IDA-funded Petroleum Technical Assistant Project. The environmental
management component would be done by consultants specializing in environmental regulation and oversight.
Project Management. The PIU would be responsible for overall project management. The PIU would be assisted on a day-to-day
basis by a project supervision consultant for the hatchery construction and the aforementioned project management consultant for
the mercury cleanup.
5. Social:
The social assessment done as part of the NEAP process found that the decline in sturgeon fishing had a large impact on coastal
communities in Azerbaijan and reversing this decline was perceived by those interviewed as one of the most urgently needed
environmental actions. The hatchery component would help address the decline in sturgeon stocks and would provide relatively
high income jobs to approximately 35 people in one of the most economically depressed regions of the country. In the long term,
the component would improve the sustainability of sturgeon fishing and caviar production and help preserve sturgeon's historic
importance to Azerbaijan's culture and economy.
The mercury component preparation team found that mercury contamination has already occurred in the Caspian and preliminary
survey results indicated toxic levels of methyl-mercury in fish and other aquatic organisms. The fish tissue survey would provide
the data needed to prepare a program of public warning and education on the relative risk of consuming certain species of fish.
Infant mortality in the Sumgait area is six times that of the surrounding areas. While mercury toxicity is not the only consideration,
these warnings would assist the public (especially sensitive groups, such as children and pregnant women) in determining safe
consumption of potentially contaminated foods and management of their potential risk. This aspect of the project has the potential
to positively impact all members of the Sumgait population.
The oil cleanup component has a limited social impact relating to the positive health benefits for people living near the Buzovni-
Mashtagi oil field. There are no settlements or temporary homes on the oil field.
The environmental management component's social impact is limited to employees of affected government ministries who would
benefit from training to improve skill levels.
Since the sites for the hatchery, the oil field cleanup, and the mercury sludge landfill are 100 percent state-owned, and are not
currently occupied by people, there are no land purchase or resettlement issues arising from the project. There are also no
anticipated impacts on cultural heritage sites.
6. Environmental Assessment:
Environmental category:                          [x] A                [] B                [  C
Justification/Rationale for category rating:
Because of the potential impact of the mercury cleanup operations, the project was assigned to environmental category A. Thus, a
full-scale environmental assessment (with public consultation) was developed for the mercury component by the State Committee
of Ecology with the assistance of the Swedish Environmental Research Institute (IVL). Environmental reviews were completed for
the two other project components with environmental issues (hatchery and oil field cleanup) and merged into an overall project
Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
In sum, the overall environmental impact of the project is largely positive. There are, however, potential negative impacts under the
project which have been addressed during the Environmental Assessment process. These impacts include: (a) handling of mercury
contaminated wastes at the cleanup site; (b) treatment of mercury waste sludge with a high water content; (c) transportation of the
wastes to the landfill; (d) the landfill siting, construction and operation; (e) chlorine gas emissions from the chlorine gas plant next
to the mercury cleanup site which are a hazard to workers; and (f) hazardous contaminants in the oil field to be cleaned up.
To address these environmental issues, the project would include: (a) training and worker safety equipment for the handling of
mercury wastes as well as a health monitoring plan; (b) reducing the water content of the mercury-rich sludge by using mechanical
drying (centrifuges, vacuum-suction units) or chemical solidification (cement, calcined lime, bentonite); (c) transporting the
mercury wastes to the landfill by covered trucks (trucks' wheels and undercarriages would be washed before leaving the cleanup
site and the landfill and the waste water treated) along an improved and strengthened route that avoids busy roads or populated
areas with the one bridge crossing a canal used for drinking water sealed and lined and an accident management plan included in



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 10
Azerbaijan                                                                       Urgent Environmental Investment Project
the transport design; (d) siting the landfill in an isolated watershed in an area with soil of high-clay content to minimize risks to
groundwater and using best international practices in design (including proper lining) and monitoring on a long-term basis of
fugitive emissions and leachate seepage; (e) ceasing emissions from the nearby chlorine plant, as stipulated in a legal covenant and
condition of disbursement; and (f) training and equipping the workers in the oil field cleanup to measure the safety of contaminated
areas in the oil field and systematic monitoring for exposure to hazardous substances.
Review and adoption of the EMP was done by the Borrower during negotiations. Local environmental permits and clearances are
only granted in Azerbaijan after the detailed design of the project has been completed and reviewed. Preliminary approval to
proceed with the detailed design of the project has been given by the State Committee of Ecology. Further details on the projecfs
potential environmental impacts and mitigation measures are included in the project's summary Environmental Assessment report.
7. Participatory Approach:
Each stakeholder planned/actual involvement is described as: information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); or collaboration (COL)
Stakeholders                      Preparation            Implementation               Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups                IS/CON                 IS/CON/COL                IS/CON/COL
Intermediary NGOs                                --                       --                        --
Academic institutions                          COL                       COL                       COL
Local government                             CON/COL                     COL                       COL
Private sector                              IS/CON/COL               IS/CON/COL                IS/CON/COL
a Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The primary beneficiaries would be the 250,000 people living in and around the
city of Sumgait in the short term and the Azeri sturgeon fishermen and caviar producers in the longer term. Other affected groups
would include the inhabitants in the town of Neftchala near which the new hatchery would be located, the government employees who
would benefit from the institutional strengthening activities under the project, and the wider population which would benefit from a
reduced risk of contamination from hazardous wastes.
b. Other key stakeholders: the Ministries of Finance and Economics, the State Committee of Ecology, the State Fishing Company,
producers and transporters of hazardous waste, State concerns with responsibilities for environmental management, licensing or
regulation, the local governments of Neftchala and Sumgait, the State Committee of Lands, and the Z. Tagiyev NGDU.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sturgeon Hatchery. Sustainability of the hatchery benefits will depend on: (a) the availability of wild broodstock in the short to
medium term; (b) long-term assurances of sufficient funds for operation and maintenance; and (c) being independent of the
changing budgets and priorities of the state fishing company and national government. The hatchery operations and maintenance
would be paid for by the government, but the subsidy it would require in the short term is economically and fiscally justifiable
because of its contribution to future caviar production and rebuilding of Caspian Sea bio-diversity. Moreover, the output of the
hatchery would determine the annual Azeri quota for sturgeon fishing and caviar production which are historically important items
for the economy. In later years, the projected tax revenues from increased caviar exports would make the fiscal impact of the
hatchery positive and provide sufficient revenues for the long-term sustainability of the hatchery. In the short term, a portion of
funds for hatchery operations would come from licensing fees from sturgeon fishing.
Mercury Cleanup. The sustainability of benefits would depend on having adequate funds for the regular monitoring of the new
sludge landfill, and on a well designed and constructed landfill that keeps the toxins in the sludge entirely contained in the landfill.
The proposed project has identified a landfill site of sufficient capacity to operate on a continued commercial basis, and the contract
for the mercury cleanup provides the initial start-up revenues for commercial operation. Thus, it is intended that the long-term
monitoring and operation of the landfill would be paid for by tipping fees collected from private enterprises using the facilities. The
sustainability of the benefits from demonstrating mercury cleanup methodologies would depend on the techniques and procedures
being applicable elsewhere. The proposed site was selected as representative of other hazardous waste sites including mercury. The
cleanup of the contamination site is sustainable so long as other potential sources of mercury contamination are not repolluting the
area.
Oil Field Cleanup. The oil cleanup activities would create a knowledge base regarding the actual costs and benefits of cleaning up
onshore oil fields in the Abseron peninsula which would enable the State Oil Company to develop a long-term strategic plan for oil
cleanup. In short, the results of the pilot testing of various methodologies would determine the long-term sustainability of the
component. If the cost and benefits of the pilot tests prove valid at other sites, the benefits from the investment would have a long-



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 11
Azerbaijan                                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
term impact. The selected NGDU is committed to implementing the trial cleanup methods in a good faith effort, and the site
selected is representative of several dozen onshore oil fields.
Environmental Management. The benefits of this component would be sustainable provided there is an adequate training program
in place for government staff, competitive salaries are offered to attract and retain quality government employees, and the
government provides adequate support for environmental regulation and enforcement activities in the future.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                 Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to   Lack of familiarity with Bank rules on     M      Use already operating PIU in Committee of
development objectives procurement, disbursement, accounting           Ecology; building up institutional capacity
and auditing.                                    through training; advanced training and
procurement documentation preparation;
organizing project start-up and seminars on Bank
policies to strengthen credit administration and
financial management.
Lack of technical or physical resources for  M   Management, training and control.
implementation.
Project components to  Availability of wild spawning sturgeon   S      Government to give top priority to supplying
outputs              during next 10 years.                             spawning sturgeon to hatchery, effectively
giving lower priority to caviar production.
Emissions from the nearby operating       S      In a letter from Prime Minister Rasi-zade sent to
chlorine plant may risk mercury cleanup          the World Bank, the Government of Azerbaijan
workers' safety and reduce the envisaged         stated that it has decided to close the chlorine
environmental benefits.                          plant.
Lack of information on local technical,   M      Geological surveys are being carried out during
geo-technical and environmental                  preparation. The mercury and oil cleanup
information due to short implementation          components would prioritize cleanup areas and
time for preparatory project.                    work on those with the highest impact first then
alternative areas as project funding allows.
Lack of commitment on the part of the     S      The risk will be reduced through the appropriate
State Oil Company and an unwillingness           selection of NGDUs for the implementation of
to implement the project on the part of oil      the pilot oil spill cleanup components. Only the
and gas production operator (NGDU),              NGDU that participated fully in the preparation
given that most of the mitigation measures       of this project and showed a clear interest was
will be, at best, only marginally fmancially     selected.
viable.
Overall Risk Rating                                            M
Risk Rating: H (High Risk); S (Substantial Risk); M (Modest Risk); N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Riparian and Dam Safety Issues. The Kura river is an international waterway shared by Turkey, Georgia and Azerbaijan. The major
tributary of the Kura is the Aras river which is another international waterway that begins in Turkey and flows through Armenia,
Iran and Azerbaijan, which is the last downstream riparian on both rivers. The hatchery would extract water from the Kura
downstream of its confluence with the Aras river (less than I percent of the average flow, with most of it returned). Formal
notification of the Kura and Aras riparians as per Bank OP 7.50 was completed by May 31, 1998. Another issue is that there are two
dams on the Kura river which could have a potential impact on the operation of the hatchery. The first is a large earth-fill hydro-
electric damn that forms the Mingechevir reservoir (16 km3 capacity). The second is the Shemkir reservoir (2.7 km3 capacity) which
is also an earth-fill hydro-electric dam. As per Bank OP 4.37, these two dams under went a safety inspection by an international
dam specialist, and the safety status, operation and maintenance of the dams were found to be satisfactory. The full report is on file.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 12
Azerbaijan                                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) Appointment of Auditors. The appointment of an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness.
2. Other Conditions:
(a) Accounting and Reporting Requirements. In accordance with sound accounting practices, the Borrower will maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Project. The Borrower will provide the Bank the periodic reports detailed in the Project
Implementation Plan.
(b) Auditing Requirement (audit costs would be covered by the IDA credit). The Borrower will provide the Bank (within four
months of the end of each fiscal year during the life of the project), with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank
may reasonably request.
(c) Monitoring Indicators. The Borrower will: (i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof; (ii) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about
June 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph
(i) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and (iii) review with the Bank, by December 15, 1999, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
(d) Establish Hatchery Enterprise. The sturgeon hatchery enterprise would be established as an independent, legally charted entity
no later than December 31, 1998.
(e) Hatchery Operating Costs. The annual recurrent costs for the hatchery operation will be cover by the government from the
budget for a minimum period of five years and funds will be transferred into the account of the Hatchery entity in two equal
semi-annual allocations.
6q  Ownership of Land. The Borrower will undertake all measures necessary and appropriate to ensure that by December 31, 1998,
the Borrower has full legal title to and ownership of land required for the project.
(g) Implementation Agreements. The Borrower will fnalize and sign implementation agreements for the hatchery and the oil
cleanup components as conditions of disbursement.
(h) Cessation of Chlorine Gas Emissions. The Borrower will cease the releases of chlorine gas from the operating chlorine plant to
protect the nearby mercury cleanup workers by a date to be agreed with the government. This would also be a condition of
disbursement for the mercury cleanup component.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
[xl The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
] The following items are lacking and are discussed under credit conditions (Section G):



pr.js& AW,  Document                                                                                        Page 13
Azelb n                                                                         Urgent Environmental Investment Project
I: Compliace with BD k Polices
[x] This project complies with all applicable Dnk policies.
MmTh following xcx *on to Bank plicies are recommnended for approval: n.a.
Task Team Leader: Roger Batstone
Country Director: Ishrat Husain



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 14
Azerbaijan                                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Annex 1
Azerbaijan: Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision       Critical Assumptions
A. CAS Objective
1. Establishment of a policy  1 .1. Revised legal and     1. Project supervision as    1. 1. Sustainability of political
and institutional framework  regulatory framework for     detailed below, inclusive of  commitment to structural
conducive to efficient private   environmental management    follow up social assessments    economic adjustment and
sector-led sustainable growth                                                          restructuring, despite the
1.2. Improved enforcement   2. Comprehensive project     prospect of oil wealth
capabilities of the         review with agreement on
environmental agencies,     actions                       1.2. Public fiscal and
including adoption of                                     regulatory policies and
international standards      3. Periodic country portfolio    environmental standards
reviews                      supportive of private
1.3 Compliance with Basel                                investment and operation of
Convention on transportation                              market forces
of toxic waste
1.4 Private investments in oil
recovery
2. Willingness of the present
2. Enhancement of            2. Increased quality and                                  institutional and political
competitiveness in critical  quantity of Azeri caviar and                              structure to improve the
economic sectors, especially in  sturgeon stock to boost the                           hatcheries ownership practices,
agriculture                  agricultural exports and                                  and establish an autonomous
hectares of oil-contaminated                              agency to manage the new
lands returned to productive                              hatchery and restored lands are
use                                                       made available for productive
uses
3. Establishment of a more   3.1. Improved employment                                  3. Political and Institutional
effective system of social   opportunities in rural sector                             sensibility and flexibility in
protection for vulnerable                                                              implementing measures that
groups                       3.2. Improved health of the                               have no immediate return, but
population of Sumgait and in                              are extremely critical for
areas surrounding the onshore                             improving the social protection
oil fields                                                system
4. Resettlement and          4. Generation of more national                            4. Regional stability
rehabilitation of internal  income needed to meet the
displaced people             needs of the internal displaced
people
B. Project Development
Objectives
1. Sturgeon: create insurance    1. Create ability to maintain  1. Quarterly reports on key  1. Willingness of local staff to
against collapse of one or more  broodstock to augment natural  indicators following   adopt new technologies



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 15
Azerbaijan                                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision       Critical Assumptions
sturgeon stock, and limit    spawners                     construction completion      developed abroad, and success
dependence of hatchery                                                                 of these technologies for all
operations on wild spawners                                                            species concerned
2. Strengthen recruitment of    2. Release approximately 15    2. Quarterly reports on key  2. Availability of wild
sturgeon stocks              million fingerlings per year  indicators following        spawners during next 10 years
construction completion
3. Test mercury cleanup      3. Methods tested and        3. Quarterly reports on key  3. Assumes chlorine gas
methodologies in one         percentage of site cleaned up    indicators during        emissions from nearby chlorine
contaminated area in a low-                               implementation               plant cease
cost, environmentally
acceptable manner
4. Develop knowledge base for  4. There is an increase in the    4. Semi-annual reports on  4.1 Willingness of SOCAR to
improving environmental      amount of funds available for   potential and actual funds  undertake environmental
management of oil field      cleanup of oil-contaminated  being spent for cleanup of oil-  cleanup initiatives with limited
operations                  lands                         contaminated lands on onshore  economic incentives
oil fields, to be generated by  4.2 The availability funding for
the CIU                      oil cleanup (grants, loans,
credits, private investment);
Also, the willingness of
SOCAR to borrow funds for
cleanup with little direct
economic benefits
C Project Outputs
1. Improve sustainability of  I.Creation of Board of      1. Project review prior to   1. Willingness of Government
funding and effectiveness of    Directors and separate fund to   construction completion  to transfer hatchery
direction of hatchery        direct and financially support                            responsibility to public/private
operations                   hatchery operations                                       Board, and willingness of
private sector, local and
foreign, to shoulder the
operating costs
2. Improve hatchery          2. Hatchery design and       2. Review of technology      2. Training of local staff in
technology and operational   operations to reflect recent  proposed by world renown    new technologies is successful;
efficiency                   advances in technology and   hatchery specialists during  availability of spare parts
experience                  design and following one year  locally
2.1 Create independent       of operations
hatchery production company   2.1 Charter agreed
3. Demonstrating mercury     3. Methods tested and        3. Quarterly reports of key  3. May be other sources of
cleanup methodologies and    percentage of site cleaned up    indicators               mercury contamination
eliminating a source of
mercury contamination
4. Analysis of extent of     4. Completion of             4. Comparison of before and    4. Willingness of local people
mercury contamination in local  contamination study with  after levels of contamination    to provide hair for analysis
area                         before and after data



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 16
Azerbaijan                                                                       Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision       Critical Assumptions
5. More capable and efficient    5. Legal and institutional  5. Quarterly reports on     5. Govt willing to devote
environmental monitoring and   framework established for   progress                      scarce resources to fund
regulatory capacity          effective environmental                                     operations of an environmental
management and regulation                                  agency to enforce regulations
with adequate operating funds
provided
6. A knowledge base on        6. Actual data on the cost and    6. Technical and economic  6. SOCAR and SCE provide
appropriate and cost-effective   removal efficiencies of oil  review of the results of both    the necessary support so that
cleanup technologies          cleanup and mercury cleanup    the pilot tests and full-scale  the pilot tests and full
technologies                 cleanup and restoration       cleanup/restoration are
successfully completed
7. Reduced health risks to   7. The amount of oil recovered   7. CIU report on effectiveness   7. SOCAR provides the
populations living adjacent to   or removed from the sediments  of the overall site cleanup and   necessary support so that full
the cleaned oil field area    at the treatment site        restoration                   cleanup/restoration is
successfully completed
8. Cleanup and restoration of    8. Actual area cleaned and  8. Monitoring results on the oil  8. SOCAR and the NGDU
up to 11 ha of land          restored                      content of cleaned sediments;   willing to complete site
site re-vegetation           cleanup and restoration
9. Facilitation of the        9. Awards of contracts with  9. Tracking reports on the    9. SOCAR assigns the CIU
involvement of the private   private enterprises for oil field  status of cleanup of oil fields    responsibility for tracking oil
sector                       cleanup                                                     cleanup projects on the oil
fields
D. Project Components
1. Hatchery construction     1.1 Construction of hatchery    1.1 Quarterly reports       1.1 Availability of wild
capable of producing 15                                    spawners during next 10 years;
million fingerlings and                                    availability of local spare parts
maintaining sufficient                                     for equipment; effectiveness of
broodstock to ensure survival                              staff training
of all stocks, but particularly
Beluga and Russian sturgeon.
1.2 Water quality in Kura river
1.2 Provision of water supply    1.2 Quarterly reports     does not deteriorate further
and treatment of adequate
quality and quantities
1.3 Training of hatchery staff   1.3 Quarterly reports     1.3 Availability of young
in modern hatchery operations,                             scientists willing to learn new
both on site and abroad                                    technologies; willingness of
older scientists to adjust
traditional methods
2. Institutional and financial  2.1 Establishment of Hatchery   2 Project conditionality, further  2 Azerbalik and other
restructuring of hatchery    Board Joint Stock Company     review of effectiveness       Government agencies refuse to
operations                   reporting to the Cabinet of   following one year after start   accept new institutional
Ministers                    of construction               arrangements; newly created
Hatchery Board proves
2.2 Government to assure                                   ineffective in traditional
availability of operating funds                            Government hierarchy



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 17
Azerba9an                                                                    Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions
3. Demonstrating cleanup of    3. Percentage of site cleaned up  3. Quarterly reports and
mercury contamination at old                            independent supervision      3. Risk other sources of
chlorine plant                                                                       contamination, hazards to
cleanup workers, adequate
4. Analysis of the extent of  4. Completion of the analysis   4. Quarterly reports  landfill construction
mercury contamination in the
local area                                                                           4. Participation of local
inhabitants in analysis of
5. Institutional strengthening of  5. Functioning agency with  5. Quarterly reports  mercury in hair
environmental management    adequate staff and funds
capacity                                                                             5. Gov't needs to be committed
to improving environmental
regulation and monitoring
6.1 Oil field cleanup pilot tests                       6.1. Quarterly reports      6.1 The pilot tests are
successfully conducted and
produce meaningful cost data
6.2 The SOCAR Steering
6.2 Site cleanup and restoration                                                     Committee and Working
Group for this project commit
to providing the necessary
resources to complete the
cleanup and restoration of the
test site
6.3 These same groups take on
the responsibility to compile all
of the oil cleanup initiatives
within SOCAR and the
government into a knowledge
base, both on paper and within
the technical staff



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 18
Azerbaijan                                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Table IA: Monitoring Indicators and Targets
1998        1999      2000    2001      2002      2003
Project Development Objectives
Production of sturgeon fingerlings (millions)              --           --        8       12        15        15
Cleanup of mercury contamination (percentage complete)      --         25        75       100       --       --
Cleanup of onshore oil field (percentage completed)        --           10       50       100       --       --
Strengthening institutional capacity of environmental      --          35        80       100       --       --
management system (percentage complete)
Project Outputs
Physical Implementation
Clear site for new hatchery (percentage complete)          80          100        --      --        --
Construction of hatchery (percentage complete)             --          80        100       --       --       --
Mercury recovered (in tons of an estimated 250 total)      --          80        120      50        --       --
Excavation, transport and disposal of contaminated         --         10,000    20,000   10,000     --       --
material from the old factory site (in tons of an estimated
40,000 total)
Excavation, transport and disposal of contaminated sludge  --         25,000    25,000   15,000     --       --
(in tons of an estimated 65,000 total)
Closure of the landfill (in 3 phases)                      --        Phase I   Phase 2  Phase 3     --       --
Institutional Development
Create hatchery joint stock company, appoint Board of      20          100        --      --        --       --
Directors, and hire director (percentage complete)
Developing hazardous waste management system               --          35        80       100       --       --
Reorganization of environmental institutions involved in   --          100        --      --        --       --
environmental management
Strengthening of State Committee of Ecology                --          35        75       100       --       --
Review of legal and regulations for environmental          --           10       40       100       --       --
management and enforcement



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 19
Azerbaijan                                                    Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Annex 2
Azerbaijan: Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Detailed Project Description
General Background
1.     The origins and composition of the proposed project were the result of the National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP) fmalized in November 1997. The NEAP preparation was carried out by an Azeri NEAP team, under
the guidance of a Steering Committee chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Shariffov, and included representatives
from the State Committee of Ecology, NGOs, the Academy of Science, and other state agencies. To address the
most urgent actions identified in the NEAP, the World Bank and the Government of Azerbaijan agreed to prepare
an environmental investment project. A large number of potential- projects were screened using three criteria: (a)
critical importance for the environment and economy of Azerbaijan; (b) urgency of the recommended actions; and
(c) size and complexity, with a preference for relatively small projects of a demonstrative or pilot nature. Agreement
was reached to prepare five components:
(a)    restoring the capacity of Azerbaijan for the production of sturgeon fingerlings by building a new
hatchery;
(b)    demonstrating mercury cleanup and decontaminating one area heavily polluted by mercury in the
Abseron peninsula near the town of Sumgait;
(c)    testing cleanup methodologies on a pilot basis and mitigating existing pollution in one onshore oil
field of the Abseron peninsula;
(d)    strengthening the Azeri envirolunental management system; and
(e)    project management and implementation support.
Component A - Sturgeon Hatchery (US$9.0 million)
2.     Background. Sturgeon are some of the most valuable fish in the world and the Caspian Sea has long been
home to the largest stocks of caviar-producing sturgeon. Caspian caviar comprises 90 percent of world production
and has historically been a major earner of foreign exchange for Azerbaijan. The sturgeon catch, however, peaked
in the 1930s and has been in decline since. During the past two decades, the drop has accelerated. The annual
reported catch declined from 25,000 tons during the 1980s to an estimated 1,000 tons in 1997, a 96 percent drop.
This drop in stocks was the result of inadequate resource management, unsustainable legal and illegal sturgeon
fishing, and a decline in output of sturgeon hatcheries in all countries bordering the Caspian except Iran. Most of
Azerbaijan's sturgeon come from the Kura river about 120 km south of Baku. During the 1950s, three sturgeon
hatcheries were built along the Kura with a combined capacity of 12 million fingerlings a year. Lack of funds,
deteriorating facilities, and the rising waters of the Caspian Sea caused Azeri output of sturgeon fingerlings to drop.
Sturgeon catch quotas in the Caspian are linked to the number of fingerlings a state produces. If Azerbaijan's
fngerlings production is not improved, the country risks losing its share of the Caspian sturgeon catch.
3.     Objective. The objectives of this component are to: (a) build a 15 million-fingerlings per year sturgeon
hatchery about 20 km upstream from the mouth of the Kura river; and (b) create a sustainable institutional and
financial basis for future hatchery operations.
4.     Description. A site for the new sturgeon farm has been identified at Khilli, near Neftchala in southern
Azerbaijan. Some 7 ha of vacant land owned by the municipality of Neftchala has been set aside for the project. It
has been surveyed and found to be very suitable. It possess the best combination of proximity to the sea, safety from
flooding, and easy access to the Kura River for abstraction of water.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 20
Azerbaijan                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
5.     The design has been developed by a process of discussion between local and western aquaculture scientists.
It incorporates the most modem technology developed in recent years in France and the United States, while
retaining the concepts developed over the last 40 years by Azeri sturgeon farmers. The basic principle of operation
is to spawn sturgeon of the main species and strains native to the Kura River, growing the young fish up to
fingerling (3 g) size, then releasing them back into the river or the Caspian Sea.
6.     Although it is illegal to catch sturgeon in the Caspian Sea, the state fisheries company Azerbalik, has a
concession to catch them in fixed traps just outside the mouth of the Kura River. Most of these fish are mature
breeders returning to the Kura River to spawn and will form the main source of initial stock for the farm.
Approximately 12 tons of broodstock will be needed to produce the eggs for 15 million fingerlings/year. Although
greater numbers of fish are caught in Spring and early Summer, it is obviously important that all the main species
and strains are represented. Therefore production will be based on fish caught throughout the year.
7.     There are five main components to the fish farm:
(a)    broodstock handling and egg incubation facilities;
(b)    fry rearing facilities;
(c)    fingerling rearing facilities;
(d)    feed production facilities; and
(e)    administrative facilities and associated infrastructure.
8.     Most of the fish brought onto the farm can be spawned in a matter of days. Unripe fish will be held for
future spawning. Female sturgeon will not release their eggs without a hormone injection. Even then, the eggs do
not flow freely so most hatcheries kill the fish to get the eggs. A recent modification is to remove the eggs through a
small slit in the belly. After spawning this can be sewn up and the fish is capable of spawning again after two or
more years. Eggs are fertilized with sperm (milt) from males and after being treated to remove stickiness, are placed
into hatching jars. They hatch after 5 to 10 days and the larvae are placed into shallow tanks.
9.     The larvae do not feed for the first few days. However, they must be given a high-quality feed thereafter. In
Soviet hatcheries this has been zooplankton and a type of oligochaete worm. Western hatcheries have tended
towards using dry feeds. There is considerable debate over the merits of different feeding systems, particularly at
this crucial phase. The project will be equipped with the means to supply both dry feeds and live feeds so that
suitable feeding strategies can be worked out for the whole range of species.
10.    The young fish develop rapidly, taking approximately 2 months to grow to a release weight of 3 g. As they
develop they are moved to larger tanks, and progressively more of their nutritional requirements are supplied by dry
feeds. Research needs to be carried out on optimal release strategies. There is concern that if they are released at
Khilli, many will be lost through predation or being trapped in pump intakes before reaching the sea. The most
likely strategy will be to transport them by boat to the margins of the Caspian before being released.
11.    Some fngerlings from each year's production will be kept on the farm and raised for future broodstock.
However this is a lengthy process. Most of the Caspian sturgeon species do not mature until they are more than
eight years old. It may be worth considering shortening this process by catching immature fish from the wild.
12.    The hatchery will produce three batches a year, with two of them being at full capacity (6 million
fingerlings) and one at half (3 million fingerlings). Funds to support the operating costs of the hatchery will come
directly from the central government as a line item in the national budget. The hatchery will be managed by an
autonomous joint stock company that is 100 percent state-owned and under the Cabinet of Ministers.
13.    Estimated annual operating costs of the hatchery are (in US dollars):
Cost of Eggs                        75,000
Salaries                            45,000
Feed, Consumables                   50,000
Energy                              90,000
Maintenance, repair, replacement   140,000
TOTAL                              400,000



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 21
Azerbaijan                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
During the first three years, 35 percent, 60 percent and 80 percent of this amount would be needed.
Component B - Mercury Cleanup (US$8.1 million)
14.    Background. Sumgait is a city of 350,000 inhabitants located about 30 km northwest of Baku and is one
of the most industrialized cities in the former Soviet Union with a number of large-scale chemical and
petrochemical plants. Sumgait's industrial zone borders the Caspian Sea, and a large section of the nearby shoreline
is severely polluted. Today, production has decreased largely due to an economic recession causing lower demand
of the products. A lack of funds has led to a deterioration of the industrial structures and production is now closed or
continuing at a limited level for most industrial production. The industrial activities have caused severe
environmental contamination of the Sumgait region including the Caspian Sea. Human health indicators such as
child mortality are significantly higher in Sumgait than the rest of Azerbaijan.
15.    Chlorine gas and caustic soda have been produced in Sumgait using a mercury amalgam process since
1958. The original SAMIB chlorine plant ceased operation in 1981 when a new chlorine plant was opened. While it
was operating, the old chlorine plant used large amounts of mercury, some of which were lost in the sludge by-
product or to evaporation, spills and mishandling. There is an estimated 65,000 tons of mercury-rich waste sludge
that have been inadequately stored at the site as well as 40,000 tons of mercury-contaminated soil and building
debris from the old plant. These wastes pose a likely risk for ground water contamination, wind-borne
contamination, and leakage into the Caspian Sea. Preliminary investigations indicate elevated concentrations in the
marine ecosystem including fish for human consumption.
16.    Mercury is very poisonous to the human nervous system, has the ability to bio-magnify as organic mercury
through the food chain, and is often found in high concentrations in fish. Thus, mercury waste in the area of
Sumgait is a threat to the sturgeon and caviar markets as well as to the health of the population of Sumgait. The old
chlorine plant was identified as a potential source of mercury contamination in the Sumgait area and a cleanup
component was initiated in order to avoid further ecological damage. This component would demonstrate mercury
cleanup methodologies that could be used elsewhere to clean up other sites with mercury contamination.
17.    Objectives. The objectives of this component are to: (a) cleanup mercury contamination at the old chlorine
plant on a demonstration basis; (b) provide safe and sustainable disposal of the mercury amalgam process' old
sludge, mercury-contaminated soil, and building debris from the old plant; and (c) perform an overview of the
extent of mercury accumulation in the environment and human exposure in the Sumgait area.
18.    Description. This component would have six subcomponents:
(a)    Testing of Pilot-Scale Sludge Treatment. This is aimed at finding the most efficient method for
dewatering and/or stabilizing the sludge making it suitable for transport and disposal. The
altemative methods to be considered are: drying/dewatering, stabilization with inert material
(cement) and stabilization with materials that remove water in chemical processes (CaO).
(b)    Developing and Applying a Low-Technology Method for Mercury Recovery. The soils at the old
factory site are contaminated with mercury in the liquid elemental form which makes mechanical
separation using low-technology feasible. The recovered mercury can be sold yielding a minor
financial contribution to the project cost. After the mercury recovery, the soils would be
transported to the landfill for safe disposal.
(c)    Transporting Wastes. The sludge transfer would be done by covered trucks along a designated
route which avoids inhabited area and dangerous roads. Roads along the proposed route would be
strengthened, and periodic maintained performed. Bridges crossing canals along the route would
be temporarily lined and sealed. Trucks would be inspected to assure they meet operational and
safety requirements on a regular basis. Accident management would be included in the transport
design. Trucks would be washed before leaving both the work site and the landfill and the
resulting waste waters treated.
(d)    Constructing a Safe, New Landfill. A hazardous waste landfill meeting international standards is
being designed for final disposal of the excavated soils, building debris, and sludge. The landfill
would be in an area with a high clay content soil that has no hydrological links to the Sumgait or



Project Appraisa! Document                                                                 Page 22
Azerbaijan                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Baku water sheds. The landfill would be constructed using geo-textile lining on the bottom, then a
drainage layer, then another geo-textile lining, then fine grain waste, then course grain waste with
larger items (up to 0.4 meters) placed in the center, then a top fill layer, a waterproof cover, and
more top fill, followed by a concrete dig-proof layer, another fill dirt layer, erosion bricks and
eventually vegetation. The landfill would be monitor for the five years after completion and any
leaks repaired under the contractor's five year guarantee.
(e)    Designing and Implementing a Monitoring Program for Mercury Emissions to Air and Water
from the Contaminated Site, for the impact of mercury emissions on the Caspian Sea ecosystems
and human exposure in Sumgait. This monitoring program would start before the on-site activities
begin and continues for five years after the completion of the operation in order to follow-up the
expected benefits. It would include equipment for sampling and analysis of mercury in air,
groundwater, surface water, soils, sediments, biota, human hair etc.
69     Follow-up Assessment. After the completed removal of the contaminated soil and sludge, an
assesswent of the need for further actions would be made. Further actions may include
stabilization/isolation of any remaining mercury-contaminated material not suitable for
excavation.
19.    The project includes a significant component of training of local staff in technological and environmental
sciences. Significant efforts would be made in the training of local staff for the environmental monitoring. This
includes state-of-the-art techniques for sampling and analysis of mercury in the environment which can be used in
the future operation dealing with similar problems or for general monitoring of the environment and human health
in the future.
Component C - Onshore Oil Field Cleanup Component (US$5.1 million)
20.    Background. Baku is likely the only major city in the world that has been built on top of vast oil reserves.
For over 140 years, the land around Baku has been a center for oil production. Today output in many of the old
onshore fields has declined or ceased altogether. Over 10,000 hectares of land near Baku were heavily polluted by
the oil industry. As a result, there are problems with ground and surface water pollution, contaminated sediments,
radiation, improper solid waste disposal, human encroachment, and air quality. Economically, the potential
environmental liability of the sites has seriously reduced the interest of international oil companies in participating
in further oil production at existing onshore oil fields using new technologies to increase oil production rates and
reduce pollution.
21.    Objective. The proposed project component has the developmental objective of mitigating existing
pollution in one onshore oil field and testing cleanup methodologies on a pilot basis. The State Oil Company of
Azerbaijan, SOCAR, would be the implementing agency.
22.    Description. To achieve the above objective, the component would have three subcomponents:.
(a)    A Series of Pilot Projects to Determine the Most Cost-Effective Methodfor the Treatment of Oil-
Contaminated Sediments and Sludges. Poor operating practices have resulted in wide-scale oil
contamination of the oil fields. Cleanup of these residues will require large investments. To-date,
no cleanup projects on oil-contaminated lands has been completed, though several projects have
been proposed. It is believed that only the most heavily oiled wastes will have a financial
payback; the bulk of the cleanup would be for "environmental" benefits at significant costs.
However, there are insufficient data on the nature of the residues and remediation costs. The
project would finance the development of pilot tests to detennine the effectiveness, costs, and
financial viability of different cleanup technologies. Oil-cleanup technologies to be tested include:
sediment/sludge mechanical washing; thermal treatment; and land farming/bio-remediation.
(b)    Cleanup and Restoration of the Pilot Test Site. The results of the pilot tests and other cleanup
activities being conducted by SOCAR will be evaluated to identify the most effective cleanup
technology. Equipment for this technology will be purchased and used to complete the cleanup of
oil residues at the test site to the extent possible given the limited financing. The objective is to
obtain experience and cost documentation for large-scale cleanup activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 23
Azerbaijan                                                   Urgent Environmental Investment Project
(c)    Continued Operation of the Implementation Unit in SOCAR. This item would provide support for
the continued operation of SOCAR's CIU.
Component D - Environmental Management Component (US$1.4 million)
23.    Background. Effective integration of environmental concerns into the planning and development of the
post-soviet economy of Azerbaijan requires a series of priority measures for environmental management. Although
Azerbaijan inherited a relatively developed system of environmental laws, regulations and institutions from the
former Soviet Union, these should be modernized to meet the requirements of a market economy with oil-led
economic growth. In addition, measures should be taken to protect human health and to conserve natural resources
through improved environmental monitoring and enforcement programs.
24.    Objective. The objective of this component would be to: (a) assist the government of Azerbaijan in
developing and implementing measures to strengthen the overall environmental management system; and (b)
developing and implementing a modem system of environmental regulation and enforcement, emphasizing the
management of hazardous wastes.
25.    Description. This component would support the Government of Azerbaijan, and the State Committee for
Ecology, in addressing high-priority environmental management issues identified during the NEAP process. The
interventions included under the sub-components have been designed to support the implementation of the other
project components. The component would include two sub-components:
26.    The first is an Environmental Management sub-component to be financed by the UK Know-How Fund
with four activities:
(a)    undertaking a complete review of the institutional system and structures for environmental
management in the national government, and developing a template for significant reorganization
of sector ministries, committees and state concerns, including the separation of functions related to
production and regulation. The results of this work would support the Structural Adjustment /
Public Sector reform project currently under preparation in the Bank;
(b)    undertaking a full review of the State Committee of Ecology, both at the national and local levels,
in order to rationalize its existing operations and increase its cost effectiveness. This work would
include a review of the collection system for fees and fines and a rationalization of laboratories;
(c)    building the capacity of the State Committee of Ecology. This would take place in two phases in
conjunction with any recommendations for structural change from the review of the
environmental management system. Phase one would comprise identification of the training needs
of personnel at various levels, and Phase two would comprise training activities both in-country
and abroad; and
(d)    reviewing the legislative and regulatory base and the standards used for enviromnental
management in Azerbaijan.
27.    The second is the Hazardous Waste Management sub-component. This concerns the development of a
cradle-to-grave management system for hazardous waste. Activities will include the development of a classification
system and inventory for hazardous waste, a register for producers of hazardous waste, the development and
implementation of regulations for storage, handling and transportation of hazardous waste and site design. It will be
developed in close cooperation with local experts. This sub-component will support activities developed under the
mercury cleanup component. A PHRD Grant Application has been made to cover its costs.
Component E - Project Management and Implementation (US$0.9 million)
28.    Objective. The proposed project component would provide assistance to the PIU.
29.    Description. This component would support the existing PIU with technical assistance, office equipment,
training, procurement assistance, supervision and management support, operating costs, vehicles, communications
facilities, and rehabilitation of offices.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 24
Azerbaijan                                                      Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Annex 3
Azerbaijan: Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Estimated Project Costs
Table 3A: Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Component                                  Local   Foreign    Total   % of Base
Cost
Sturgeon Hatchery                                   3.44      3.56     7.00      35
Mercury Cleanup                                     2.90      3.77     6.67      34
Onshore Oil Cleanup                                 2.36      1.77     4.13      21
Enviromnental Management                           --         1.23      1.23      6
Project Management and Implementation               0.37      0.39     0.76       4
Total Baseline Cost                  9.01    10.72     19.79    100
Physical Contingencies                              0.96      0.86      1.82      9
Price Contingencies                                 1.91      0.98     2.89      15
Total Project Cost                 11.95     12.56    24.51
Detailed costs are shown in the Project Implementation Plan



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 25
Azerbaijan                                                          Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Annex 4
Azerbaijan: Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Summary Project Assessment
Cost-Benefit Assessment
Economic Analysis                         NPV                ERR           Net Fiscal Impacts
(US$ million)
Sturgeon Hatchery                        36.39               24.6%                9.02
Oil Cleanup                               0.19               17.7%               -0.59
Mercury Recovery                          3.92               15.8%               -5.97
Total Project                            40.51               22.0%                2.46
Financial Analysis                        NPV                 FRR
(US$ million)
Sturgeon Hatchery                         9.25               14.9%
Oil Cleanup                               -0.97               NA
Mercury Recovery                         -6.23                NA
Total Project                             2.05               10.8%
Notes:
1.  The project life is 35 years and costs and benefits are discounted at 10%.
1.  The adjustment from financial prices to economic border prices includes the following conversion factors: skilled labor 0.8, unskilled labor 0.4, and foreign
exchange premium 1.13.
2.  The cost of the PIU component has been included in the following proportions: sturgeon hatchery component 47% and mercury clean-up 44%.
Analysis of the Sturgeon Hatchery Component
Category                             Economic Analysis                  Financial Analysis
(US$ million)              Fishery Sector Point of View
(US$ million)
Benefits                                    47.07                              21.16
Costs                                      (10.68)                            (11.91)
Net Benefits                                36.39                              9.25
IRR                                        24.6%                               14.9%
Positive externalities
Labor Force                                 3.09
Domestic consumers                          3.12
Government                                 20.93
Sub-total                                 27.14
Net fiscal impacts
Export taxes                                                                   15.81
VAT sales                                                                       1.25
Foreign exchange premium                                                       3.87
Capital subsidy                                                               (7.86)
Recurrent subsidy                                                              (4.05)
Sub-total                                                                     9.02



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 26
Azerbaijan                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Overall assessment. The market value of a greater number of sturgeon in the Kura river justifies the proposed level of investment on
both economic and financial grounds.
Benefits. The economic benefits derived from the enhancement or recovery of sturgeon stock are: (i) the commercial value of sturgeon
to Azerbaijan and other countries bordering the Caspian Sea; (ii) the non-use or existence values of protecting sturgeon from
extinction; and (iii) the biodiversity value since sturgeon can be used as a source of medicine and genetic material. Commercial value
to Azerbaijan of returning hatchery fish to the Kura river is the only quantified benefit. The financial analysis focuses on assessing the
financial benefits of the sturgeon hatchery at the level of Azerbalik in order to measure the financial return of the project. It measures
costs and benefits in market prices and excludes the cost of financing.
Assumptions. Fishery production benefits were estimated based on the following assumptions:
-   1/2 of the those adult hatchery fish will return to the Kura river.
-  Average weight of a mature fish is 25 kg and its average weight in caviar and meat are 7.5% and 92.5%, respectively.
-  Caviar exports will reach 100 tons after year 2027.
-  Export parity price for caviar and sturgeon meat will remain constant over the life of the project at $170 and $2 per kg,
respectively.
-  Production costs of caviar and meat will remain constant at $25 and $0.5 per kg, respectively.
-  Value added tax and the export duty levied on caviar and sturgeon meat will remain constant at 20% and 70%, respectively.
Fiscal impacts. The net impact of this component on government finance is positive. Net fiscal impact is estimated at US$9.02
million. Fiscal transfers to the government through value added taxes, foreign exchange premium and export taxes offset capital and
recurrent subsidies.
Sensitive analysis. The major variables that may jeopardize the project economic rate of return are: export price of caviar, investment
costs overruns, sturgeon weight in caviar, caviar exports, and retuming mature hatchery fish. The results of the risk analysis to test the
impact of simultaneous changes in the risk variables show that the project is low risk. Expected economic rate of return will vary
between 23% and 33%.
Analysis of the Mercury Clean-Up Component
Category                          Economic Analysis               Financial Analysis
(US$ million)            Government Point of View
(US$ million)
Benefits                                10.07                           0.25
Costs                                   (6.16)                          (6.48)
Net Benefits                             3.92                           (6.23)
IRR                                     15.8%                            NA
Positive exteralities
Labor Force                              0.77
Society                                 7.77
Fishery sector                           1.36
Govemment                                0.26
Sub-total                              10.15
Net Fiscal impacts
Foreign exchange premium                                                (0.24)
Taxes (VAT, exports)                                                    0.50
Mercury recovery sales                                                  0.25
Capital subsidy                                                        (6.00)
Recurrent subsidy                                                       (0.48)
Sub-total                                                             (5.97)
Overall assessment. This project generates large positive extemalities which are not internalized by the market prices of goods and
services. The project will generate a net positive economic benefit of US$3.92 million and a negative financial benefit of US$6.23
million. Labor force, the society in general, the fishery sector, and the govenmment would benefit from the extemalities generated by



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 27
Azerbaijan                                                    Urgent Environmental Investment Project
the proposed component. Benefits to the labor force come in the form of wage premium above market wages paid to construction
workers. Society would benefit from the public health benefits generated by the project. Benefits to the fishery sector will come as a
result of the no-rejection of caviar exports and the no reduction of fishery production. Finally, the government also derives benefits by
collecting additional export taxes, value-added tax on sales of fishery products, and foreign exchange premium.
Benefits. The benefits to be derived from this project are: (i) revenue of the sales of recovered mercury; (ii) public health impacts
through a reduction in mercury exposure and educational campaign; (iii) avoidable rejection of caviar exports; (iv) avoidable fishery
production losses; and (iv) fish meat substitution.
Assumptions. The assumptions made to quantify the benefits listed above are the following:
-  275 tons of mercury will be recovered and sold at a market price of $1,200 per ton.
-  Neonatal mortality rate (18.5/1000 pregnant women) of the population of Sumgait living close to the waste site will be reduced
by 50% (i.e., 7 out of 1,000 neonatal deaths in the Sumgait area will be avoided).
-  Defects on development rate (60/1000 births) of the population of Sumgait living close to the waste site will be reduced by 50%
(i.e., 3 out of 10,000 women of child bearing age living in the Sumgait area will not be exposed to bear a child with major birth
defects).
-  Slow development rate (estimated at 25/1000 births) of Baku's children consuming 100 gr or more of fish per day will be reduced
by 50% as a result of the educational campaign (i.e., 4 out of 10,000 children age 0-15 in Baku will not be exposed to slow
development).
-  15% of the population in Baku was assumed to consumed more than 100 gr. of fish per day.
-  Premature child death was valued at $18,000.
-  Cost of avoiding major negative impacts on development at the time of birth was valued at US$9,200 per case.
-  Cost of avoiding slow development on children exposed to contaminated fish was valued at US$1,800 per case.
-  2% of caviar exports will be rejected.
Fiscal impacts. The net impact of the project on government finance is negative and estimated at $5.97 million.
Sensitive analysis. The major variables that may jeopardize the project economic rate of return are: value of life, cost of avoiding
negative impacts of development on children exposed to contaminated fish, percentage of population consuming fish, and reduction
of coverage and impacts of education campaign. The results of the risk analysis to test the impact of simultaneous changes in the risk
variables show that the project is low risk. Expected economic rate of return will vary between 11% and 28%.
Analysis of the Oil Clean-Up Component
Category                        Economic Analysis           Financial Analysis
(US$ million)           SOCAR Point of View
(US$ million)
Benefits                              3.58                         2.76
Costs                                (3.38)                       (3.73)
Net Benefits                          0.19                        (0.97
IRR                                   17.7%                        NA
Positive externalities
Labor Force                           0.55
Society                               0.23
Government                            0.38
Sub-total                            1.16
Fiscal impacts
Foreign exchange premium                                          (0.20)
VAT oil sales                                                      0.55
Property taxes                                                     0.03
Oil recovery sales                                                 2.76
Capital subsidy                                                   (3.73)
Sub-total                                                       (0.59)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 28
Azerbaijan                                                     Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Overall assessment. The project will generate a net positive economic benefit of US$0.19 million and a negative financial benefit of
US$0.97 million. The labor force, the real estate market, and the government would benefit from the externalities generated by the
proposed component. Benefits to the labor force come in the forn of wage premium above market wages paid to construction
workers. The real estate market would benefit from an increased in land value by converting useless land to residential purpose land.
Finally, the government also derives benefits by collecting additional value-added tax on oil sales and property taxes.
Benefits. The benefits to be derived from this project are: (i) revenue of the sales of recovered oil; and (ii) increased in land value.
Assumptions. The assumptions made to quantify the benefits listed above are the following:
-  500,000 cubic meters of oil-polluted soil with a mean recoverable oil content of 20% will be cleaned.
-   100,000 tons of oil will be recovered and sold at a market price of $35 per ton.
-   11 hectare of land will be made attractive for residential purposes.
-  Average value of land is estimated at $10,000 per hectare, and expected to increase at a rate of 7% per year.
-  Property tax is expected to remain constant at 1.5% per year.
Fiscal impacts. The net impact of the project on government finance is negative and estimated at $0.59 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 29
Azerbaijan                                                    Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Annex 5
Azerbaijan: Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Methods (Table A)
I.     The detailed procurement plan is provided in the Project Implementation Plan. What follows is a summary of the project's
procurement arrangements. Procurement would be the responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the State Committee
of Ecology. This PIU was established under a World Bank Institutional Development Grant for the preparation of the National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), and its staff has acquired some experience in Bank procedures. The Director of the NEAP
project has been appointed as the Director of this PIU. A procurement officer has also been appointed. She has some experience in
procurement. She will attend the next procurement training course in Turin. In addition, it would be supported by a management
consultant. Close to credit effectiveness, a project launch workshop would be held to ensure that those involved in project
implementation understand the Bank's requirements especially with regard to procurement.
2.     The procurement of goods of the IDA-financed components would be procured in accordance to the Bank/IDA procurement
guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January and August, 1996, and
September 1997. The project components not financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with national regulations or the
cofinancing institutions' procurement regulations. The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are
summarized in Table A of this annex. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement
actions along with all other procurement information, including capability of the implementing agency and the Bank's review process
is presented in the Project Implementation Plan. A General Procurement Notice was published in the Development Business in
February 1998.
Disbursement Arrangements (Table B)
3.     The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five years, from mid-1998 to mid-2003, with an anticipated
completion date of June 30, 2003. A closing date of December 31, 2003 is proposed. The disbursement profile was established using
the Bank's past experience in the execution of similar projects. Disbursements would follow normal World Bank and cofinancier's
procedures and would be made against eligible categories of project expenditures by: (a) special commitments in support of letters of
credit issued by the Borrower's bank in favor of foreign suppliers of goods; (b) direct payment to suppliers; and (c) reimbursement of
eligible expenditures for payment already made by government agencies.
4.     To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under conditions, acceptable
to the Bank, a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the
Special Account would be limited to US$500,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the credit have reached the
level of SDRI.5 million, the initial allocation may be increase up to the authorized allocation of US$1 million by submitting the
relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
5.     The credit would be at the Bank's standard for IDA credits, on amortized terms based on a maturity of 35 years, including 10
years of grace. Allocation of credit proceeds is shown in Table B.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 30
Azerbaijan                                                          Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method                        Total Cost
ICB         NCB           Other      N.B.F.
Component A - Construc-
tion of Hatchery
Goods                                                   0.042                       0.42
(0.042)a                    (0.042)
Works (Supply & Install)     5.070                                                   5.070
(5.070)                                                 (5.070)
Services                                                0.962                         0.962
(0.962) b                    (0.962)
Operating Expenses                                                 2.975              2.975
Subtotal                     5.070                      1.004      2.975             9.050
(5.070)                    (1.004)                      (6.074)
Component B - Mercury
Cleanup
Goods                        0.952        0.426         0.159                        1.537
(0.952)      (0.426)      (0.159) a                    (1.537)
Works                        2.675        0.950                                      3.625
(2.675)      (0.950)                                    (3.625)
Services                                               2.978                         2.968
(2.978) b                    (2.968)
Subtotal                     3.627        1.376        3.137                         8.140
(3.627)     (1.376)       (3.137)                       (8.140)
Component C - Oil Cleanup
Goods                                                  0.018                         0.018
(0.018) a                    (0.018)
Works                        4.771                                                   4.771
(4.771)                                                 (4.771)
Services                                                0.199                        0.199
(0.199) b                    (0.199)
Operating Expenses                                      0.013       0.059            0.072
(0.0 13) c                   (0.013)
Subtotal                     4.771          -           0.230       0.059            5.060
(4.771)                   (0.230)                      (5.000)
Component D - Strength. Env.
Management
Services                                                             1.550            1.550
Subtotal                        -            -             -         1.550            1.550
Component E - PIU
Goods                                                   0.141                        0.141
(0.141)a                     (0.141)
Services                                              (0.617)                        0.617
(0.617)b                     (0.617)
Operating Expenses                                      0.028       0.125            0.153
incl. PIU maintenance                                 (0.028) c                     (0.028)
and operating costs
Subtotal                       -            -          0.786       0.125             0.911
(0.786)                     (0.786)
Total                           13.468        1.376        5.156       4.510            24.510
(13.468)     (1.376)       (5.156)                      (20.00)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank credit.
Costs include contingencies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 31
Azerbaijan                                                                 Urgent Environmental Investment Project
ICB = International Competitive Bidding.
NCB = National Competitive Bidding.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
a/ Two IS contracts (aggregate US$269,000); five NS contracts (US$91,000).
b/ One QBS contract for Hatchery (US$772,000) and one Sole Source contract for a specialized hatchery expert (US$190,000); two QCBS (US$2,850,000); individuals
(US$832,000); and public information campaign (seminars, workshops) for environmental awareness and training of PIU staff (US$103,000)
c/ Operating Expenses (US$41,000) includes office supplies, gas and maintenance of PIU car.
Table B: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(in US$ million equivalent)
Category                             Amount       Expenditures to be Financed
Civil Works                            10.57       100% (net of taxes)
Goods                                   3.06      100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
85% local expenditures of other items procured locally
Consultant Services                     4.59      100%
Operating Costs                         0.41      100%
Unallocated                             1.37
Total                   20.00



Table C: Project Procurement-Related Information and Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
____________m_E__  _ _________'_____0                S ec00\  0   ;j Xt ion    1: 0t Proc ure mn   ie
Goods and Civil         ICB                NOB                 IS              NS        Minor Works   Other   Percentage of credit amount
Works                                                                                             methods  subject to prior review
Procurement         G  0.200         G <0.470             <0.200           <0.050         n.a          n.a.
thresholds: individual and  (US$0.952)  (US$0.47         (US$0.270)        (US$0.091)
aggregate           CW>0.500         CW<0.500
(US$12.51)       (US$5.638)
Prior Review        All (US$13.47)    G= First           First             First                                  US$14.5 million
(US$0.47)          (US$0.159)        (US$0.012)                             72%
CW = First
(US$0.426)
Consultants         QBCS             QBS                  Fixed Budget     LCS            Qualifi-     Single    Individuals
cations      Source
and 3 CVs
Procurement         0.100            0.100                n.a.             n.a.           n.a.          n.a.            >0.050
method thresholds
Prior Review        >0.100           >0.100              n.a.              n.a.           n.a.         <0.050           Only TORs
Expost Review       Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
All other           All the remaining procurement packages will be subject to ex-post review. Each supervision mission will include
procurement         a procurement specialist who would conduct ex-post reviews and provide his/her findings and recommendations
packages            which will be included in supervision reports. Efforts would be made to achieve ex-post review up to 80% of the total procurement
volume.
~~b~~~~~sfro~~~~~~g element of.his/her. TQl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~~               nt         taiin wl;
Brief statement
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by
Paper status: None                                                  negotiations
Yes [El  No  Cl



'__-__ :_.__ '_-__ ._'  Section.3: Trainin. Information and Development on-Procurement.                ____
Estimated date of Project Estimated date of publication of   Indicate if there is  Domestic Preference for  Domestic Preference for Works,
Launch Workshop        General Procurement Notice    procurement subject to    Goods                     if applicable
07/15/98               02/28/98                      mandatory SPN in                                     Yes O   No  0E
Development Business      Yes El  No  0l
Yes 0
__________________     _ _______________________     No    El                     _
Retroactive financing                                                               Advance procurement
Yes 0   No  0D   Explain:                                                         Yes El . No  0  Explain: In order to ensure that
project implementation starts as soon as the credit
,agreement is signed, the"consultants' contracts for
rnanagement and technical support for PIU as well as for
the technical implementation Component B - Mercury
Cleanup - will have to be concluded before credit
signature.
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored through progress reports and supervision
missions. Each supervision mission will include a procurement specialist. She/he will be responsible for updating the procurement plan, and conducting ex-
post reviews. His/her findings will be included in the supervision reports for monitoring their implementation.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: UK Know-How Fund would use its own procurement procedures, and PHRD
would follow Bank procedures.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Name:
Naushad A. Khan, Procurement Specialist, Ext. 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: A project officer in the Resident Mission would be responsible for supervising project
implementation and provide procurement support in which he will be trained.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 34
Azerbaijan                                                      Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Annex 6
Azerbaijan: Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                            Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$780
B. Project Schedule (MM/DD/YY)                        Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)               7
First Bank mission (identification)                   12/10/97                12/10/97
Appraisal mission departure                           05/10/98               05/25/98
Negotiations                                          05/13/98                05/26/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         10/01/98
Prepared by: Committee of Ecology
Preparation assistance: IBRD
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Roger Batstone                                       Principal Environmental Engineer
Peter Pollak                                         Principal Energy Specialist
Gert van Santen                                      Senior Fisheries Specialist
Stephen Lintner                                      Principal Environmental Specialist
Kristalina Georgieva                                 Sector Manager-Environment
Rita Cestti                                          Economist
Catherine Stevens                                    Institutional Development Specialist /
Washington Project Anchor



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 35
Azerbaijan                                                       Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Annex 7
Azerbaijan: Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
A. 1    Implementation Arrangements
A.2    Role of the World Bank
A.3    Project Costs and Financing
A.4    Procurement Arrangements
A.5    Disbursements
A.6    Accounts and Audits
A.7    Project Reporting
A.8    Implementation Schedule
A.9    Monitoring and Evaluation
A.10   Indicators
B. Bank Staff Assessments
B.1    Azerbaijan: Emergency Environmental Improvement Hatchery Component Dam Safety Assessment
February 1998
C. Other
C. 1    Outline Design Sturgeon Hatchery, Azerbaijan. March 1998, Electrowatt Engineering
C.2    The Environmental Impact of Mercury in Sumgait - An Initial Survey of Mercury Levels in Human Hair
and the Marine Environment, April 1998, J. Munthe and G. Rowe
C.3    Environmental Assessment, April 1998, J. Munthe, J. Rodgers, J. Sundberg, K. Hakansson
C.4    Mercury Contaminate Waste and Soil at the Sumgait Industrial Area - Investigations and Proposals for
Remediation and Safe Landfill, pending completion, J. Sundberg, K Hakansson, J. Rogbeck, J. Rogers
C.5    Summary Environmental Assessment, May 1998, State Committee of Ecology
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 36
Azerbaijan                                                      Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Annex 8
Azerbaijan: Urgent Environmental Investment Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Azerbaijan
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 -Jan-98
(In US$ million)
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval              Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997                    Baku Coca Cola            3.50    2.30    0.00      0.00    3.50     0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                      3.50    2.30      0.00    0.00     3.50     0.00    0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Euity   Quasi  Partic
1998                    ATOIL                     5.25     1.31    0.00    0.00
1998                    SEF ARKOBANK               .80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                    SEF AZDEMIRYOL            1.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
1998                    SEF                        .80    0.00     0.00     0.00
AZERIGAZBANK
1998                    SEF RABITABANK             .80    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:             8.65     1.31     0.00    0.00



Status of Bank Group Operations in Azerbaijan
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                       disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                             IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 1
Active Loans
AZ-PE-41261   IDA29780    1998   REP. OF AZERBAIJAN                 SAC                               0.00      70.00            0.00         35.61       35.26       0.00
AZ-PE-40544   IDA29330    1997   AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC                 FARM PRIVATIZATION               0.00      14.70            0.00         12.64        3.55       0.00
AZ-PE-8287    IDA29230      1997   AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC              GAS REHAB                         0.00      20.20            0.00         18.56        1.77      0.00
AZ-PE-8283    IDA27690      1996   REPUB. OF AZERBAIJAN             INSTITUTION BUILDING              0.00      18.00            0.00          9.59        1.61      0.00
AZ-PE-8282    IDA27080    1995   GOV'T OF AZERBAIJAN                PETROLEUM TA                      0.00      20.80            0.00         16.10        7.78      0.00
AZ-PE-8288    IDA27510      1995   GOV'T OF AZERBAIJAN              BAKU WATER SUPPLY                 0.00      61.00            0.00         37.47       18.07      0.00
Total                                                                                                 0.00     204.70            0.00        129.97       68.04      0.00
Active Loans        Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 61.46              61.42              122.88
of which has been repaid:                  0.00               0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                204.70               65.00             269.70
Amount sold                     :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :              129.97               0.00              129.97
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP),
a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements
in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 9 Azerbaijan at a glance                                                                 8128/97
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central    Low-
Azerbalian     Asia  Income       Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         7.6       479    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             480      2,180      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bilions US$)                                 3.6     1,043    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                         1.0       0.3       1.7     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%)                                        1.7       0.5       1.7     per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year availabb since 1989)                             capita                       enroiment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban poputation (% of total population)                56        65       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70        68       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                25        26       69              Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of populaion)                    ..       ..       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     3                 34                      ..
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoolage populaon)     117        97      105                Azerbagan
Male                                                120         97      112               Low-income group
Female                                               115        97       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1985      1996    1996
Economic ratlos^
GDP (bilflons US$)                             ..       ..       3.8       3.7
Gross domestic investmentGDP                    ..      ..      14.1     25.2             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..      ..      26.8     22.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..      ..      -2.5       5.0
Gross national savingslGDP                      ..      ..       0.3       5.6
Current account balance/GDP                     ..      ..    -10.1    -18.2
Interest payments/GDP                           ..      ..       0.2       ..    Savings   '                   Investment
Total debtGDP                                   ..      ..        8.5
Total debt servicelexports                     ..       ..      11.2
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..      .,       7.4
Present value of debt/exports                  ..                                              Indebtedness
1197s8   1986-96     1996      1996  1997-06
(average annual growth)                                                                -     Azerbajan
GDP                                   ..   -15.0    -13.3         1.2     12.1
GNP percapita                               -i59     -141        -1.4     10.0               Lowncomegroup
Exports of goods and services         ..       ..    -7.5       -0.1     20.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1986      1995     1996      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(OA of GDP)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..      23.0      22.9     100
Industry                                       ..       ..      19.3      19.2     so
Manufacturing                                 ..      ..       19.3     17.9       o/
Services                                        .,      ..      57.7     57.9      9s
Private consumption                            ..       ..      92.5     86.0    .100                                   9
General government consumption                  ..      ..      10.0       9.0                    GDI   ---GOP
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..      43.4     42.4
1976-5   1986-96      1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..      -0.7      -0.2     30
Industry                                       ..       ,.    -14.3       -0.2
Manufacturing                                 ..      ..    -14.3       -7.3     20
Services                                        ..      ..    -17.2       2.3      1e
Private consumption                            ..       ..      50.0      -3.8      o
General govemment consumption                   ..      ,.    -70.7       9.5             9*   9Z   93   9I4 s
Gross domestic investment                       ..      ..    -46.7      84.8    -10-
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      20.8     18.7                    Exports    aImports
Gross national product                          ..   -15.0     -13.5      -D.4
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Azerbaijan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1996     1996
Domestic pHces                                                                        Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           2,000
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..    411.7       24.6    1,500
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..        ..    608.7       20.4    n,oo0
Govemment finance                                                                     so         /
(X of GDP)                                                                              0
Current revenue                                 ..        ..       14.3     13.3               91   92   93   94  9s   96
Current budget balance                          ..        ..       -0.3     -2.7               -     GDP def.    a  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..        ..       -4.1     -3.8
TRADE
1978     1985       1995     1996
(miDlons US$)                                                                         Export and Import levels (mill USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..        ..       611       571     1.500
Petroleum products "old"                       ..       ..        83        55
Cotton                                                            110       97
All other goods                                ..       ..        418      428       .
Total imports (cif)                                                955    1,044
FoodSo
Capital goods                                                                         o- A        -    :~i1t~~s 
Export price index (1987=100)                    .                                                l .92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                    ,         ..        .                              Exports    r imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        ,.
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1986       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..        ..       783       757      10
Imports of goods and services                   ..        ..      1,267    1,443
Resource balance                                 ..       ..      -484      -686
Net income                                                           -6      -60      o -      91  l2  L93  Ll          9l
Netcurrenttransfers                             ..        ..       111        80          so  91   sz  93           9    ss
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers              ..       ..      -379      -666
Financing items (net)                           ..        ..       553       631
Changes in net reserves                                           -174        35
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mil l.S)                 ..       ..       263       300
Conversion rate (ocalLUS$)                      ..        ..   3,429.9  4,305.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1985       1995     1996
(mil/ions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..       ..       321
IBRD                                          ..        ..         0        0                       G     8
IDA                                            .         .        30       64                       12    3
Composition of        11995 (mIll. USS)
Total debt service                              ..        ..        10
IBRD                                                               O        O\ 0  0
IDA                                            .        ..         0        0            E
107                       C
Composition of net resource flows                                                                      -            101
Official grants                               ..        ..        58        ..                    /
Official creditors                             .         .       102        ..                  '
Private creditors                             ..                   O 0
Foreign direct investment                     ..        .        110        ..D
Portfolio equity                              ..        ..         0                              71
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..        ..       165        20      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..        ..        30       36       B- IDA    D - Other muitlateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                          ..         ..        0        0       C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                      ..       ..        30       36   1
Interest payments                             ..        ..         0         0
Net transfers                                 ..        ..        30       35
Development Economics                                                                                                   8/28/97
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



45'
RUSSIAN ~ ~~~~~AZRAIA
/1 A' Or                             ~~~~~~~~TO TbiUsi;;;*'t                                                                            RG      N        NV R         NM      N     A
Bala  n                                ~~~~~~~~~To Kayak 
4Z~Baake  ~             FEDERATION
G  ORGIA                    '1)            ~~~~~~~~~Zakatal~Kua
G  oT  Gg >Z<                                                                                                              Khac as SSEECTD CTIE
1~~~~~~~~~akt                                                                                                                        3 AINL AIA
T.T 1w.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~_    AI OD
A    fa  ~~~~~r'~~~A~~'   ~~                                                                                            AIRPORTSurR i
Tagt;4Rcscrv-~-------  RALROAD
2, 7tC.                                                                                                               -----~~~~~~~~---  RIVERS gGub
Kedarek                                                                                                     Nss
' ~ Dashkesano                      Berde               Udiar
ARMENIA                                                       Agdere 0KueiKadg
To Yerevan,~                                        Stepanakert0                  Baylagan                                              Bayraly       Eei?i 
"N,                            A         D~~~~~~~~~~~~jabryl  MtkartKIOMEER
'V~~~~~~~~  --er'A  ckin ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~URIN                                                E-
erour                             Fizuli~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
\<'r&AZER ANAZAKHSTA
This Oaa roducdby~ tehe MaAeinUi fTewrdBs.IUN  EY.C
adruatonuptneosuhbndra.INAASE-IAQISLAMICSE.O IRANLI   O F0RA



BRED 29363
49'4A3                                                 sOvO                                                      5O'15'T
UKRAINE   _                .        KAZAKHSTAN
AZERBAIJAN                                                                                  .                  RUSSIAN,
URGENT ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT PROJECT                                                                              .-
-  $ -APSHERON PENINSULA                                                                                                                                                            SIook 5ea     _._
*Sumgayit
Chlorin"e Pn i0                                                                                                                                                                               ,*,
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRE  -.B ,,C -e a                                                                                                        9  
P  _                                                                                                                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~QSACRPO  A
M  ,Ij              29~~~~~~~ NABDTRN                                                                                                                                             SYRIAN ARAB REP(I '
40 20  I               < F I                           \t      MDAREO                                                                                                                                                                 40'302
.'i I                         MA AZ                          SIGYAPHN                                                                              
RA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUJ
KBYE                                                                                                                  ISLAND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UEA
GEOFoBALY                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRAAH
40 20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40/YAADA  T 20
LOKBATAN
r  _  X 2,    l  ( <      3                                                                -    X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN ROADS\|
0.                                                                    --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER ROADS
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - -    DIRT ROADS 
RAILROADS
BUILT-UP AREAS
N                                                                                 4   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRPORT 
-S                                          N                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS          'F
&  fi.  ! A                                        -1  _ N  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES fINSET)                    >10'
7'                                                                        ,0r  A                                                                                                           ,X1         o  2  4  6  BT10
KILOMETERS
49:45                                                   SD00'                                                     50'15'
JUNE 1 99E



