Report No. PID5949
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Urgent Environmental (@#+)
Investment Project
Region                           ECA
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       AZPE55155
Borrower                         Government of Azerbaijan
Implementing Agency              Committee of Ecology
31 Istiglaliyat Street
370001 Baku,
Phone/fax: (99412) 926863
Environment Category             A
Date This PID Prepared           November 5, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         May 1, 1998
Projected Board Date             June 1, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1. Azerbaijan is wedged between Russia, Georgia, Armenia, Iran and the
Caspian Sea. Its 7.5 million inhabitants are predominantly Turkic-speaking
Azeris. It has a GDP per capita of about US$500. For the past 70 years, the
country has been one of the principle oil producing regions in the former
Soviet Union. Besides oil, there are also large chemical and petrochemical
industries.
2. The origins and composition of the proposed project were the result of
the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) finalized in November 1997. The
NEAP preparation was carried out by an Azeri NEAP team, under the guidance of
a Steering Committee chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Shariffov, and included
representatives from the Committee of Ecology, NGOs, the Academy of Science,
and other state agencies. To address the most urgent actions identified in the
NEAP, the World Bank and the Government of Azerbaijan agreed to prepare an
environmental investment project. A large number of potential projects were
screened using three criteria: (a) critical importance for the environment and
economy of Azerbaijan; (b) urgency of the recommended actions; and (c) size
and complexity, with a preference for relatively small projects and quick
results. Four urgent projects were identified.
Project Objectives
3. The development objectives of the proposed project are: (a) restoring
the capacity of Azerbaijan to produce sturgeon fry by building a new hatchery;
(b) demonstrating mercury clean-up technologies and procedures by cleaning up
one area heavily polluted by mercury; (c) testing and demonstrating onshore
oil field clean-up methodologies by cleaning up one oil field in the Apsheron
peninsula; and (d) strengthening the institutional and regulatory capacity of
the Azeri environmental management system. The project would provide a sound
basis on which a follow-on or supplement environmental project could be based.



Description
4. Sturgeon Hatchery. The objectives of this component are to (a) build a
15 million-fingerlings per year sturgeon hatchery about 20 km upstream from
the mouth of the Kura river; and (b) create a sustainable institutional and
financial basis for future hatchery. The site was selected during the mission
and is the best combination of proximity to the sea and safe elevation above
the potential flood plain of both the river and the Caspian Sea. The site also
has road access and electrical power. The hatchery would be of a proven design
similar to those used in France and the United States and would incorporate
recent advances in sturgeon hatcheries. It will produce three batches a year,
with two of them being at full capacity of 6 million sturgeon fingerlings and
one at half - 3 million fingerlings. Hatchery's operations will be supported
from the national budget. The hatchery will be managed by an autonomous joint
stock company that is 100 percent state-owned.
5. Mercury Cleanup. A chlorine producing plant in Sumgayit has used a
mercury amalgam process since 1958. The original SAMIB chlorine plant ceased
operation in 1981 when a new chlorine plant was opened. While it was
operating, the old chlorine plant used large amounts of mercury, some of which
were lost in the sludge by-product or to evaporation, spills and mishandling.
The objectives of this component are to: (a) cleanup mercury contamination at
the old chlorine plant on a demonstration basis; (b) provide safe and
sustainable disposal of the mercury amalgam process' old sludge, mercury-
contaminated soil, and building debris from the old plant; and (c) perform an
overview of the extent of mercury accumulation in the environment and human
exposure in the Sumgayit area. The component will consist of the following
six sub-components:
(a) Testing of Pilot-Scale Sludge Treatment. This is aimed at finding the
most efficient method for dewatering and/or stabilizing the sludge making it
suitable for transport and disposal.
(b) Developing and Applying a Low-Technology Method for Mercury Recovery.
The soils at the old factory site are contaminated with mercury in the liquid
elemental form which makes mechanical separation using low-technology
feasible. The recovered mercury can be sold yielding a minor financial
contribution to the project cost.
(c) Transporting Wastes. The sludge transfer would be done by covered
trucks along a designated route which avoids inhabited area and dangerous
roads. Other measures for insuring safe transportation of the sludge will be
taken as well.
(d) Constructing a Safe, New Landfill. A hazardous waste landfill meeting
international standards will be designed for final disposal of the excavated
soils, building debris, and sludge.
(e) Designing and Implementing a Monitoring Program for Mercury Emissions
to Air and Water from the Contaminated Site, for the impact of mercury
emissions on the Caspian Sea ecosystems and human exposure in Sumgayit.
(f) Follow-up Assessment. After the completed removal of the contaminated
soil and sludge, an assessment of the need for further actions would be made.
- 2 -



6. Onshore Oil Field Cleanup. For over 140 years, the land around Baku has
been a center for oil production. Today output in many of the old onshore
fields has declined or ceased altogether. This project component has the
objective of mitigating existing pollution in one onshore oil field and
testing cleanup methodologies on a pilot basis. The component will be
implemented by the State Oil Component of Azerbaijan, SOCAR, and will consist
of three sub-components:
(a) A Series of Pilot Projects to Determine the Most Cost-Effective Method
for the Treatment of Oil-Contaminated Sediments and Sludges. Poor operating
practices have resulted in wide-scale oil contamination of the oil fields. The
project would finance the development of pilot tests to determine the
effectiveness, costs, and financial viability of different cleanup
technologies.
(b) Cleanup and Restoration of the Pilot Test Site. The results of the
pilot tests and other cleanup activities will be evaluated to identify the
most effective cleanup technology with the objective is to obtain experience
and cost documentation for large-scale cleanup activities.
(c) Continued Operation of the Implementation Unit in SOCAR. This item
would provide support for the continued operation of the Implementation Unit
for this component established in the State Oil Company (SOCAR).
7. Environmental Management. Effective integration of environmental
concerns into the planning and development of the post-soviet economy of
Azerbaijan requires a series of priority measures for environmental
management. The objective of this component is to: (a) assist the government
of Azerbaijan in developing and implementing measures to strengthen the
overall environmental management system; and (b) developing and implementing a
modern system of environmental regulation and enforcement, emphasizing the
management of hazardous wastes. The component would include two sub-
components:
(a) Institutional Capacity Strengthening, financed by the UK Know-How
Fund. The sub-component will consist of four activities: (i) undertaking a
complete review of the institutional system and structures for environmental
management in the national government; (ii) undertaking a full review of the
State Committee of Ecology; (iii) building the capacity of the State Committee
of Ecology; and (iv) reviewing the legislative and regulatory base and the
standards used for environmental management in Azerbaijan.
(b) Hazardous Waste Management, financed by a PHRD Grant . This concerns
the development of a cradle-to-grave management system for hazardous waste.
Activities will include the development of a classification system and
inventory for hazardous waste, a register for producers of hazardous waste,
the development and implementation of regulations for storage, handling and
transportation of hazardous waste and site design.
8. Project Management and Implementation. This project component will
support the existing PIU with technical assistance, office equipment,
training, procurement assistance, supervision and management support,
operating costs, vehicles, communications facilities, and rehabilitation of
offices.
Financing
-3-



9. Total cost of the project is US$24.5 million equivalent, out of which
US$20 million is an IDA credit that will finance the implementation of
Sturgeon Hatchery, Mercury Cleanup, On shore Oil Field Cleanup, and Project
Management and Implementation components of the project; US$3.1 million is a
Government contribution towards mentioned project components; and US$1.4 is
donor co-financing that will support the Environmental Management component,
consisting of a US$0.6 million UK Know-How Fund grant for Strengthening
Environmental Management Capacity in the country, and a US$0.8 million PHRD
grant for Development of Hazardous Waste Management System.
Implementation
10. The Committee of Ecology would coordinate overall project
implementation. This Committee did an excellent job of leading the development
of the recent National Environmental Action Plan and has experience with Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures. A Project Steering Committee would be
set up under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime Minister Shariffov for project
oversight. The Committee of Ecology Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which
was set up for the NEAP preparation, would coordinate the day-to-day project
activities. The Oil Clean-up Component will be implemented by an existing PIU
in SOCAR, which will report to the PIU at the State Committee of Ecology. The
PIU in SOCAR was originally set up to implement Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project and also has considerable experience in World Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures as well as project accounting and auditing
requirements. The PIU staff would be assisted by component teams that have
been set up during preparation of the project and are preparing bidding
documents prior to project appraisal.
Sustainability of Benefits
11. Sturgeon Hatchery. Sustainability of the hatchery benefits will depend
on: (a) the availability of wild broodstock in the short to medium term; (b)
long-term assurances of sufficient funds for operation and maintenance; and
(c) being independent of the changing budgets and priorities of the state
fishing company and national government.
12. Mercury Cleanup. The sustainability of benefits would depend on having
adequate funds for the regular monitoring of the new sludge landfill, and on a
well designed and constructed landfill that keeps the toxins in the sludge
entirely contained in the landfill. The proposed project has identified a
landfill site of sufficient capacity to operate on a continued commercial
basis, and the contract for the mercury cleanup provides the initial start-up
revenues for commercial operation. Thus, it is intended that the long-term
monitoring and operation of the landfill would be paid for by tipping fees
collected from private enterprises using the facilities. The sustainability of
the benefits from demonstrating mercury cleanup methodologies would depend on
the techniques and procedures being applicable elsewhere. The proposed site
was selected as representative of other hazardous waste sites including
mercury. The cleanup of the contamination site is sustainable so long as other
potential sources of mercury contamination are not repolluting the area.
13. Pollution Prevention and Environmental Mitigation of On-shore Oil
Fields. The oil cleanup activities would create a knowledge base regarding the
actual costs and benefits of cleaning up onshore oil fields in the Apsheron
peninsula which would enable the State Oil Company to develop a long-term
- 4 -



strategic plan for oil cleanup. In short, the results of the pilot testing of
various methodologies would determine the long-term sustainability of the
component. If the cost and benefits of the pilot tests prove valid at other
sites, the benefits from the investment would have a long-term impact. The
selected NGDU is committed to implementing the trial cleanup methods in a good
faith effort, and the site selected is representative of several dozen onshore
oil fields.
14. Environmental Management and Monitoring. The benefits of this
component would be sustainable provided there is an adequate training program
in place for government staff, competitive salaries are offered to attract and
retain quality government employees, and the government provides adequate
support for environmental regulation and enforcement.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
15. Sturgeon hatcheries are unique, and it has been decades since a large
hatchery with a capacity similar to the proposed one has been built. There
are, however, several private and public sturgeon hatcheries in operation
which are relevant to the proposed project. The sturgeon/caviar operations in
France, Iran, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Russia are also relevant to the
proposed project, and an international expert personally familiar with these
hatcheries helped design the proposed hatchery. From these operations, and the
operation of other fish hatcheries, the following lessons have emerged:
(a) Ownership. Government ownership of fish hatcheries has a poor record.
Designs are often inefficient and costly, and operations do not maximize plant
utilization and minimize costs per unit of output. To address the design and
efficiency issues, the new hatchery would incorporate the most advanced and
cost-effective technologies for sturgeon hatcheries. The proposed hatchery
would also be operated by an autonomous agency, with its own financing
sources, created specifically to manage the hatchery and insulated it as much
as possible from changing government budgets and priorities.
(b) Technology. Sturgeon hatchery technology has been improved in western
Europe by using locally bred broodstock. While Azeri hatcheries do not keep
broodstock, the proposed hatchery would develop this capability. Using
broodstock would substantially improve the efficiency of hatchery operations,
as fish can be manipulated to spawn for several months a year, whereas natural
spawning lasts only a few weeks .
(c) Preparation of Investment. Previous experience in Kazakhstan with a
tender process for a sturgeon hatchery showed that there are dangers in only
preparing outline designs and asking contractors to quote for detailed design
and construction on a turnkey basis. Few international contractors have
experience in building fish farms of this nature which makes them
understandably cautious. In the Kazakhstan case, this led to over-inflated
contingencies and unrealistic bids. For this project, in order to define the
scope of the work more closely, detailed designs will be prepared to
internationally acceptable standards. The hatchery would be bid as one
contract, with a single contractor responsible for civil works and equipment
according to the detailed design specifications.
16. Mercury cleanup operations in Europe and elsewhere provide several
lessons which are relevant to the proposed operations. The first is that
mercury waste sludge is often contaminated with highly toxic chlorinated
hydrocarbons, including dioxins. This can pose a risk to those handling the
waste sludge. Thus, measurements would be taken to check the levels of highly
- 5 -



toxic compounds, and if these exceed safe levels, the waste processing workers
would be given proper training and equipment for the handling of the waste
sludge to prevent adverse exposure to the workers and further environmental
contamination. Second, the construction of a hazardous mercury waste landfill
requires careful control and monitoring while it is being built. The geo-
technical details such as the clay content of the soil in the entire disposal
area must be carefully checked on a regular basis during construction. The
proposed project would incorporate independent monitoring, supervision and
testing of geo-technical details during construction of the new landfill.
Third, the landfill should be sited in a low-risk area. The site selected for
the new landfill has no hydrological link with the Baku or Sumgayit
watersheds, has very low-permeability clay soil, and is away from any
settlements. Fourth, proper accounting and identification of hazardous
material loads are required. This is to ensure all wastes are transported to
the landfill site as planned. The proposed project would include an accounting
and identification system for transportation of the waste sludge to the
landfill.
17. Pollution Prevention and Environmental Mitigation of On-Shore Oil
Fields benefited from lessons learned during the emergency oil spill
remediation project in the Komi region of Russia. In the Komi project, the gas
and oil production operator (NGDU in Russian) which operated the pipeline was
mostly interested in replacement of the pipeline to improve oil transportation
and relatively uninterested in spending funds on the cleanup of oil spills
accumulated from long-term poor operating practices. The overall project
included a significant infrastructure component to replace the section of
pipeline which was the source of sizable and chronic leaks. Thus, the NGDU was
willing to take on the oil spill cleanup component only as part of the overall
project. Furthermore, the active participation of the NGDU in the oil spill
cleanup component contributed to the success of the project in terms of
technology transfer and acquisition of specialized equipment, so that the NGDU
could continue to conduct oil spill cleanup once the contractor completed the
original cleanup program. During the development of the project in Azerbaijan,
NGDUs were selected that clearly indicated a willingness to participate in the
project.
18. The Environmental Management and Monitoring component included a
review of lessons learned from related Bank-financed projects including the
Implementation Completion Report for the Poland Environment Management Project
prepared in 1997; implementation reports from the Russian Environment
Management Project and the environmental management components of projects in
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania; as well as the recently prepared draft paper by
ENV entitled Environmental Capacity Building: A Review of the World Bank's
Portfolio. The experience from these projects emphasize the need to: (a) have
clear objectives and be well focused; (b) support participation by a diversity
of stakeholders; (c) have flexible designs which allow for adjustments during
implementation; and (d) emphasize the strengthening of the environmental
management system as a whole. The review also identified the need for
intensive supervision by Bank staff during the initial 12-18 months of project
implementation and the importance of well-managed procurement and disbursement
during implementation.
Poverty Category
19. Not Applicable.
-6-



Environmental Aspects
20. Negative environmental impacts associated with the project could be
significant if not properly controlled. The dredging of the Kura river could
have negative environmental impacts from sediment disturbances and would thus
undergo a full environmental assessment. The mercury cleanup component would
have a large positive environmental impact by eliminating a known source of
mercury contamination for local residents and the nearby Caspian Sea. Risks at
the site selected for the new sludge landfill have been minimized by assuring
that there is no hydrological link with the Baku or Sumgayit watersheds, the
area has very low-permeability clay soil, and it is away from any settlements.
Yet the cleanup and transportation of the mercury-rich sludge could cause
unforeseen health impacts on workers and area inhabitants, and the new sludge
landfill would create environmental impacts during excavation and operation.
Thus, this component would also have a full environmental assessment. The oil
pollution and mitigation component would have a sizable positive environmental
impact by eliminating the venting of co-produced natural gas from several on-
shore oil fields. Yet because of the nature of pilot projects to treat oil-
contaminated sediments and sludges, and because of the need for baseline
environmental data, a full environmental assessment would be completed for
this component as well. The three environmental assessments would be
aggregated into a single report that would be submitted to the Bank's Board of
Directors prior to project appraisal as per the requirements for category A
projects.
Program Objective Categories
21. Environmentally Sustainable Development.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Konrad Von Ritter (ECSSD)
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-0477
Fax No.:         (202) 477-3285
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 22, 1999.
AZERBAIJAN URGENT ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
Background
1.      The origins and composition of the proposed project were the result of
the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) finalized in November 1997. The
- 7 -



NEAP preparation was carried out by an Azeri NEAP team, under the guidance of
a Steering Committee chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Shariffov, and included
representatives from the Committee of Ecology, NGOs, the Academy of Science,
and other state agencies. To address the most urgent actions identified in the
NEAP, the World Bank and the Government of Azerbaijan agreed to prepare an
environmental investment project. A large number of potential projects were
screened using three criteria: (a) critical importance for the environment and
economy of Azerbaijan; (b) urgency of the recommended actions; and (c) size
and complexity, with a preference for relatively small projects and quick
results. Four urgent projects were identified.
2. Sturgeon Hatchery. Sturgeon are some of the most valuable fish in the
world and the Caspian Sea has long been home to the largest stocks of caviar-
producing sturgeon. Caspian caviar comprises 90 percent of world production
and has historically been a major earner of foreign exchange for Azerbaijan.
The sturgeon catch, however, peaked in the 1930s and has been in decline
since. During the past two decades, the drop has accelerated. The annual
reported catch declined from 25,000 tons during the 1980s to an estimated
1,000 tons in 1997, a 96 percent drop. This drop in stocks was the result of
inadequate resource management, unsustainable legal and illegal sturgeon
fishing, and a decline in output of sturgeon hatcheries. Most of Azerbaijan's
sturgeon come from the Kura river about 120 km south of Baku. During the
1950s, three sturgeon hatcheries were built along the Kura in Azerbaijan with
a combined capacity of 12 million fry a year. Lack of funds, deteriorating
facilities, and the rising waters of the Caspian Sea caused Azeri output of
sturgeon fry to drop. Sturgeon catch quotas in the Caspian are linked to the
number of fry a state produces. If Azerbaijan's fry production is not
improved, the country risks losing its share of the Caspian sturgeon catch.
The proposed project would build a 15-million fry per year sturgeon hatchery.
3. Pollution Prevention and Environmental Mitigation of On-Shore Oil
Fields. For over 140 years, the land around Baku has been a center for oil
production. Oil producers, however, paid little attention to the extensive
environmental impacts. Over 10,000 hectares of land around Baku are now
heavily polluted and poses a serious health hazard to the people living nearby
due to problems with ground and surface water pollution, contaminated
sediments, radiation, improper solid waste disposal, human encroachment, and
poor air quality. Output in many of these old on-shore fields has declined or
ceased altogether. SOCAR, the national oil company, is seeking support from
international oil companies for the rehabilitation of these fields, many of
which have sizable oil reserves left. Yet major oil companies have been
reluctant to become involved because of concerns about the environmental
conditions of these fields and potential liabilities. The government plans to
cleanup these fields, but to avoid further problems, oil companies operating
in these on-shore fields would have to implement changes in the current
operating practices. The proposed project would finance, in one or two fields,
the replacement of facilities that contribute significantly to the pollution
of these fields and affect the health of the people working and living there
as well as test several options for the environmental cleanup of these fields.
In addition to resolving some major environmental issues in one or two oil
fields, the proposed project would also test cleanup options through a series
of pilot projects to determine the most cost-effective method for the
treatment of oil-contaminated sediments and sludges. Co-produced natural gas
released to the atmosphere is a serious health hazard to residents of Baku
because it contains toxic gases such as hydrogen sulfides and PAHs. Priority
investments in gas recovery would also be included in the project.
Furthermore, a manual detailing best environmental practices for oil
- 8 -



exploration and production in the on-shore fields and implementation costs
would be created for the use of the environmental regulatory agency and the
oil industry
4. Mercury Cleanup. The town of Sumgayit is about 30 km west of Baku and
is one of the most industrialized cities in the former Soviet Union with a
number of large-scale chemical and petrochemical plants. Sumgayit's industrial
zone borders the Caspian Sea, and a large section of the nearby shoreline is
severely polluted. The local media call the off-shore waters of this area the
"Dead Zone." Chlorine gas and caustic soda have been produced in Sumgayit
using a mercury amalgam process since 1958. The original SAMIB chlorine plant
ceased operation in 1981 when a new chlorine plant was opened. While it was
operating, the old chlorine plant used large amounts of mercury, some of which
were lost in the sludge by-product or to evaporation, spills and mishandling.
There is an estimated 200,000 tons of mercury-rich waste sludge that have been
inadequately dumped at the site as well as 100,000 tons of mercury-
contaminated soil and building debris from the old plant. These wastes pose a
likely risk for ground water contamination, wind-borne contamination, and
leakage into the Caspian Sea.
5. Mercury is very poisonous to the human nervous system, has the ability
to bio-magnify as organic mercury through the food chain, and is often found
in high concentrations in fish. Thus, mercury waste in the area of Sumgayit is
a threat to the sturgeon and caviar markets as well as to the health of the
population of Sumgayit. The old chlorine plant was identified as a potential
source of mercury contamination in the Sumgayit area and a cleanup component
was initiated in order to avoid further ecological damage. The proposed
project would cleanup the site and deposit the waste in a specifically
constructed landfill in a cost-effective and environmentally acceptable
manner.
6. Environmental Management and Monitoring. Azerbaijan inherited from the
former Soviet Union a relatively developed system of environmental laws,
regulations and institutions. Enforcement, however, is weak and the
environmental management system is ill equipped to deal with the country's
pollution problems, especially given the requirements of a market economy and
oil-led economic growth. Institutional improvements are urgently needed to
prevent further deterioration of environmental conditions and prepare
Azerbaijan for the environmental responsibilities of a modern state. The
proposed project would assist the government to implement structural changes
and would significantly strengthen the enforcement of environmental laws and
regulations by improving the capacity for sustainable environmental
management.
Project Scope
7. The project scope would entail four components: (a) a sturgeon
hatchery; (b) pollution prevention and environmental mitigation of on-shore
oil fields; (c) mercury cleanup; and (d) institutional strengthening. These
components are detailed in the Project Information Document above.
Environmental Issues
8. Environmental issues associated with the project include: (a) the
dredging of the Kura river; (b) the site selected for the new mercury sludge
landfill; (c) health impacts on mercury sludge cleanup workers and area
inhabitants; (d) proper construction of the new mercury sludge landfill; (e)
assurance that hazardous wastes loads are transported to the landfill; (f)
possible negative impacts of the pilot projects to treat oil-contaminated
sediments and sludges.
Environmental Mitigation
9. The dredging of the Kura would be subject to a full environmental
-9-



assessment. It would include a detailed analysis of the soil and river bottom
to determine if there are any hazardous deposits that would be disturbed by
the dredging. It would also include an analysis of the most environmentally
benign location for disposing of the dredging spoils. The proposed channel
would not significantly change the water balance of the delta area because the
new channel will largely replace the existing shipping channel and the flow
through the old channel would gradually decrease as it silts up due to
inactivity and no maintenance dredging. Dredging would not be carried out
during the sturgeon spawning season.
10. Site selection of the new mercury sludge landfill is based on a geo-
technical study of several potential sites. The site selected has is in an
isolated water shed, and there is no hydrological link with the Baku or
Sumgayit watersheds. The site has very low-permeability clay soil and is away
from any settlements.
11. Mercury waste sludge is often contaminated with highly toxic
chlorinated hydrocarbons, including dioxins. This can pose a risk to those
handling the waste sludge. Thus, measurements would be taken to check the
levels of highly toxic compounds, and if detected, the waste processing
workers would be given proper training and equipment for the handling of the
waste sludge to prevent adverse exposure to the workers and further
environmental contamination.
12. The construction of a hazardous mercury waste landfill requires
careful control and monitoring while it is being built. Details such as the
clay content of the soil in the entire disposal area must be carefully checked
on a regular basis during construction. The proposed project would, therefore,
incorporate independent monitoring, supervision and testing of geo-technical
details during construction of the new landfill. To ensure all wastes are
transported to the landfill site as planned, the proposed project would also
include an accounting and identification system for transportation of the
waste sludge to the landfill. Surveys of baseline environmental conditions on
land, in the sea, and in neighboring residential areas would also be carried
out. These surveys would measure mercury concentrations before, during and
after the cleanup of the mercury sludge.
13. Because there is limited knowledge of the extent and type of
environmental hazards in specific on-shore oil fields (radioactive waste,
toxins in the sludge, hydrological links, etc.), there is a potential for the
pilot oil spill cleanup activities to create adverse environmental impacts.
Before starting the pilot mitigation measures in the selected oil fields, a
full environmental assessment would be undertaken to identify all potential
hazards for the proposed operations, and operations would be adjusted to
eliminate or control these hazards.
14. The environmental assessments mentioned above combined into a single
project Environmental Assessment was presented to the Bank's Board of
Directors.
- 10 -



