Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3107 AZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Urgent Environmental Investment Project)
between
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 7, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3107 AZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1998, between AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the United Kingdom Know How Fund 
(UK Know How Fund) a grant (UK Know How Grant) in an amount of three hundred fifty 
thousand pounds sterling (£350,000) to assist in financing Part D of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UK Know How Fund Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the UK Know How Fund;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Japan a grant 
(PHRD Grant) in an amount of eight hundred thousand Dollars (US$800,000) to assist in 
the financing of Part D of the Project on the terms and conditions to be set forth in 
a letter of agreement (the PHRD Grant Letter of Agreement) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Association, the administrator of PHRD Grant funds for the 
Government of Japan; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:  
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Azerbalig" means the Borrower’s State Concern "Azerbalig," or any 
successor thereto;
(b)
"CIU" means the implementation unit established within the Department of 
Foreign Investments of SOCAR, pursuant to Order No. 62 issued by the SOCAR on April 
19, 1995, or any successor thereto;
(c)
"Committee of Ecology" means the Borrower’s State Committee of Ecology, 
or any successor thereto;
(d)
"EMP" means the environmental mitigation plan for the Project, adopted by 
the Committee of Ecology on May 28, 1998, as the same may be amended from time to 
time;
(e)
"Part A Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Sturgeon Hatchery JSC pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Part A Implementation Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
(f)
"Part C Implementation Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Borrower and SOCAR related to the implementation of Part C of the Project, and 
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
(g)
"PIU" means the project implementation unit established within the 
Committee of Ecology pursuant to Project Steering Committee Protocol No. 09/7-63, 
issued on November 8, 1996, and referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, or any 
Page  3
successor thereto;
(h) 
"Project Steering Committee" means the inter-agency committee established 
pursuant to Government of Azerbaijan Resolution No. 169, issued on October 10, 1996, 
whose members include representatives of the Borrower’s Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry 
of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Committee of Ecology, SOCAR, Azerbalig and the 
Borrower’s Committee of Geology, and representatives of the Naftchala and Sumgait 
local administrations, or any successor thereto;
(i)
"SOCAR" means the State Oil Company of the Republic of Azerbaijan, 
established by Presidential Decree No. 200, issued on September 13, 1992, as amended, 
or any successor thereto;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(k)
"Sturgeon Hatchery JSC" means the joint stock company to be established,  
registered, and owned and operated by the Borrower in accordance with the Borrower’s 
applicable laws and regulations, and referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (i) of this 
Agreement, or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works, services and incremental operating costs required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
Page  4
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2008, and ending March 15, 
2033.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2018, 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall, without 
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
carry out Parts A.1, A.2, B, D, and E of the Project through the Project Steering 
Committee and Committee of Ecology, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and 
technical practices, as well as in conformity with the provisions of the EMP, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under this Agreement, cause the Sturgeon Hatchery JSC to carry out 
Page  5
Part A.3 of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical 
practices, shall take and cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
the Sturgeon Hatchery JSC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(c)
The Borrower shall, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under this Agreement, cause the SOCAR to carry out Part C of the 
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, as 
well as in conformity with the provisions of the EMP, shall take and cause to be taken 
all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the SOCAR to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance. 
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of Part A of the Project, and except as the 
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement:
(i)
duly establish and register, by December 31, 1998, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, a joint stock company (the Sturgeon 
Hatchery JSC), whose primary task shall be to operate and manage 
the hatchery to be constructed and financed under Part A.1 of this 
Project in an environmentally sustainable and financially sound 
manner;
(ii)
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Sturgeon Hatchery JSC (the Part A Implementation 
Agreement), and on terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association, assign to the Sturgeon Hatchery JSC 
the responsibility to operate and manage the hatchery to be 
constructed and financed under Part A.1 of this Project in an 
environmentally sustainable and financially sound manner; and
(iii)
exercise its rights under the Part A Implementation Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Part A 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b)
For the purposes of Part C of the Project, and except as the Borrower and 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement:
(i)
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the SOCAR (the Part C Implementation Agreement), and 
on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, assign to the SOCAR, and in particular the CIU, the 
responsibility to implement Part C of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 5 of the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(ii)
exercise its rights under the Part C Implementation Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Part C 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, maintain within 
the Committee of Ecology a project implementation unit (PIU), and shall ensure that 
the PIU is staffed at all times by personnel with qualifications and under terms of 
reference, and functions at all time in accordance with procedures necessary and 
Page  6
appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, and satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of  Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall undertake all measures necessary and 
appropriate to ensure that by December 31, 1998, the Borrower has full legal title to 
and ownership of land required for Parts A.1 and B of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall undertake all necessary and appropriate 
measures, satisfactory to the Association, to ensure that by July 31, 1999, the 
chlorine gas emissions from the Surface Active Substances plant of the Borrower that 
affect or threaten to affect the safety and health of workers implementing Part B of 
the Project have ceased, and thereby permit a complete and safe removal of the mercury 
contaminated material from its current storage area at the plant site, and shall 
furnish to the Association satisfactory evidence confirming the above undertakings.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four (4) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  7
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The UK Know How Fund Grant Agreement shall have failed to become 
effective by December 31, 1998, and the PHRD Grant Letter of Agreement shall have 
failed to become effective by December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Association 
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds 
for Part D of the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph (b), the right of 
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the UK Know How Fund 
Grant or of the PHRD Grant made to the Borrower for the financing 
of Part D of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the UK 
Know How Fund Grant Agreement or of the PHRD Grant Letter of 
Agreement, providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph (b) shall not apply if: (A) the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that 
such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for Part D of the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Borrower has appointed independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, with experience and qualifications, and under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
Page  8
Section 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
6 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku 370006
Azerbaijan Republic
Telex:
142116 BNKSL
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Baku, Azerbaijan Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ A. Sharifov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ T. Yaprak
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  9
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works:
(a) for Part A.1 of
   2,190,000)
the Project
      )
      )
(b) for Part B of
   2,450,000)
100%
the Project
      )
      )
(c) for Part C of
   3,220,000)
the Project
      )
(2)
Consultants'
services and
training:
(a) for Part A of
     720,000)
the Project
      )
      )
(b) for Part B of
   2,090,000)
100%
the Project
      )
      )
(c) for Part C of
     150,000)
the Project
      )
      )
(d) for Part E of
     460,000)
the Project
      )
(3)
Goods:
(a) for Part A.1 of
   1,120,000)
the Project
      )
100% of foreign
      )
expenditures,
(b) for Part B of
   1,040,000)
100% of foreign
the Project
      )
expenditures (ex-
      )
factory cost) and
(c) for Part C of
      20,000)
85% of local
the Project
      )
expenditures for
      )
other items
(d) for Part E of
     100,000)
procured locally
the Project
      )
(4)
Operating Costs
     310,000
(5)
Unallocated
   1,030,000
TOTAL
  14,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs, training, and accounting 
and auditing costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
Page  10
(a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)  payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) 
and (3) (a), unless the Borrower has established and registered the Sturgeon Hatchery 
JSC in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
(c)  payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) 
and (3) (b), unless evidence satisfactory to the Association has been furnished 
establishing that the chlorine gas emissions from the Surface Active Substances plant 
of the Borrower have ceased, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement; and
(d)  payments made for expenditures in respect of Categories (1) (c), (2) (c) 
and (3) (c), unless the Borrower has entered into the Part C Implementation Agreement 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each, works under contracts costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent each, and services under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) improve the 
Borrower’s capacity to produce sturgeon fingerlings; (b) safely remove and dispose of 
mercury contaminated soil, building debris and other material stored in an area of the 
Abseron peninsula located near the Borrower’s town of Sumgait, and assess the extent 
of mercury accumulation in the area; (c) test on shore oil clean up methodologies and 
practices on a pilot basis and mitigate existing pollution in an on shore oil field 
within fifty kilometers of the Borrower’s capital city of Baku; and (d) strengthen the 
Borrower’s institutional and regulatory capacity in the area of environmental 
management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Sturgeon Hatchery
1.
Construction of a sturgeon hatchery located on the Kura river, through the 
provision of goods and works under a supply and installation contract, and services.
2.
Establishment of an entity with legal, financial, and institutional capacity to 
operate the sturgeon hatchery in an environmentally sustainable and financially sound 
manner, through the provision of services.
3.
Operation and management of the sturgeon hatchery referred to under paragraph 1 
above by the entity referred to in paragraph 2 above, in an environmentally 
sustainable and financially sound manner, through the provision of funds and services.
Part B: 
Mercury Cleanup and Decontamination
1.
Excavation and processing of mercury contaminated soil, sludge, building debris, 
and other materials, through the provision of goods, works, and services.
2.
Construction of a new landfill for mercury contaminated materials, through the 
provision of goods, works, and services.
3.
Excavation, transportation and storage in the new landfill of mercury 
Page  11
contaminated material, through the provision of goods, works, and services.
4.
Environmental surveying of marine environment, soils, and human exposure to 
mercury contamination around the Sumgait industrial area, through the provision of 
goods and services.
Part C:
Oil Field Environmental Mitigation
1.
Undertaking a series of pilot projects designed to determine the most effective 
and efficient method for the treatment of oil contaminated land, through the provision 
of works, goods and services.
2.
Clean up and restoration of oil contaminated land at the pilot test site through 
the provision of works, goods and services.
3.
Operational and institutional support of the SOCAR’s implementation capability 
with respect to Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project through the provision of services and 
goods for CIU.
Part D:
Environmental Management
Review and improvement of the Borrower’s environmental management capacity, 
strengthening of the Committee of Ecology’s institutional capacity, and strengthening 
of the Borrower’s environmental legislative and regulatory framework, with particular 
emphasis on the management of hazardous waste, through the provision of services, 
training and goods.
Part E:
Project Management and Implementation
1.
Strengthening the Borrower’s Project implementation and management capability,  
through the provision of services, training, goods, and incremental operating expenses 
of the PIU.
2.
Preparation of the accounts and financial statements referred to in Article IV 
of this Agreement and audit of such accounts and financial statements, through the 
provision of accounting and auditing services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A, (the Guidelines); and (b) the  provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  12
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for the construction of the sturgeon hatchery under Part A.1 of the 
Project, to be procured under a supply and installation contract estimated to cost 
$5,070,600 equivalent, shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (tanks) estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, and 
works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $270,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $91,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the supply and installation contract for the construction 
of the sturgeon hatchery under Part A.1 of the Project, each contract for goods and 
works procured under international competitive bidding and the first contract procured 
under national competitive bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract procured under the international and 
Page  13
national shopping procedures,  the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of the first contract under the 
international and national shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; and
(ii)  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A, (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for the operation of the sturgeon hatchery under Part A of the Project 
which are estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts A, B and C of the Project for tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  14
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference, and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  All terms of reference for 
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$50,000 shall also be subject to the Association’s prior review.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 15, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
2.
The Borrower shall carry out the EMP in accordance with the action plan 
contained therein and in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the EMP.  
By March 31, 1999, the Borrower shall engage a consultant, with experience and under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, who shall, until the completion of 
the Project, assist the Borrower in the implementation, monitoring of the EMP, and in 
the preparation of reports related to or required under the EMP.
3.
The Project Steering Committee shall be responsible for the overall Project 
Page  15
management and strategic direction, and shall specifically be responsible for the 
coordination of inter-ministerial issues related to the Project and its 
implementation.
4.
The Committee of Ecology shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts A, 
B, D and E of the Project, including procurement and disbursement-related functions, 
accounting, monitoring and reporting.  The PIU shall be assisted by a core team of 
experienced and qualified consultants, satisfactory to the Association, and shall be 
responsible for day-to-day implementation of Parts A, B, D and E of the Project, 
including technical aspects of procurement, accounting, financial management and 
disbursement-related activities, reporting, and monitoring and evaluation, liaison 
with the Borrower’s agencies, the Project Steering Committee, the Association, and 
other parties and donor agencies.
5.
The SOCAR, and through the SOCAR, the CIU, shall be responsible for the 
implementation of Part C of the Project, including procurement and 
disbursement-related  functions, accounting, financial management and 
disbursement-related activities, reporting, and monitoring and evaluation, liaison 
with the Borrower’s agencies, the Project Steering Committee, the Association, and 
other parties.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
Page  16
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
Page  17
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
