E-237
Republic of Azerbaijan
URGENT ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
(AZ-PE-55155)
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
AUGUST 10, 1998
State Committee of Ecology
Republic of Azerbaijan



ii
AZERBAIJAN
URGENT ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
TABLE OF CONTEXTS
A. F'reface .1............... 
B. Policy, Legal  and Administ rative Framework ................................                           .l
Ecology Law  of the Azerbaijan Republic .................................2
C. Project Description ...............................                                                                                               2
D. Blaseline Data - Present Environmental State ................................8
Physical Environment ................................8
Biological Environment ...............................                                                                                      10
Socio-Economic Environment ...............................                                                                                  15
E. Environmental Impact ...............................                                                                                             15
Mercury Recovery.16................................
Sludge Treatment Operation .........................................................                                                        17
Transport of Sludge and Contaminated Soils to Safe Disposal Site ................................................. 18
Construction of Hazardous Waste Landfill .........................................................                                         19
F. Analysis of Alternatives .........................................................                                                               20
Remediation of the Old Chlorine Plant Site .........................................................                                       20
Sludge Basins .........................................................                                                                    22
Landfill Site Selection .........................................................                                                           23
Landfill Cover Construction .........................................................                                                      23
Selection of Traffic Route to Landfill .........................................................                                           24
G. Mitigation Plan .........................................................                                                                        24
Sludge Treatment .........................................................                                                                  24
Mercwy Recovery ..........                                                                                                                  25
Excavation and Loading of Contamninated Material ..................................                                                         25
Transport and Unloading ..................................                                                                                  26
Landfill ..............26
H. Monitoring Plan ...........                                                                                                                       27
I. Environmrental Management and Training ..........................................................  28
Environmental Monitoring Training .........................................................                                                 28
Workers' Safety .........................................................                                                                  28
Hazardous Waste Landfill Management .........................................................                                               29
J. 'onsultation and Reviews .........................................................                                                          .29
K. Appendices
Appendix 1. List of Environmental Assessment Preparers and Organizations ................................. 30
Appendix 2. Record of the Consultation Meeting .........................................................                                    31
Appendix 3. Cost Estimate and Time Plan for the Proposed Project ................................................ 39
Appendix 4. Map of Mercury Cleanup Site and Landfill .........................................................                               40
Thc following supporting documents are available upon request: An Initial Survey of Mercury Levels in Human
Hair and the Marine Environmnent; Mercury Contaminate Waste and Soil at the Surmgait Industrial Area -
Invesa tions and Proposals for Remediaton and Safe Landfill; and separate envkimmental reviews of the strgeon
hatcherand oil cleanup components.



AZERBAIJAN
URGENT ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
A. Preface
1. This environmental assessment was prepared for the State Committee on Ecology of the
Republic of Azerbaijan by a team of foreign and local consultants. Foreign participants included
John Munthe (Lead Scientist), Swedish Environmental Research Institute (IVL); Jan Sundberg,
Karsten Hakansson, Jan Rogbeck and Bertil Nord, the Swedish Geotechnical Institute (SGI);
Gilbert T. Rowe and William J. Rogers, Texas A&M University. Azeri participants included the
State Committee on Geology and the Institute of Prophylactic Medicine.
B. Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
2. To address the most urgent actions identified in the Azeri National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP), the World Bank and the Government of Azerbaijan agreed to prepare an
environmental investment project. A large number of potential projects were screened using three
criiteria: (a) critical importance for the environment -and economy of Azerbaijan; (b) urgency of
the recommended actions; and (c) size and complexity, with a preference for relatively small
projects of a demonstrative or pilot nature. From the list of potential projects, four were selected.
Due to the urgent environmental situation in Azerbaijan, the proposed project was prepared,
appraised and negotiated in less than six months.
3. The objectives of the proposed project are: (a) restoring the capacity of Azerbaijan to produce
sturgeon fingerlings by building a new hatchery; (b) demonstrating mercury cleanup
technologies and procedures by cleaning up one area heavily polluted by mercury; (c) testing and
demonstrating onshore oil field cleanup methodologies by cleaning up one oil field in the
Abseron peninsula; and (d) improving the institutional and regulatory capacity of the Azeri
environmental management system. The project would provide a sound basis on which a follow-
on or supplemental environmental project could be based.
4. The project would consist of five components '(a) a IS5-million fingerling sturgeon hatchery;
(b) demonstration mercury cleanup; (c) pilot onshore oil cleanup activities; (d) strengthening
environmental management capacity; and (e) project management and supervision support. The
proposed project has neither resettlement nor adverse impacts on culural heritage.
5. The project has been assigned to environmental category A because of the mercury cleanup
component. Therefore, a full environmental assessment has been done, and as per World Bank
procedures given in OD 4.01, the Environmental Assessment was be distributed to the Bank's
Board of Directors prior to the Appraisal mission.
6. This Environmental Assessment (EA) covers in detail the mercury cleanup component of the
Azerbaijan Urgent Environmental Investment Project which would be financed by a US$20
million IDA credit. This project is scheduled for Board presentation in June 1998. The cost of the
mercury cleanup component would be approximately US$8.1 million. There are no cofinanciers
for this component of the project. The strengthening of institutional capacity would be
cofinanced by the UK Know How Fund and a-Japanese PHRD grant



-2-
Ecology Law of the Azerbaijan Republic
7. The State policy of the Azerbaijan Republic for environmental monitoring and natural
resources rational use is based on the following laws enforced in the Azerbaijan Republic after
1991, when Azerbaijan achieved independence:
* Law No. 80 on Nature Protection and Use, dated 25 February 1992
*  Decree N176 of the President of the Azerbaijan Republic
* Provision on State Ecology Committee and Natural Resources Use, dated 7 September 1992
* State Ecology and Natural Resources Use Committee within the frame of UNDP developed
and put in force: Environment Assessment Provision in the Azerbaijan Republic (1996)
* Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Azerbaijan Republic: Responsibility for
Environmental Pollution, dated 3 March 1992
* Resolution N130 of the Milli Mejlis of the Azerbaijan Republic (Parliament) on the State
Environment Committee, dated 21 May 1992
* Resolution N319 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Azerbaijan Republic: Norms and Limits
Approval and Illegal Development Damage Compensation, dated 8 July 1992
8. The following normative acts (regulations) are relevant to the issues of environmental
protection:
* Land Code ofthe Azerbaijan Republic (1991)
* Penalty calculation methods on over-limit discharges of toxic matters into the atmosphere, in
compliance with assessment procedures (1993)
* Manual for gas and dust-sucking pumps passport registration procedures (1993)
3 Recommendations on structure and composition of PDV projects and industrial discharges
(1994)
*  Penalty assessment methods on atmosphere pollution caused by fire (1994)
* Normative documents on State Ecology Expertise
* Atmosphere Protection Code
* Approval of the Law of the Azerbaijan Republic Radiological Safety of the Population
* Complex Environmental Protection Plan in the Azerbaijan Republic for the period up to 2010
(1987)
9. Local environmental permits and clearances are only granted in Azerbaijan after the detailed
design of the project has been completed and reviewed. Preliminary approval to proceed with the
detailed design of the project has been given by the State Committee of Ecology.
C. Project Description
10. Sturgeon Hatchery. This component would build a 1S-million fingerling sturgeon hatchery
near the town of Neftchala on vacant land owned by the municipal govermment. Project funds



-3-
would be used to prepare the site, purchase the equipment, and install the components on a turn-
key basis. The site was selected as the best combination of proximity to the sea and safe
elevation above the potential flood plain of both the Kura river and the Caspian Sea. The site also
has road access and electrical power. The hatchery would be of a proven design similar to those
used in France and the United States and, -'wuld incorporate recent advances in sturgeon
hatcheries.
11. The main environmental issues associated with the sturgeon hatchery environmental issues
include: (a) extraction by the hatchery of about 600 liters of water per second during intermittent
petiods of operation (less than I percent of the Kura's average flow with over 95% of the water
returmed to the river); (b) collection and disposal of hatchery wastes (mainly offal from the feed
milll and dead fish); and (c) cross-breeding of sturgeon species; and (d) dust from the hatchery's
feedmill.
12. To mitigate these impacts, the hatchery component would include: (a) wastewater treatment
for all the hatchery (evaluations conducted as part of the environmental review indicate that the
nitrogen load from these waste waters would not have a significant impact on aquatic life in the
river due to its small amount and dispersion in the channel); (b) collection of wastes in concrete
birns and burning on a regular basis to avoid disposal of these materials into the river or other
water courses; (c) use of separate tanks to segregate various species of breeding stock and hand-
fertilization of roe from known donor species; and .(d) dust control measures and worker training
to minimize expose. Details on the environmnental impacts are in the environmental review for
the sturgeon hatchery.
13. Onshore Oil Cleanup. This component would finance two sub-components: (a) the
development of pilot tests to determine the effectiveness, costs, and financial viability of
different onshore oil cleanup technologies, including sediment/sludge mechanical washing,
thermal treatment, and land farming/bio-remediation; and b) cleanup and restoration of an  11-ha
test site using the technology selected by the pilot tests. This component was subject to an
environmental review by the State Oil Company. with the assistance of international oil cleanup
consultants. The review concluded that cleanup would bave long-term positive benefits and the
potential negative impacts of the cleanup are not significant. However, the quantities and
qualities of the oil sludge are no well defined, and firther information on the nature of the oil
contamination would be determined during detailed project design and the potential
environmental impacts of the component reassessed.
14. Environmental issues associated with the onshore oil cleanup include: (a) worker safety in
the oil field cleanup; (b) disposal of oil field wastes; (c) handling of recovered oil; and (d)
increased dust from oil field cleanup operations.
15. To mitigate these impacts the project would include: (a) providing training and equipment
for oil field cleanup workers as part of a work safety plan; (b) testing and categorizing of oil field
wastes by contaminants and severity for disposal in appropriate facilities; (c) adequate on-site
storage facilities for recovered waste; and (d) using anti-dusting measures such as watering in the
oil field. Details on the environmental impacts are in the environmental review done by the State
Oiil Company (SOCAR).



4-
16. Strengthening Environmental Management. This component would support the
Government of Azerbaijan, and the State Conmnittee for Ecology, in addressing high-priority
environmental management issues identified during the NEAP process. The component would
include two sub-components: an environmenai management subcomponent which would
undertaking a complete review of the institutional`system and structures for environmental
management in the national government; and a hazardous waste management subcomponent
which would develop the framework for a cradle-to-grave management system for hazardous
waste. Both subcomponents would be developed in close cooperation with local experts and
would support activities developed under the mercury cleanup component. There are no
environmental issues associated with this component.
17. Project Management and Supervision Support. This component would support the
existing PIU with technical assistance, office equipment, training, procurement assistance,
supervision and management support, operating costs, vehicles, communications facilities, and
rehabilitation of offices. There are no environmental issues associated with this component.
18. Because of the nature of the proposed mercury cleanup operations, a greater level of detail
for this component is included below.
19. Mercury Cleanup. Sumgait is a city of 350,000'inhabitants located 30 km northwest of
Baku on the northem side of the Abseron peninsula. The city is heavily industrialized and was
one of the major sites for chemical industry in the former Soviet Union. Today, production has
decreased largely due to economic recession causing a lowered demand for the products. Lack of
funds has led to a deterioration of the industrial facilities and production is now closed or
continuing at a limited level. The industrial activities have caused severe environmental
contamination of the Sumgait region including the Caspian Sea. Human health indicators such as
child mortality are significantly higher in Sumgait than the rest of the Republic.
20. Chlorine gas and caustic soda have been'produced in the city of Sumgait using a mercury
amalgam process since 1958. The original chlorine plant ceased operation in 1981 when a new
chlorine plant was opcned nearby and is continuing to- operate at very low efficiency and
production rate. While it was operating, the old chlorine plant used large amounts of mercury,
some of which were lost in the sludge by-product or due to evaporation, liquid spills and
mishandling. A map of the site is provided in the Appendix 4.
21. There are an estimated 65,000 tons of mercury-rich (in the form of organic compounds of
mercury) waste sludge that have been inadequately stored at the site as well as 40,000 tons of
mercury-contaminated soil (in the form of elemental mercury) and building debris under the old
plant. These wastes pose a likely risk for ground water contamination, wind-borne
contamination, and leakage into the Caspian Sea. Preliminary investigations indicate elevated
concentrations in the marine ecosystem including fish for human consumption.
22. The project is aimed at demonstrating efficient clean up and environmentally safe disposal
of the mercury-rich sludges and mercury contaminated soils at the chlorine plant site. The main
features of the on-site activities are as follows:
23. Sludge Dewatering and Stabilization. Pilot tests will be carried out during the design phase
of the operation to determine the most cost effective and least environmentally damaging method
of dewatering and stabilizing the large volume of waste sludges that are stored in temporary



-5-
basins on the plant site. This is aimed at finding the most efficient method for dewatering and/or
stabilizing the mercury-rich sludge making it suitable for transport and disposal. The altemative
methods to be considered are: atmospheric drying on specially constructed open air drying beds,
addition of and mixing with dry inert materials (for example, dry clays from the landfill site) and
dewatering/stabilization by mixing with materials that remove water in chemical processes (for
examnple, calcined lime (CaO) and cement). - -
24. Developing and Applying a Low-Technology Methodfor Mercury Recovery. The soils at the
old factory site are contaminated with mercury in the liquid elemental form which makes
mechanical separation using low-technology feasible. Twenty-six technologies were reviewed
which were considered as applicable to the remediation of mercury contaminated soils.
Technology selection was based on those technologies that were determined to be technically
feasible as stand-alone or individual options and had the greatest potential to:
*  reduce exposure to surface receptors (site workers, area residents, and ecological resources)
and aquatic receptors (surface water resources and the Caspian sea)
*  recover mercury as a recyclable product for resale
*  provide a cost effective strategy which maximizes the local work force
-  provide a technology that can be supported and implemented considering the local
technology and support infrastucture
25. The project could use several options for mercury remediation in parallel. Two principal
options were considered for the mercury remediation:
3 remediation to levels suitable for replacement as excavation fill
? remediation to levels suitable for disposal in a hazardous waste landfill
26. Option 1 would require recovery and treatment resulting is soil concentrations of from 5-20
ppm depending upon soil background concentrations. Concentrations in the order of 10 ppm in
soil are considered as hazardous to human and ecological health (7 ppm in Sweden, 3 ppm in
USA). These levels would require excavation and recovery by a thermal retort and distillation
process. A unit capable of treating approximately 4-5 tons of soil per day should cost
approximately US$500,000 to US$700,000 depending on the sophistication of the mercury
emission control and monitoring equipment.
27. Option 2 would be a substantial refinement of the crude soil washing /gravity separation
process currently being used at the site. It would include a rotary mechanical sluce to separate the
mercury from the coarse soil particles followed by a fluidized bed washing system to clean the
recovered mercury of fine particles, as well as a closed loop water recirculation system and final
treatment of excess water before discharge to the canal to remove traces of dissolved mercury.
Settling basins would recover the treated soil and clay particles and these would have to be
dewatered (using the technology as described above) prior to trasport to the hazardous waste
landfill. Capital cost for the system is expected to be approximately US$350,000 to US$400,000.
28. Core drilling on the old plant site revealed substantial concrete foundations which
complicate the removal of contaminated soils. It is proposed to extract the soils using high
pressure hoses and a slurry sump pump so that the material to be processed will be in the form of



a liquid slurry that is not suited to treatment using heat treatment methods as proposed under
Option 1. Thus Option 2 was selected which is also the least cost method and provides the best
occupational health protection for the workers involved in the operation.
29. Transporting Wastes. The dewatered sludges would be transferred to the hazardous waste
landfill using covered trucks along a designated route which avoids inhabited areas and roads
with heavy traffic. Roads along the proposed route would be strengthened and periodically
maintained. Bridges crossing canals along the route would be temporarily lined and sealed.
Trucks would be inspected to assure they meet operational and safety requirements on a regular
basis. Accident mitigation and emergency response would be included in the transport system
design and training of operators. Trucks would be washed before leaving both the work site and
the landfill and the resulting waste waters treated to remove contaminants.
30. Construction of a Safe Hazardous Waste Landfill. A hazardous waste landfill meeting
international standards would be designed for final disposal of the excavated soils, building
debris, and sludge. The landfill site has been selected following an evaluation of seven different
potential sites identified in a preliminary geological screening process and evaluated according to
a set of topographical, geological, hydrological, climatic and ecological criteria Following the
initial screening, two sites were selected for more detailed geological, hydrological and
topographical investigation. The results of these surveys were used to identify the preferred site
which would fully comply with the international environmental standards. The selected landfill
site is in a remote area away from human habitation with very low rainfall and barren conditions
with gently sloping natural topography, groundwater table at least twenty meters below the
surface, and in an area with a high clay content soil that has no hydrological links to the Sumgait
or Baku watersheds.
31. Work would begin with clearing top soil and sparse vegetation from the site for the landfill.
The base clay should be terraced in accordance with the specified elevations, and if needed,
compacted. To achieve a satisfactory base for the following construction, the compacted clay
must be made smooth. The prepared clay base would then- be covered with a needle-punched
geotextile of polyester, polyethylene or polypropylene having a mass per unit area of at least 400
g/m2. To minimize joining, the geotextile should be at. least 4 m wide. The geotextile should be
laid smooth and in the longitudinal direction of the landfill. The geotextile should have
overlapping joints at least 0.5 m wide. These would follow the "roofing tile" principle, i.e, the
second strip is laid under the first when joining strips, so that the drainage material does not lift
the overlap.
32. A 0.3 m layer of coarse draining material (e.g. sandy gravel with stones) should be
continuously deposited on the geotextile during laying. The material would be taken from a
borrow pit which would be opened for this operation, and should be laid in place with care so
that the geotextile is neither damaged nor moved. A second impermeable geotextile with the
same specifications as above is then laid on top of the drainage layer using the same procedure.
33. In general, large items of scrap, wire cables, timber, etc. should be removed from the
contaminated material prior to deposition. Concrete debris or blocks should not be larger than 0.4
m in diameter. Reinforcing rods should not project from the concrete rubble. Owing mainly to
the risk of wind erosion, the landfill would be divided into three parts of approximately equal
.     .,..- . 



-7-
size. Deposits would start in the northernmost part of the landfill and proceed in a southerly
dircction, in accordance with the dominating wind direction. After part has been built up to its
final height, it should be provided with a sealing and covering layer. This would be carried out at
the same time as the second part of the landfill progresses.
34. The main principle for deposit of material in the landfill is that non-compressible material is
placed centrallly, while more compressible material, such as sludge, is laid at the edge. The
purpose is to nmaintain a dome shape landfill, even after the looser compressible material has
dried out or has decomposed. The landfill process would begin with placing a 0.4 m layer of
fme-grained material from the factory site on the geotextile. Coarser material (e.g. concrete
debris) would be deposited on top of the fine material layer, placed centrally and in a continuous
line along the longitudinal axis of the landfill. There should be no unfilled pockets. The landfill
would then be built up successively with about 0.4 m layers to its full height, each layer being
compacted. The degree of compaction will be decided during laying and will depend on the type
of material. It mray also be necessary to stabilize the uppermost layer of the sludge (with cement
or bentonite). The extent of the measures will be determined in detail during laying and will
depend on the nature of the material and other .circumstances such as weather conditions at the
time of laying. The final layer should be evened out to provide a smooth surface suitable as a
base for laying a plastic membrane.
35. The coveruing layer on the landfill would consist of a plastic membrane that prevents
infiltration by precipitation. Installation should be performed in such a way as to meet the normal
European/North American design specifications. An installation engineer with verified
experience, who will also be responsible for cutting, welding and control of welded joints, should
lay the membrane in place. The membrane should be of UV-stabilized 1.5 mm HDPE (High
Density -Poly-Ethylene) and should be laid smooth. The membrane must withstand laying on
slopes corresponding to 1:3 without extra anchoring.
36. Both the sludge and the excavated material from the fabric area have a content of organic
material. This will create gas when disposed, which might result in lifting effects on the
membrane and also in rare occasions explosion risk: 'Therefore, the gas has to be ventilated
through circular holes of 1 m in diameter with CC 10 m in the membrane, on top of the landfill.
A coarse material (sand) with a diameter of about 2 m shall cover the hole. As the membrane is
laid, an approximately 0.4 m layer of fine grained, non-contaminated material from the burrow
pit should be added. This material should be spread as one layer and with great care so that the
membrane is not damaged or moved. As soon as possible a "dig proof" layer of approximately
0.2 m concrete should be cast above the covering layer. The aim with this layer is to prevent
future accident-al digging or drilling in the landfill. It will also serve as a second erosion
protection layer if the main protection on top of the landfill fails. The "dig proof' layer should be
cast in 10 by 10 m panels, with concrete quality Grade 25. The layer should then be further
covered with approximately 0.2 m of fine grained material. To finish off the landfill an erosion
protection layer, with possibilities for vegetation to root, should be placed on top. This is
recommended to consist of precast concrete bricks. As the erosion layer will be fully exposed to
the weather, a minimum of grad 30 concrete quality with reinforcement should be used. The
thickness should be at least 50 mm and the bricks should have a hole area of about 20-30 % to



-8-
facilitate establishment of vegetation. The shape of the bricks may be Z-formed, square or any
other shape, which is cheap to manufacture and easy to place.
37. The dome shape of the landfill together with the covering plastic membrane will result in
nearly 100 % of the precipitation to run-off as surface water. To prevent this water from
infiltrating the lower parts of the landfill, a drainage system would be needed. The system would
consist of an outer and an inner drain pipe, which both discharge at the lower end of the disposal
area. The inner drain would collect run-off water from the covering plastic membrane, and the
outer drain would collect and draw off surface water. It is essential that especially the outer drain
is dimensioned and laid in a way that it will not be clogged with sediments. Otherwise, this will
result in a continuous need for maintenance in the future.
38. Monitoring Program for Mercury Emissions to Air, Land and Water from the Cleanup
operations. The workers involved in this operation will be at greatest risk from mercury and
other toxic emissions. Workers will be provided where necessary with suitable protective
clothing and breathing equipment to protect them from any such exposures. The atrnospheric
concentrations of potential contaminants would be monitored on a regular basis to ensure their
safety. Regular monitoring of water discharges for mercury would also be carried out to
determine the efficacy of the treatment plant for excess water from the mercury recovery process.
Surface water run-off and ground waters on the clean up and landfill sites will also be monitored
for possible mercury contamination. Yearly environmental surveys of soils, river sediments and
the coastal marine enviromnent will be carried. out starting imnmediately the Association credit
becomes effective. In parallel the most sensitive members of the neighboring population, namely
women of child bearing age and young children would be surveyed -to determine the extent of
mercury in their hair as a key indicator of mercury exposure.
39. The project includes a significant component of training of local staff in modem hazardous
waste clean up and landfill construction technologies as well as hazardous waste management
generally. Significant efforts will be made in the training of local staff in environmental
monitoring and. survey techniques as well as analytical procedures and analytical quality control.
This includes state-of-the-art techniques for sampling,and.analysis of mercury in the environment
which can be used in future operations dealing with similar problems or for general monitoring
of the environment and human health in the future.
D. Baseline Data - Present Environmental State
Physical Environment
40. Geology and Topography. Sumgait is located in the north-western part of the Abseron
peninsula, close to the northeem coast of the Caspian Sea. The Abseron peninsula lies within the
southeastem part of Greater Caucasus. Sediments of Cretaceous up to modem periods are present
in the geological profile of the peninsula. The northwestem slopes, facing the Caspian Sea, have
in some places been terraced by the abrasion of the sea of the Quatemary period. Intensive wind-
erosion occurs due to the predominance of fine-grained soil, lack of vegetation and also tectonic
conditions. This results in wash down of slopes and emergence of ravines.
41. The investigation area lies within the wWestem Abseron anticline, which includes the
Yunusdag anticline. The relief of the investigation area was formed in the younger Pliocene



-9-
period and has changed largely by the denudation processes. Denudation, however, did not
entirely level the surface. The layering of the soil thus reflects both tectonic and denudation
processes.
42. The seismic activity in the area have to be-conrisidered in order to estimate the safety of the
constructions. The site was selected because-there are no geological fault lines in the area which
would be potential lines of failure in the event of seismic activity. The clay layer at the proposed
site is a minimum of 25 meters thick and would provide a measure of seismic protection. As an
additional precaution, the detailed design of the landfill will take into account the frequency and
severity of likely seismic -events. For the detailed design, further information on the potential for
seismic activity will be obtained from the Geophysical and Seismic Institute in Baku.
43. Climate. The climate of the area is typical for half-desert and dry steppe regions with hot
swumers and cold winters. The maximum summer temperatures is 42C, and the winter minimum
is -21 C. Precipitation is on average only 185 mm/year and the main precipitation volume (60-70
percent of the total annual) occurs during the cold season. T-he evaporation rate is high (over
I 000 mm annually). The average relative humidity of the area is 17.4 percent. The predominant
wiind directions are northern, north-western, southern and south-westem winds. Annual average
wind velocity is 7.2 m/sec. Regardless of the season, northerly storms are frequent with wind
velLocities of 20-35 m/sec.
44. In Tables 1 and 2 long-term average data on the main climate properties obtained from the
Sumgait meteorology station are presented.
Table 1: Long-Term Annual Average Climate Data
Month
_______ I         iii  IV   v        VI    J Vill ix   X    xi   XHI  Annual
Average air   2.7  3.3  5.9  10.3  16.5  21.1  24.3  24.7  20.8 I5.9  10.6  5.9  13.5
temperature IC
Precipitation, mm  Is  13 X18  20       6    6    6    I  j24   30   24  185
t Evalporation,mm | 38 |030  47 |77  | I 135  164 1168  122  80   52   46  1064
Table 2: Relative Frequency of Wind Directions, Average Calm Rate (%), and Annual
Wind Speed (AWS)(mlsec)
Season                     Wind directions, %                   Calm      AWS mlsec
N     NE    E      SE    S      SW    W       NW         °/O         7.4
Whnter  24    5      4      3     20    12    4       21          6           7.2
Spring   32    7     3      4     27    8      3       10         6           7.0
Sumnmer 38    12    4       3     17    6      2       12         6           7.2
Auihmn 28    7       4      5     20    11    3        16         6           7.2
Anriual  30    8     4      4     21    9       3      15         6           7.2
45. Air Quality. Large cities in Azerbaijan have suffered from air pollution levels considered
unsafe for human health. Closure and considerably reduced production at major industrial
facilities in Sumgait have contributed to substantial improvements in air quality. Air quality is
monitored in Sumgait for sulfur dioxide (SP2X nitrogen oxides (NOrJ, particulates, carbon
monoxide (CO), hydrogen fluoride (HF), and' other compounds. Data from 1991-95 show that
monitored pollutants in Sumgait reach levels-5 times higher than those allowed by Azerbaijan's
air quality standards (Maximum Permissible Concentrations)...



-lo-
46. Water Resources. Due to the low rainfall and high evaporation, there are very limited fresh
water resources in the area. The only strearn of any size is the Sumgait river which passes
through the industrial area and is highly contarninated with industrial pollutants from direct
discharges and surface water run off and discharges into the Caspian Sea near the large
industrial/domestic effluent treatment plant. The nefrcury-sludge piles are located adjacent to the
river and much of the waste has washed into it over a period of time. Both the Sumgait river and
the sewage treatment facility have been and continue to be sources of pollution contributing to
the "dead ecological zone" which extends a considerable -distance off-shore and along this
northem section of the Abseron peninsula coast line. A man-made water source, the Samur-
Abseron canal runs in a NW-SE direction, approximately 5 krns inland from the industrial area
and provides freshwater to the Abseron peninsula, including Baku and Sumgait as well as other
smaller settlements. The canal discharges into the Yeyran-Batan fresh water reservoir from
which water is also used for irrigation purposes on the Abseron peninsula.
Biological Environment
47. The Caspian Sea, because of its peculiar geologic history, contains a unique, but highly
productive flora and fauna. The top of the food chain is characterized by an endangered seal,
numerous bird species, and several sympatric species of sturgeon, the most well known being
Acipenser gueldenstaedti. The sturgeon and a variety of other fishes arc important in the regional
economy as a food source, and the caviar produced by the sturgeon is exported world-wide with
high revenue potential.
48. A rich literature exists on the fauna and flora of the Caspian. The most comprehensive
English summary of the living marine resources in question prior to more recent industrialization
by the Soviet Union has been given by Zenkevitch (1948; revised and translated from the
Russian in 1961, "The Seas of the USSR," Wiley, New York), in his monograph on all the seas
of the Soviet Union. A more recent volume has been produced by Prof. Abdul Kasymov of the
Institute of Zoology of the Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences. Already published in Russian with
the assistance of the Azerbaijan State Committee for Ecology, this book has been revised and
translated into English and is being prepared for publication in the USA at present. This book's
emphasis is on the effects of pollution on the biota of the. Caspian, specifically on the central
region where most of- the oil production has occurred. A companson is made in the book on a
wide variety of Caspian Sea species encountered around habitats near (former Soviet) oil
production sites and experimental results on the physiological effects of oil and oil production
waste products. Neither work has considered the effects of the Sumgait chemical industrial
wastes on the marine environment and its living resources however. Open disclosure of problems
with industrial chemical contaminants was not encouraged prior to Azerbaij an's independence.
49. Fisheries around the Caspian Sea have traditionally played an important role in the
economies of the surrounding states. While several species of sturgeon, and the caviar they
produce, are considered the principal living renewable resources, numerous other fishes and the
Caspian seal are also important both as food and.as integral components of regional biodiversity.
The biological communuities have had to survive side-by-side with fossil fuel production and an
untold number of natural hydrocarbon seeps. The build-up of the chemical industry in the city of
Sumgait has contributed additional burdens on the Caspian ecosystems. Damning of rivers has



inhibited natural breeding migrations by the sturgeon. Since the disintegration of the USSR, little
control has been possible on fishing effort and catch rates, thus further threatening the sturgeon.
50. A peculiar strategy in the Soviet Union was to. seed seas such as the Caspian with alien
species that could potentially increase the productivity of the food chain from lower levels up
through fisheries products. Such "invasions' are regarded with much trepidation by
contemporary environmentalists, as well as ecologists, but many of the introductions into the
Caspian are prospering.
51. The production of caviar ranks second behind fossil fuel as Azerbaijan's most valuable
natural resource. Caviar is available for home consumption and export, and thus the "health" of
the Caspian is of importance to a diversified free-market economy in Azerbaijan.
52. A "dead zone" exists in the sediments just off the Sumgait industrial district. It stretches in a
wide band along the shore for an unknown distance. Most likely mercury is not solely
responsible for this lack of life but other contaminants emitted from the Sumgait industries.
Mercury is a potent toxin for micro-organisms but likely not at this level. The exact cause of the
azoic nature of the sea floor is not known. It is anticipated that as the pollutant export to the
Caspian abates, the region will once again become more hospitable to fisheries resources.
Mercury in Sumgait and the Caspian Sea
53. In the NEAP, mercury pollution has been identified as the most severe industrial problem in
Sumgait. The mercury pollution emanates from the chlor-alkali production plant located in the
Sumgait industrial area. One plant is currently in operation while the plant formerly situated on
the project site was closed down in 1981 and dismantled. Accurate figures of the leakage of
mercury from the chlor-alkali plants are not available. However, it is estimated that mercury
losses to waste, air, soil and water have at times been as high as 1 kg per ton of chlorine
produced and is currently (1997) estimated at around 300 g/ton. In the currently active plant,
chlorine production has varied between 60 to 70,000 tons per year during the last decades,
indicating annual losses in the order of tens of tors. Production has dropped considerably over
the last 5-6 years with lowered mercury losses as a consequence.
54. Based on available descriptions on amounts of mercury accumulated at the factory area a
rough estimation of accumulated mercury (Hg) can be made: first considering the Hg used during
the period 1987-1997, second the estimated number from 1981, third the estimation from
production in the new factory, and fourth from production figures and the two measurements of
Hg that are available (1981 and 1987). This gives a total of between 893 and 2,341 tons of
consumed mercury during the production process.
55. It is not known to what extent this mercury has entered the Caspian Sea or how it has
affected human health in Sumgait. A major part of the unaccounted mercury is most likely
contained in the process sludge and as elemental mercury in the concrete foundations and the
soils under the factory building. The extent of ieakage to the Caspian Sea is not known, but
mercury in soils and the sludge will be a continuing soource of toxic contaminants to the Caspian
Sea, if measures are not taken to safely dispose of the contaminated materials.
56. The major risk associated with mercury emissions to the Caspian Sea is bioaccumulation in
the marine food chain.
.., X. . .



-12-
57. In the preparatory environmental baseline survey that was carried out for this project, high
levels of mercury were found in sediments of the Sumgait river and to a lesser extent in marine
sediments. This survey also indicates that mercury is accumulating in the marine ecosystem
(algae, mussels and fish) and that toxic levels of methyl-mercury may be present in fish. A
summary of the results are given in the attached figure. The marine survey was carried out by
marine biologists from Texas A & M University and scientists from the Baku Institute of
Zoology to specifically investigate the environmental impact of mercury releases to the Caspian
Sea. The survey found that mercury in the fish and their food chain is predominately methyl-
mercury with a large bio-accumulation factor, as shown in the attached diagram. It is of public
health concern that the highest concentrations of methyl-mercury are found in the beluga
sturgeon sample (1,200 parts per billion (ppb)) purchased in the Baku market, with a level of
methyl mercury exceeding the limiting values for fish in North America and Europe (generally in
the range 500 to 1,000 ppb). This fish is a common source of protein in the coastal areas of
Azerbaijan. The only exceptions in this diagram are mercury in mussels (6,700 ppb), which are
filter feeders extracting fine particles from the passing currents containing non-methylated
mercury and algae (900ppb) attached to the jetty, which are also filtering particles from the water
column. In comparison, fluvial sediments from the Sumigait river contain 8,000 ppb of mercury.



-13-
Diagram of Mercury Transfers in the Environment with Levels of Mercury for
Those items Tested
BIRDS              HUMANS
1 KILKA i
SOURCEP{pHYTOPLANKTON
MULLET
RIVER  T           ZOOPLANKTON        320     l\   STURGEON
EFF V                                          ,t|,200 PPB
FLUVIAL                       msES~
SEDIMNTS                   9 MU{SSELS 16700 PPBB      
SEDIMENT  LONGSHORE R
80001 '   CURRETS\ I                 ATTACHED ALGA        E     Os
I     15 PPB|  COASTAL                       BEN
SEDIMENTS                        BENTHPS
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  iPPB|..



-14-
Survey of Mercury in Human Hair
58. As part of the project's baseline environmental survey, a survey of hair mercury levels for
174 residents of Sumgait was performed by the Institute of Prophylactic Medicine (IPM) in Baku
under the supervision of the Swedish Environmental Research Institute (IVL). In order to
facilitate the evaluation of the results, a questionnaire was prepared where each person was asked
information on age, gender, location of home in relation to the chlorine plant, employment in the
chlorine plant, frequency of fish consumption, and swimming habits. The sanpled individuals
were subdivided for analysis into groups of workers at the chlorine plant, their families,
inhabitants of Sumgait (three groups based on distance from the chlorine plant) and persons with
residence outside Sumgait.
59. Mercury in human hair is mainly used as an indicator of methyl-mercury intake via
consumption of contaminated food. Ingested methyl-mercury is accumulated in the brain tissue
and can lead to damage of the central nervous system. Methyl-mercury is also capable of
crossing the blood - placenta barrier to human fetuses which are more sensitive to exposure than
adults.
60. In unexposed populations, background values of mercury in hair are generally below 1000
ppb, whereas levels above 5,000 ppb have been measured in individuals with a high consumption
of fish containing elevated levels of methyl-mercury. WHO guidelines for mercury in hair give a
value of 6-10,000 ppb as an indicator of exceeding the maximum tolerable intake of methyl-
mercury. Recent studies have indicated that this level is high, and that negative effects occur in
the human fetus in a mother with hair mercury level below 5,000 ppb.
61. In order to determine the accuracy of the results of the local laboratory, 20 split samples
were analyzed by IVL. The results are presented in the following table which shows the average,
median, maximum and minimum values of mercury in hair in ppb obtained by the two institutes,
with "n" representing the number of samples.
|Average |Median |Maximum TMinimnum    N        |
IPM   270      250      5,200       0           1
IVL  920       560      3,350       60          2
62. The average and median values of the results reported by IPM are considerable lower than
the results reported by IVL. Testing of mercury in hair is a highly technical process, and the
actual instrumentation and techniques used by IPM are unknown. Although both the average and
median values reported by IPM are heavily influenced by the large number of samples where
mercury was below the analytical detection limit, it can be concluded that the IPM results are
substantially underestimated.
63. The average mercury concentrations for all the samples reported by IPM is 270 ppb, which
is well below levels considered by WHO to pose a threat to human health. Given the uncertainty
of the obtained analytical results and the indication of a large underestimation of the true values,
this should not be taken as an indication of an overall low exposure in the Sumgayit region. In
comparison, the average of the IVL results is 920 ppb which is also not considered to be high.
However, the maximum levels found by IPM and IVL, 5.2 and 3.35 mg/kg, respectively, are



-15-
high enough to approach levels that may represent a potential health risk to human fetuses.
Furiher analysis of the IPM results into groups that live varying distances from the chlorine plant
and eat fish with more or less frequently, shows that those who live close to the plant and those
who are workers or relatives of workers at the plant, as well as those who eat fish more than once
per week have elevated levels of mercury in their hair.
64. The results of the two environmental baseline surveys indicate that there is a need to carry
out follow-up surveys prior to the start of the mercury cleanup operations to determine more
thoroughly the routes and extent of bio-accumulation of methyl-mercury in the marine ecosystem
and to further test mercury in the hair of critical members of the community, in particular women
of child bearing age and young children. TACIS has agreed to immediately fund these follow up
sunreys and funds have been allowed in the financing of the project to carry out yearly surveys
during the implementation of the project to check that the controls on further releases of mercury
to the environment are effective. If these follow-up surveys indicate excessive exposures of
methyl-mercury, then public health warnings will be issued to the sensitive members of the
population to reduce their consumption of mercury contaminated fish.
Socio-Economic Environment
65. Sumgait was an industrial production center in the former Soviet Union with large-scale
chemical and petrochemical enterprises. Today, Sumgait suffers from the related problems of an
industrial base in steep decline and large-scale environmental pollution. Much of the Soviet
capital infrastructure and technology is beyond its useful life, and investments during the last
decade have been minimal. Productivity of industrial enterprises has declined, workers have been
laid off, and plants have closed. The Sumgait area is one of the most economically depressed
regions of the Abseron peninsula. The chemical industry continues to be an important source of
employment, and the Mayor of Sumgait expressed concern that measures taken to reduce the
environmental impact of the chemical industry could result in inhabitants of Sumgait loosing a
primary source of income.
66. The environmental problems in Sumgait are also extensive. Soviet industrial practices often
ignored enviromnental impacts in an effort to increase output Consequently, Sumgait suffers
from large-scale environmental pollution with significant negative impacts. Health indicators
show that infant mortality in the Sumgait area is six times that of the surrounding areas, and the
incidence of cancer is significantly higher than in the rest of Azerbaijan.
67. The mercury baseline study found that mercury contamination has already occurred in the
nearby Caspian Sea and preliminary survey results indicated toxic levels of methyl-mercury in
fish and other aquatic organisms. The planned follow-up survey would provide the data needed
to prepare a program of public warning and education on the relative risk of consuming certain
species of fish.
E. Environmental Impact
68., The major environmental impact of the mercury cleanup is the removal and safe disposal of
a large amount of toxic mercury containing waste in Sumgait. In its present state, the waste is a
source of emissions to air and water with risk of exposure to both humans and the surrounding
ecosystems. Exposed contaminated media will be distributed to adjacent surface soils and to the



-16-
Caspian sea by wind blown particles, vapor and surface water runoff. These contaminates will
continue to be transported into the Caspian Sea impacting the terrestrial and marine ecology as
well as the residents of the area that utilize the Caspian fo'r'food sources and recreation. Virtually
all of the mercury in the contaminated media has the- potential to migrate to adjacent area lands
and ultimately will find its way into the Caspian Sea. This volume of mercury flowing into the
Caspian will continue to contaminate the area ecosystem for centuries.
69. The overall environmental and public health benefit of the project is expected to be highly
positive in both short and long-term perspectives. The major expected positive impacts for the
mercury cleanup are:
* Reduced emissions of mercury to land, air and water from the contaminated chlorine plant site
and sludge basins
* Long-term removal and safe storage of mercury-containing material
* Potentially reduced human exposure to methyl-mercury from eating fish-in the short term
through public health warnings and education programs and in the longer term by reducing
fiurther losses of mercury to the environment
* Local training in modem hazardous waste management and operation, environmental and
monitoring techniques for mercury, and occupational safety
70. An analysis of these impacts and any potential negative impacts and proposed mitigation is
given below for the various parts of the mercury cieanup.
71. Tbe main overall potential negative impacts are associated with occupational exposure to
mercury and other potentially toxic contaminanits during the cleanup process and further possible
losses of these toxic materials to the environment. Mitigation plans for these potential impacts
are given below. A special case in regard to occupational safety is the operating chlorine-alkali
plant adjacent to the contaminated site. During the preparatory work for this project, it became
apparent that leaks of chlorine gas from this plant constitute a more serious risk to cleanup
workers' health and safety on the contaminated'site than the mercury itself. The currently
operating plant is in a very poor state of repair and experiences frequent shut-downs because of
chlorine leaks. In a letter from Prime Minister Rasi-zade sent to the World Bank on May 18, the
Government of Azerbaijan stated that it has decided to close the chlorine-alkali plant.
Mercury Recovery
72. It is possible to recover mercury in the liquid elemental form from the soils under the old
chlorine plant site, for which a low technology wet mechanical separation technology has been
selected that is the most suited to the conditions on the site and for the protection of workers.
After the mercury recovery, the soil will be dewatered/stabilized as discussed below and then
transported to the landfill for safe disposal. Excess- water from the mercury recovery process will
be treated to remove mercury before discharge to the Caspian Sea.
Positive Impact
73. Being a highly dense liquid metal, elemental mercury has the property that it will migrate in
the soil laterally as well as vertically wherever it finds even the smallest of cracks or voids. This
has been observed in the results of the geological survey on the old chlorine plant site where the



-17-
mercury spilled on the concrete floor of the plant has migrated down to more than 6 meters and
has spread even outside the boundary of the plant. If the mercury is not removed from this soil
before it is deposited in the landfill it would also migrate and any imperfections in the
containmnent barrier would result in further migration into soils outside the containment structure.
Using a wet process for mercury recovery rather tharn a high temperature distillation process
greatly reduces the potential for mercury losses to the air and, therefore, the risk of occupational
exposure to the clean up personnel.
Neg,ative Impact
74. Potentially negative impacts are associated with unexpected events causing leakage and/or
spillage such as failure to implement safety rules and quality control procedures.
Mitigation Measures
75. The proposed mercury recovery technology is common in the gold mining industry
worldwide and is currently in use in Europe and the USA for mercury cleanup operations along
the lines that are proposed for this site. The same precautions to prevent mercury releases to the
environment have been built into the design and operation of the facility that would meet even
the strictest European and US standards. A water recycling system is proposed so that it is only
necessary to treat excess water to remove mercury before discharge to the Caspian Sea. Further
surveys of the soils in and around the plant site will be carried out during the cleanup operation
to ensure that the full extent of contamination is defined and excavated accordingly. During the
process, the groundwater table around the plant site will be drawn down potentially capturing
any contaminated ground waters and preventing further escape to the environment. The operation
will be designed and implemented by an experienced international contractor under a project
management contract. The contractor will be responsible for preparing detailed work plans
including environmental and occupational safety protection measures that will have to be
followed during implementation. Workers will be provided with personal protective equipment
and training in occupational safety and environmental protection. On-site showers and dressing
rooms will be provided for the site workers as w,el'as'protective coveralls, boots, and gloves. A
health monitoring plan which will include monthly'medical check-ups will be implemented to
assure that the personal protective equipment is being used and is effective. The currently
operating chlorine plant will. be shut down prior to the start of cleanup operations because of the
high risk of accidental releases of toxic chlorine from this plant.
Slludge Treatment Operation
76. The mercury-rich waste sludge and the wet soils from the mercury recovery plant will have
a high moisture content which makes them difficult to handle and transport safely. Therefore, it
mill be necessary to dewater/stabilize them before transport and disposal in the safe landfill.
Positive Impact
77. The process will reduce the potential loss of contaminated materials to the enviromnent
through leakage especially during utnsport. In addition it will also make the materials more
stable for landfilling.
PNegative Impact
78. Potentially negative impacts are risk of occupational exposure to mercury and chlorinated
hydrocarbons during handling and treatment of sludge and spills during the treatment process.



-18-
Mitigation Measures
79. During the first phase of the mercury cleanup, pilot scale testing of different sludge
treatment alternatives will be made. These test will focus on finding the optimal method for
dewatering/stabilization of the sludge. Workers safety and avoidance of leakage/spills as well as
fugitive dust emissions will be important criteria in this work. Furthermore, detailed analysis of
the sludge will be made to identify other potential toxins which may require special precautions
for worker occupational exposure. Workers will be provided with the necessary protective
clothing and safety equipment and will be instructed in occupational health and safety
procedures.
Transport of Sludge and Contaminated Soils to Safe Disposal Site
80. The treated sludge will be transported by dump trucks to a purpose-built hazardous waste
landfill.
Positive Impact
81. Removal of large quantities of mercury from the Sumgait industrial area will lead to reduced
occupational exposure and reduced emissions to air and water. Long-term benefit would be a
reduction of mercury in the Caspian Sea and reduced human exposure via fish consumption.
Negative Impact
82. Potentially negative impacts are associated with risks. for site workers exposure during
transportation and accidental leaking and spills may cause additional environmental exposures.
Diversion of these loads for other uses or simply for sake of convenience to the drivers to dump
locally in uncontrolled landfills or on the side of the road is also a risk. Increased road traffic will
occur during the transport of the sludge and contaminated soils to the landfill site. Fugitive dust
emissions during transport is another potential source of environmental contamination. Of
particular importance is to make sure that no spillage or fugitive dust blow off occurs on the
short bridge over the freshwater canal transferring water to the Yeyran-Batan reservoir which
supplies water for the whole Abseron peninsula.:. -
Mitigation Measures
83. Fugitive dust controls will be implemented during truck loading at the plant site following
the process of stabilization. All trucks used to transport these materials will have specially fitted
covers to prevent dust blow off during transport. Before leaving the site a special truck chassis
and wheel washing system will be operated to remove any contaminated materials. The waste
disposal site has been specially selected to minimize the transport distance (some 18 kms) from
the industrial area of Sumgait and to avoid built-up areas along the selected route to the site. The
route passes through old waste dumps and uninhabited lands. Sections of the route will be
improved by better paving and strengthening as needed, and the small bridge over the fresh water
canal will also be strengthened and sealed so that there is no chance of accidental spillage into
the canal. Drivers will be instructed in traffic safety and will be regularly monitored to ensure
that they are following safe driving practices. A hazardous waste manifest system will be
introduced to control all loads leaving the clean up site and to ensure that all of the waste
generated is transported to the safe landfill where each load will be inspected and the manifests
recorded.



-19-
Coinstruction of Hazardous Waste Landfill
84. A hazardous waste landfill would be built in an area with a high clay content soil that is not
hyclrologically linked to either the Sumgait or Baku watersheds and is remote from human
habitation. The hazardous waste landfill will be designed and constructed to meet or exceed
international and local environmental and safety standards.
Positive Impact
85. The construction of the hazardous waste landfill will encapsulate the toxic mercury
contaminated materials and keep them  permanently separated from  the environment. A
substantial amount of mercury containing wastes that otherwise could have resulted in further
ecological damage and negative human health impacts will thus be safely isolated. The disposal
site that has been set aside for the mercury waste has an area of 50 hectares and is large enough
to handle other hazardous wastes generated in future cleanup operations or from future industrial
operations on the Abseron peninsula. As a result, local experts will be trained in modem
hazardous waste management techniques and technical operations for continuing application
with other waste streams.
Negative Impact
86. The main potential problem for the construction and maintenance of the landfill is
considered to be the wind erosion caused by the frequent high winds and general absence of a
vegetation cover. A small amount (less than 5 hectares) of land will be disturbed during the
corLstruction and operation of the mercury landfill site. Larger areas will be needed if other
hazardous waste deposits will be constructed. The options for other types of land use will be
restricted.
87. The proposed site can be characterized as a heavily overgrazed range land with extensive
erosion loss of topsoil. No sensitive species or habitat are known in the area. Topsoil will be
stockpiled for reuse in the rehabilitation of the surface once the landfill is covered. However, due
to ithe dry windy conditions there is a risk of fugitive dust emissions during the layering of the
waste material in the landfill. As in all such landfill operations, the major concem is to prevent
leakage of toxic materials from the deposit. In addition, the trucks that return for depositing
waste in the landfill can have waste material clinging to their tires or chassis, which if not
removed will contaminate the transport routes and the environment.
Mitigation Measures
88. The landfill will be designed and constructed on a natural clay deposit of considerable
thickness which will act as a geological barrier undemeath the waste and will prevent leakage
into the biosphere. Moreover, the landfill design incorporates an intemal drainage system and is
enclosed in a plastic membrane cover which prevents seepage of rainfall into the waste deposit.
Provision is also made for gas venting to prevent build up of gas and possible gas explosions.
The plastic membrane will be adequately protected.by a concrete layer and special provisions
will be made to reduce wind erosion and facilitate surface stabilization of a vegetative cover on
the deposit. Fugitive dust emissions will be controlled during construction of the landfill by
careful application and compaction of the waste layers (with possible use of water sprays), as
wel by the technology selected for waste stabilization/dewatering. The landfill would be
monitored for five years after completion and any leaks repaired under the contractor's five year



-20-
guarantee. The site will, if possible, be re-vegetated with native species and will serve as a
demonstration of waste landfill site rehabilitation. Vehicles leaving the site will be sprayed with
water to remove wastes attached to their tires or under their chassis. Construction workers will be
given safety training and construction practices will conform to intemational standards of safety.
Personal protective equipment and training will be provided to site workers.
F. Analysis of Alternatives
89. An analysis of alternatives were considered for the following: (a) remediation of the old
chlorine plant site; (b) remediation of the sludge basins; (c) landfill siting; and (d) landfill cover
construction; and (e) traffic route to the landfill. In all cases the no action altemative was the base
condition for which to judge the environmental benefits and risks of the various actions that were
proposed.
Remediation of the Old Chlorine Plant Site
90. The following alternatives were evaluated in determining the best method of preventing
further releases of mercury from the old chlorine plant site:
* Recovery of mercury and cleaning of soil to acceptable levels for backfilling into the
excavation;
* Excavation of contaminated soil and recovery of the mercury, dewatering/stabilization of the
treated soil and transport to a safe landfill, then backfilling of the excavation with clean fill;
* On-site remediation with encapsulation of contaminated soil in situ; and
* Excavation of soil and transfer to a safe landfill without mercury recovery.
No Action Alternative
91. Currently workers from the factory have set up a veIy crude sluice to recover mercury from
soil under the old plane site. Some of the cement flooring has been removed and shallow
excavations have been made to collect soil for washing and removal of the mercury. In one of the
areas sampled it was found that they were able to reduce the mercury content of the soil from 13
percent to 3 percent, which is an appreciable level of recovery considering the low level of
technology, but leaves the soil in a condition that would require further treatment even for
landfilling. There are no occupational safety protection measures for the workers and the water
from the operation drains untreated into the Caspian Sea. The area is characterized by a high
water table level and the geological survey indicates that the mercury is spreading laterally as
well as vertically. Hence, under the no action alternative, mercury is continuing to escape into the
environment and in particular the Caspian Sea and workers are being exposed to occupational
health risks.
Other Alternattves
92. As indicated above, several alternatives have been evaluated for preventing mercury releases
to the environment from the old chlorine plant site. Investigations of this site show that a large
amount of concrete footings from the old building. are present, extending as far as 3.6 m below
surface. The soil is also mixed with asphalt, gravel, concrete and debris such as bricks. The
concentrations of mercury in the soil at the old factory site are extremely high and at some points



-21-
exceed 100 g of Hg /kg dry weight (i.e., 10%). The investigated area covers about 9000 m2 but
contamination extends beyond this area as shown by the results of the core drilling. Surface
groundwater is prevalent at the site with the groundwater level about 0.5 m below the soil
surface. This could partly be man-made groundwater since drainage conditions at the site are
insufficient and drainage tubes have been partly corroded by the aggressive water. The mercury
concentrations in the groundwater are several ug/per liter compared to typical values for Dutch
groundwater (0.01-0.05 ug/L) or Swedish (0.0006-0.05 ug/L) values.
93. Alternatives with advanced mercury removal to levels that would allow backfilling into the
excavation were rejected because: (a) with the high soil moisture content due to the high
groundwater levels at the site, this type of advanced treatment is considered unrealistic as it
requires a high temperature technology to vaporize the mercury from the soil and recovery of the
mercury in water cooled condensers; (b) expensive environmental monitoring and mercury
emission controls have to be installed adding to the already high capital and operating cost of the
equipment and level of sophistication of the technology; and (c) the heterogeneity (concrete
foumdations, bricks, water, building debris, asphalt, etc.) of the soil requires that it be extracted
usiing a wet process which is unsuited to the thermal mercury recovery technology.
94. Excavation and direct disposal of the contaminated soils and debris in a safe landfill is
probably the most economic alternative, although excavation would be complicated by the large
concrete foundations. However, due to the extremely high concentrations of metallic mercury in
the soil, mercury would remain in a mobile state and would create major problems in the landfill
even to the extent of eventually finding paths for leaching into the biosphere. Hence this
altemative was not considered to be environmentally acceptable.
95. Isolation of the contaminated site by in situ methods of containment depend on the existence
of a sound clay base under the site and effective methods of forming an impenetrable barrier to
prevent fiurther migration of the mercury and ground waters from the site in a lateral direction.
However, there was insufficient evidence of a suitable clay layer under the plant site from the
geological survey to consider this altemative any further. Moreover, the corrosive nature of the
ground waters on the site would require special precautions to protect the sealing material to be
used in forming the barrier.
965. For the mercury recovery operation, some 20 technologies were evaluated to select those
that were technically feasible and had the greatest potential to:
* reduce mercury exposure to site workers, area residents, and the environment;
* recover mercury as a recyclable product for reuse;
* provide a cost effective strategy which maximizes use of the local work force; and
* provide a technology that could be maintained and operated effectively under the constraints
of the local economy and infrastructure.
97. Experience in Europe and the USA indicate that it is preferable to set up the mercury
recovery equipment on-site rather than transport the contaminated soil to a processing facility at
another site, either in-country or overseas. The costs of transporting large volumes of waste for
long distances become prohibitive. Thus the preferred alternative is to install a simple robust



-22-
method for mercury recovery on-site followed by subsequent transport and disposal of the treated
waste to a safe landfill.
98. Following an evaluation of the different technologies, it was decided to use a combination of
processing steps to produce a mercury product which would have a good market value in order to
offset some of the costs of the operation. The proposed approach uses complementary
technologies in the following steps:
* Excavation of high concentration mercury contaminated soils using high pressure water hoses
and a slurry sump pump to extract the washings from the excavated pit.
* Separation and recovery of elemental mercury from the slurry using a rotary sluice or other
suitable gravity separation devise comrnmon to the mining industry. The recovered mercury
would be cleaned in a water fluidized bed extractor to produce a readily saleable product.
* Settling of the suspended soil particles from the sluicing and washing operations to produce a
wet slurry and dewatering/stabilizing of the slurry to meet the requirements of the hazardous
waste landfill operation.
a Recycle of settling basin overflow water to the excavation operation and treatment of excess
water by chemical precipitation to levels safe for disposal to the environment.
* I eaving large concrete foundations in place and backfilling the excavation with clean fill
material.
Sludge Basins
No Action Alternative
99. The mercury-contaminated sludge has been stored in brick-lined basins located on the banks
of the Sumgait river, which passes through the industrial area. Some of the basins have been
overfilled and as a result during rain storms sludge is washed into the river and into the Caspian
Sea. High winds also erode the surface of the sludge piles distributing the toxic waste over a
wide area including the Sumgait river. Hence under existing conditions the sludge piles create a
severe environmental and health impact and because of their location must be excavated and
redeposited in a safe landfill. The only question remains as to the method of dewatering and
stabilizing the wet slurry so that it is suitable for transport and disposal.
Other Alternatives
100. Several technologies for reducing the water content have been considered such as:
* Draining of the material on specially constructed open air filter beds with under drains to
facilitate dewatering. While the method is low cost it involves two stages of materials
handling with increased possibilities for spillage,s and worker occupational exposure. The
beds would also be subject to wind erosion and increased risk of generating fugitive dust
emissions. The process is also slow requiring a larger area to operate. Filtrate water drained
off the beds would have to be treated before discharge to the enviromment.
* Use of mechanical dewatering devises (on e:g., centrifuges, vacuum-suction units, hydraulic
presses, etc.) would overcome some of the disadvantages of the simple drying beds indicated
above, but would be costly to set up on site and would need regular maintenance and possible



-23-
costly repairs if not operated according to manufacturer specifications. One problem would be
building and other debris in the sludge which would increase the risk of mechanical failures.
* Other means to reduce the water content of the material is to mix the sludge with a dry inert
(with respect to water) material in a suitable mixing device (i.e., a rotary drum mixer or
batching plant as used in the cement industry. This will increase the amount of material that
has to be transported but the technical problems with fine material (which tend to block
filtering devices) and handling of filtrate water will be avoided. Overall though this would be
a low cost method with good environmental benefits. It could be set up as a continuous
operation to minimize materials handling and losses of material to the environment.
* Solidification of the sludge by mixing it with, for example, cement, calcined lime or
bentonite. This will reduce the hydraulic conductivity (permeability) in the sludge which is
positive feature in the landfill. Other advantages are that fugitive dust emissions would be
virtually eliminated in the processing and transport of the material. However, the cost of the
additives are high which makes this altemative less financially attractive than the use of
locally available dry inert material. Another disadvantage is that the amount of material that
has to be transported and disposed of will increase.
101. At this point of time it is not possible to determine which is the best alternative. Further
investigations have to be performed and pilot test carried out to see which one provides the best
long term environmental and worker protection at the lowest cost.
Landfill Site Selection
102. Initially seven sites were selected from geological and topographical maps of the area near
Sumgait for siting the proposed hazardous waste landfill. Following on-site inspections by
geological and environmental experts two of the sites were selected for more detailed
topographical, geological and hydrogeological investigation. Both sites are situated in
uninhabited areas about 15 km from Sumgait and shallow alluvium sediments cover the surface
with deep dense clay layers undemeath. Site I is located 15 km. to the south-west of Sumgait.
The area has a mainly flat surface with a gentle slope from north-west to south-west. Ground
waters are below a depth of 25 m from the surface. Site 2 is located 4 km away from site 1 (to the
north-west). Absolute heights are 100-115 m sloping from north-north-west to south-south-east.
Sediment composition here is basically similar to that of site 1, but the soil contains more water.
103. The choice of site I for the proposed hazardous waste disposal facility was based on the
following:
* The transport distance and conditions of road were more favorable than at site 2
* The slopes are lower at site 1, decreasing the risks of erosion
* The available area for potentially other hazardous waste deposits were larger at site 1
Landfill Cover Construction
104. Different options for the top sealing material for the landfill were considered, including:
* Clay from the deposit area
* Bentonite mixtures



-24-
* Cement mixtures
* HDPE-membranes
105. Since the clay in the deposit area has a limit of plasticity due to its limited water content, it
can only be used if for this purpose if more water is added to it before construction starts.
However, mixing water with this clay under the conditions on this site would be a major
difficulty and may not even be feasible.
106. Bentonite mixtures are an alternative if they are properly compacted. The costs for local
bentonite are, however, high. Furthermore, the mixtures would have to achieve a sufficiently low
hydraulic permeability, and absorption of water would have to be sufficient to withstand the arid
conditions in the area.
107. The problem with cement mixtures are similar to those with bentonite mixtures.
108. HDPE-membranes have been evaluated as the most economic alternative for this purpose.
The supplier of the membrane will carry out the cutting, welding of splices and quality control of
the installation to ensure that the material is water tight. The material is sustainable under arid
conditions and its use, as well as experiences with its sealing performance, are wide-spread.
Selection of Traffic Route to Landfill
109. Several routes from the industrial area to the landfill site were considered. The final choice
of route was made to minimize the number of crossings (to just one) of the Samur-Abseron canal
and to avoid any area of human habitation. The selected route is paved until it leaves the highway
where it becomes an earth road for about 2 km until it reaches the landfill. The standard of the
unpaved roads will be improved with locally available construction material.
G. Mitigation Plan
Sludge Treatment
Code                            Mandatory Pmcaution Measures
1,2   The waste water from the dewatering processes must be treated at the site and the treatmen
residue must be disposed of in the safe landfill.
1,2   Analysis of the sludge with respect to mercury and other contaminants must be done frequently.
1,2   All waste spillage from the process must be collected immediately and properly disposed of in th
safe landfill.
1, 2 A washing facility must be installed at the site. The waste water has to be treated at the site an
the treatment residue has to be properly disposed of in the safe landfill.
1,2   Facilities to combat dusting by water sprinkling must be installed and used whenever needed.
I     Workers must for their personal protection wear safety helmets, rubber boots, gloves and other
protective clothes. They should also have at hand a gas mask to be used at extensive dustings.
Clothes and boots etc. must be properly cleaned whenever the personnel leaves the area for the
day or for lunch etc.
I = Health and safety precautions
2 = Environmental control measures



-25-
Mercury Recovery
Code                        Mandatory Precaution Measures
1, 2   A detailed work plan must be developed and approved to ensure that recovery operations
_ do not conflict with other activities on the site.
F    A health and safety plan must be produced.
I    A health monitoring plan must be implemented to assure that appropriate personal
equipment is used and is effective.
1, 2   A fugitive dust and mist program will be developed and implemented to reduce the
contaminate dispersal on and off site.
I    Workers must for their personal protection wear safety helmets, rubber boots, gloves and
other protective clothes. They should also have at hand a gas mask to be used at
extensive dustings. Clothes and boots etc. must be properly cleaned whenever the
personnel leaves the area for the day or for lunch etc.
I = Health and safety precautions
2 = Environmental control measures
Excavation and Loading of Contaminated Material
Code                        Mandatory Precaution Measures
1, 2   The site and all internal access roads and possible evacuation roads must be defined and
clearly marked.
1, 2   Vehicles are only allowed along the official and marked roads.
2     The site must be well drained. Extemnal (clean) runoff water shall be diverted by cut off
ditches etc.
1    All vehicles must have gas masks easily available for the driver and helpers and any
other person riding with the vehicle.
1, 2 All waste spillage from loading activities must be collected immediately from all areas
outside the excavationtloading area and the waste deposit.
1, 2 A washing facility must be installed at the site with the capacity to remove all
contaminated material that sticks to the vehicles used. The waste water has to be treated
at site and the treatment residue has to be properly taken care of.
2     The face of the excavation must be covered during rain to prevent excess water content
in the waste and minimize the erosion risk. This can be achieved by a special
_ arrangement of geomembranes or tarpaulins.
1,2   Facilities to combat dusting by water sprinkling must be installed and used whenever
_ needed.
1     Workers must for their personal protection wear safety helmets, rubber boots, gloves and
other protective clothes. They should also have at hand a gas mask to be used at
extensive dustings. Clothes and boots etc. must be properly cleaned whenever the
_ personnel leaves the area for the day or for lunch etc.
1 = Health and safety precautions
2 = E]nvironmental control measures



-26-
Transport and Unloading
Code                         Mandatory Precaution Measures
I     All necessary traffic regulations/diversions must be made for all roads that are used for
the transport of polluted waste. Special attention should be paid to interference with
public roads.
2     Roads and bridges leading to the landfill site must be strengthened.
1     All transport trucks must be in good and safe conditions to avoid traffic incidents. This
should be regularly checked.
1,2   The loading trucks (carriers) to be used must be equipped with a cover on the load that
prevents dusting.
1, 2   A special area must be arranged and marked for unloading of transported waste. No
waste is allowed to be tipped or stockpiled outside this area and only loaders are
allowed to traffic the area and collect waste to be disposed of.
1, 2   All waste spillage must be collected immediately from all areas outside the marked area.
1, 2   A washing facility shall be installed at the landfill site with the capacity to remove all
contaminated material that sticks to the vehicles used. The waste water has to be treated
at site and the treatment residue has to be taken care of.
2     Placing of waste in the landfill shall be arranged according to a plan that ensures that
there is place enough in the unloading area.
1,2   All stockpiled waste shall be sufficiently covered to avoid over saturation and/or dust
erosion.
1     Workers must for their personal protection wear rubber boots, gloves and other
protection clothes. They should also have at hand a protection mask to be used at
extensive dustings. Clothes and boots-etc. must be properly cleaned whenever the
-   personnel leaves the area for the day or for lunch etc.
Landfill
Code                         Mandatory Precaution Measures
1, 2   Facilities to combat dusting by water spfinkling must be installed and used whenever
needed.
2     The final coverage of the deposit must be immediately applied when the specific unit of
the deposit is filled up and approved. The coverage must comply with the technical
specifications.
1.    Workers must for their personal protection wear rubber boots, gloves and other
protective clothes. They should also have at hand a protective mask to be used at
extensive dusting. Clothes and boots etc. must be properly cleaned whenever the
personnel leaves the area   ..
I = Health and safety precautions
2 = Environmental control measures
.4   ...  ;  *.  *    .    .



-27-
H. Monitoring Plan
110. The main purpose of the monitoring plan is to monitor the current environmental
condlitions in and around the old factory site and how these conditions improve during the
implementation of the project. The main objectives of the monitoring plan are to:
(a)   monitor potential releases of mercury to land, air and sea before, during and after
the cleanup operation;
(b)   determine the imnpact of mercury in the Caspian Sea offshore from the Sumgait
industries on fisheries and the marine environment;
(c)   set up a monitoring program to monitor potential releases of mercury from the
selected disposal site; and
(d)   determine and monitor exposure routes of mercury in the Caspian Sea and the
potential health impact on the population of Sumgait.
111. Detailed descriptions of proposed monitoring plans can be found in the supporting
documents. A brief summary is given here of the objectives.
112. Al. Definition of a relevant strategy for monitoring of mercury releases via air,
groundwater and effluent water at the contaminated site and the sludge basins. The monitoring
should cover a three-year period commencing before the recovery and cleanup activities are
started and continuing for an additional five years after the landfill is closed.
113. A2. Installation of necessary sampling equipment'and monitoring of mercury in air,
groundwater and effluent water at the contaminated site and around the sludge site following the
proposed sampling strategy.
114. B1. Definition of a relevant strategy for monitoring of mercury in the marine environment.
The strategy should include measurements of mercury in water, sediments and biota (fish and
benthic organisms) in the coastal area of the Caspian Sea. Specific measurements of methyl-
mercury should be considered in some cases. Sampling sites should be selected directly adjacent
to the outlet from the Sumgait industrial site as well as at background sites not directly affected
by the industrial effluents. The selection of background sites should be based on prevailing
currents and transport pathways in the Caspian Sea.
115. B2. Measurements of mercury following the proposed monitoring strategy. Identification
of ecosystem structure and bioaccumulation pathways of the Caspian Sea focusing on the
Sumgait coastal area and fish species available for human consumption. Development of a
descriptive model for the uptake and bioaccumulation of mercury/methyl-mercury in the marine
food chain.
116. Cl. Definition of a relevant strategy for monitoring of mercury releases from the waste
disposal site. The strategy should include monitoring of releases to air, drainage water and
groundwater over a period of five years after the completion of the landfill.
117. C2. Installation of necessary sampling equipment and monitoring of mercury following the
proposed monitoring strategy.



-28-
118. D1. Perform human hair surveys for mercury in the population of Sumgait. Surveys should
be performed at one occasion before the mercury cleanup operation is started and two times after
the completion of the mercury cleanup operation,
I. Environmental Management and Training
119. The project will contain an extensive program for training of local staff in areas related to
the cleanup of the site and operation of the landfill. For all training activities, support from local
authorities and institutions is critical. The major areas of training are:
* Environmental monitoring
* Workers' safety
* Management of hazardous waste landfill
Environmental Monitoring Training
120. The training in environmental monitoring will include strategies and techniques for
monitoring of mercury releases from the industrial site and the landfill area as well as monitoring
of the marine environment and human health impact. The training will follow all the major issues
outlined above. Training should be started as soon as the project is commenced in order to allow
an increasing transfer of responsibility to local expertise during the progress of the work.
121. The main components of the training in environmental monitoring are:
- environmental fate of mercury, its transport and effects on human health
- sampling strategies and available techniques for mercury in the environment
* techniques for analysis of mercury and its compounds in the environment
* evaluation of data and risk assessment
122. The training in environmental monitoring will run in parallel with a significant transfer in
technology and investments in order to allow the completion of the project with significant local
participation.
Workers' Safety
123. The result and quality of the whole project will to a great extent depend on that all involved
personnel understand the precautions and why they are needed. Therefore, all personnel have to
be informed and trained. The training must include:
* information about personal protection such as safety helmets, rubber boots, gloves and other
protective clothes. They should also have at hand and know how to use a gas mask to be used
at extensive dustings or as protection against chlorine gas leaks. Clothes and boots etc. must
be properly cleaned whenever the personnel leave the area for the day or for lunch etc.
* information about the toxicity of mercury and how it affects the human body and the
environment. It is recommended that all senior staff have extensive training in this.
124. It should also be noted that all visitors to the old factory site, sludge basins and the landfill
area have to be informed about the necessary precautions for their personal safety.



-29-
Hazardous Waste Landfill Management
125. Since there is a lack of elaborated disposal strategies concerning hazardous waste in the
Republic of Azerbaijan, the landfill in the current project may. serve as a guideline for the future.
The chosen disposal strategy for the new landfill is based on the recently formulated Swedish
regulations and the European Union's proposal for landfill directives.
126. To understand the construction of the landfill and its different precaution layers, a course in
disposal strategy is proposed. This course is aimed at governnental and regional staff members
as well as key personal in the project.
J. Consultation and Reviews
127. Local experts have been involved in the data collection, interpretation and review of this
EA. The State Committee on Geology collected geologic data at the old factory site and the
proposed landfill site. The Institute of Prophylactic Medicine conducted hair and demographic
data collection on mercury contamination. The Mayor of Sumgait, the deputy to the mayor on
environment, and the chlorine plant manager were consulted on all aspects of the project.
128. An Environmental Assessment workshop was held in Sumgait on April 28 to which
representatives of ministries and state organizations, local authorities and municipalities, non
governmental organizations, scientific research institutes, industrial enterprises and the press
were invited. At the workshop, the project plan was presented and participants were given the
opportunity to question the representatives of the World Bank, State Committee on Ecology,
local authorities, and the World Bank consultants on various aspects of the project. A draft EA
was presented to the participants prior to the -workshop. A summary of the workshop
presentations and the discussion is given in Appendix 2,.
K. Appendices
Appendix 1. List of Environmental Assessment Preparers and Organizations.
Appendix 2. Record of the Consultation Meeting.
Appendix 3. Cost Estimate and Time Plan for the Proposed Project.
Appendix 4. Map of Mercury Cleanup Site and Landfill...



-30-
Appendix 1
List of Environmental Assessment Preparers and Organizations
John Munthe, Swedish Environmental Research Institute (IVL), Gothenburg, Sweden
Jan Sundberg, Karsten Hikansson, Bertil Nord and Jan Rogbeck, Swedish Geotechnical Institute
(SGI), Linkoping, Sweden
Gilbert T. Rowe and William J. Rogers, Texas A&M University, Texas, USA
Professor Alekoerov, State Committee on Geology and Natural Resources, Baku, Azerbaijan
Professor Namik Aliyev, Institute of Phrophylactic Medicine, Baku, Azerbaijan



-31-
Appendix 2
Minutes of the EA Assessment Workshop Held by the World Bank, State Committee on
Ecology and Control of Natural Resources Utilization and Sumgait Executive Authorityto
Discuss the "Mercury Cleanup and Construction of Hazardous Waste Landfill" Project
Apiril 28, 1998
Participants: WB experts, representatives of the ministries and state organizations, local
municipalities, non-government organizations, scientific-research institutes, industrial
ente:rprises, press (the list of the participants attached).
Agenda: Discussion of the EA on the "Mercury Clean Up and Construction of the Hazardous
Wastes Landfill" Project.
Listened to:
1. Arif Islamzadeh - Ecology Advisor to the Sumgait Mayor. A. Islamzadeh welcomed the
participants and briefed them on the workshop objectives and tasks.
2. Aloyev H.B. - Sumgait -city Deputy Mayor. He mentioned the project implementation
importance for Sumgait. Sumgait -city is one of the most heavily industrialized cities of the
Azerbaijan Republic and consequently a well developed industry production in line with
inadequate ecological protection under the soviet policy severely affected the environment.
Linked to the foregoing serious factors, the future landfill project should duly consider both
mercury and other hazardous wastes disposal.
3. M!uradov R.B.- (NEAP Coordinator in Azerbaijan). The Project in question is included into
NEAP priorities list, approved by the Governrment of the Azerbaijan Republic on January 8,
]1998. WB and State Committee on Ecology and Control of Natural Resources Utilization
(hereinafter SCECNRU) experts in cooperation with scientific research institutes and non-
governmental organizations (hereinafter NGO) representatives started developing Mercury
Clean Up Project including NEAP document. According to the Provision "NEAP Process in
Azrbaijan" a NEAP document need to be developed before Project implementation, be



-32-
discussed with community and be thoroughly examined by the experts of SCECNRU.
Muradov R.B asked the participants to be active during the discussion of the document and
suggest constructive proposals.
4. Mamedov Ch. F.- (WB NEAP Coordinator) - Mamedov CH. F.explained where is a basic
difference between World Bank acting as Development Bank and normal investrnent banks.
The task of the WB comprises project development, technical and financial support to the
projects important for the perspective progress of the country. This workshop is held to
provide a fill transparency, which is one of the basic components required by the WB in
respect to the projects having high ecological impact and importance.
5. John Munthe (WB Project Expert) mentioned that the document in question is developed in
co-operation with WB, SCECNRU, State Committee on Geology, Zoology Institute and
Ministry oh Health's Epidemiology and Hygiene Centre. This document duly considers all
the possible implementation impacts on the environment. For the purpose of this project
including EA a number of studies have been carried out to determine present soil, ground
water, coastal zones, flora and fauna of the sea bottom state including mercury content in the
human hair within Sumgait -city population. In addition, engineering \ research surveys have
been conducted within two sites of the Apsheron peninsula. One of the sites is completely
consistent with both geological and ecological requirements needed for the project
implementation and due to the features mentioned was selected for the purpose of hazardous
wastes landfill construction. Jh. Munthe informed the participants on the mercury
contamination accumulated within the old chlorine producing plant and sludge basins.
Monitoring will be required to be carried out within the area once the landfill construction is
accomplished.
6. Bertill Nord - WB Project Expert presented the participants feasibility studies results of this
Project and told about the construction of identical landfills in other countries. The landfill
site selection was based on the ecological safety.
7. Adishirin Alekperov- Geology and Hydrogeology Department Manager under State
Committee on Geology mentioned that geological tests proved that mercury is accumulated
not only at the 6m depth within old factory area but also is accumulated outside the old plant
territory. In regards to the site selected for the landfill its location and features are consistent



-33-
with geological and technical conditions, taking into account that lithology of this site
represents an area with a high clay content'soi[ and reserves of ground water at 25m depth.
This site would meet the requirements needed for the construction of the hazardous wastes
landfill.
8. Mamedova A.P.- Department Manager of the Epidemiology and Hygiene Centre. She
informed the participants on the results of the studies carried out to determine mercury
content in the human hair. The studies proved correlative dependency between mercury
content in human hair and their working activity in the factory. The highest mercury level
wras representative for the workers of the plant, then family members of the workers and the
nearby population. High mercury content was determined in the hair of the people most
frequently using fish. This result is consistent with data reflecting mercury content in marine
products including fish and first of all beluga-fish most often used by the local population.
The floor was also given to the representatives of ministries and state organizations, local
municipalities, NGO-s, scientific-research institutes, industrial enterprises and political parties.
The representatives such mentioned in line with some questions put their proposals (questions,
answers and proposals are provided below).
The participants of the workshop highly and unanimously appreciated and approved WB policy,
State Committee on Ecology and Sumgait Executive Authority (Municipality). These
organizations and institutions contributed tremendous efforts and willingness to generate public
awareness on the project progress. They mentioned that Project importance and urgency is
dictated by complicated ecological situation in Sumgait, hazardous wastes landfill lack in
Azerbaijan including hazardous impact of the mercury to the human health. The participants of
the workshop expressed their willingness and readiness to render a required assistance to make
the Project possibly soon to be implemented.
Chainnan                             Islamzadeh Arif



-34-
List of People and Organizations Represented
Urgent Environmental Investment Project
1. Sh. Abushova -  Deputy Chairman of the "SeviI" Women Organisation.
2. N. Amahanova - Education Department, methodologist
3. H. Aloyev -    Sumgait Executive Authority Head Deputy
4. A. Efendiyev    AP EA Director of the "Polymer Materials" Institute, Professor
S. M. Salahov-    AP EA "Polymer materials" Institute, Professor
6. J. Yuzbekov-   Industrial Institute of the Azerbaijan Republic, Director of Studies,
Doctor of technical sciences
7. R. Ismaylov-    Industrial Institute of the Azerbaijan Republic, Professor, Pro-rector
8. N. Nazarov-    "Azerkimya" State Enterprise
9. M. Mamedov-   Sumgait Ecology Committee Chairman
10. S. Jamalov-   Sumgait Ecology Committee, Chief of Department
11. T. Fayrushin-   Sumgait Ecology Committee, Chief of Department
12. A. Humbatov-   Sumgait Ecology Committee, Chief of Department
13. G. Jalilov-   Sumgait Ecology Committee, Inspector
14. F. Hassanov-    State Technical Inspectorate, Senior Inspector
15. B. Askerov-   Sumgait Municipality, Department Manager
16. 1. Mamedov-    "Sinteskauchuk" factory Director, Candidate of technical sciences
17. T. Ibragimov-    "Sinteskauchuk" factory, Manager of the "Environment Protection"
Department
18. N. Tagiyev-   Sumgait, Senior Psychatrist, Candidate of Medical Sciences
19. J. Agayev-    "Kimyachi" polyclinic, Senior medical doctor, Candidate of medical
sciences
20. R. Taptigov-    "Maslek" newspaper, Editor
21. R Piriyev-    ADP Inspection Committee Chairman
22. H. Abdullayev-  National Scientific Research Health Prophylaxis Institute (NSRHPI),
Referent on science, Professor
23. T. Nabiyev-   NSRHPI, Department Manager, Candidate of medical sciences
24. M. Aliyeva-   NSRHPI, Department Manager
25. A. Mamedova-   NSRHPI, Departnent Manager, Candidate of medical sciences
26. S. Halilova -  Vocational Diseases Polyclinic, Chief Physician
27. 1. Hajiyeva-  MSF (Belgium) Representative
28. B. Agayeva-    "Taffakur" Lyceum Director
29. Z. Gasimova-   N32 Lyceum, Biology Teacher
30. M. Maharramov- Sumgait Municipality, Department Manager
31. B. Alamshahov- Sumgait Municipality, Senior Advisor
32. D. Ashurov-    Industrial Institute of Azerbaijan, Professor
33. J. Israfilov-  "Uzvi Sintez" factory, Director, Candidate of Chemical Sciences
34. V. Jafarov-AP EA "Polymer Materials" Institute, Deputy Director, Candidate of
Chemical Sciences
35. E. mamedov-    Sumgait, "Ekho Sumgaita" newspaper, Chief Editor
36. H. Kuliyeva-    Sumgait, Health Department, Senior Pediatrician
37. A. Mamedova-  NSRHPI, Laboratory manager, Candidate of medical sciences



-35-
38. A. Nasirov-   Superphosphate factory, Senior Metrologist Deputy
39. F. Allahverdiyev- "Uzvi Cynthez" factory, Engineer
40. R. Huseynov-   "Uzvi Cynthez" factory, "Environment Protection" Department
Manager Deputy
41. T. Ibragimov-   "CK" factory, Social and Environment Protection Departnent Manager
42. R. Heydarov-   Aluminium factory, Health department, Senior Doctor
43. V. Levdina-    "Taffakur" Lyceum, Teacher
44. J. Jalilbiyev-    AP EA "Polymer Materials" Institute, Doctor of chemical sciences,
Professor
45. M. Muradov-   Industrial Institute, post-graduate
46. R. Turabhanoglu- Azerbaijan Democratic Independence Party Chairman
47. D. Bayramov-   Sumgait branch of the Azerbaijan Popular Front Party, branch' deputy-
chairman
48. A. Allahverdiyev- Sumgait Senior Sanitary Inspector
49. A. Agashirin    Geology Department, Expedition Manager
50. K. Aliyeva-    "Intemews" NGO
51. M. Suleymanov- Wild Nature Fund, NGO



-36-
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS SESSION
1. R. Alekberova - Have mercury analysis been taken from the 65th facility of "Organic
Synthesis" plant that we work in?
2. John Munthe - In initial tests we did not use much analysis, it will be implemented mainly
through MONITORING system to be applied.
3. C. Mamedov - For your information I would like to say that one sample test costs US $38.
4. Sarnir - Lawyer - What aspects have been considered when choosing a disposal site nearby
Sumgait city, and how the control over technical safety rules observation by workers will be
carried out?
5. R. Muradov - Landscape was considered when choosing the disposal site and this selected
disposal site is the best option, and regarding observation of the safety rules I can say that it is
filly reflected in the project.
6. A. ][slamzade - I can add that seven sites had been proposed for the disposal site, and this
selected area is the most optimal area.
7. Doctor Tagiyev - In terms of medical norms, how far is the disposal site to be constructed is
located from the residential area?
8. B. Nord - Since there are various types of disposal sitess in the world, distances are also
differenrt, and especially from the transportation' considerations, 15 km distance was accepted.
Also I want to mention that the disposal site's's life should be long-term and it is isolated by a
waterproof membrane.
9. M. Salakhov - In 2nd paragraph 10th item of the project it is shown that dioxim analysis will
be implemented. How will the analysis be carried out through Monitoring system?
10. John Munthe - Sludge sample will be used, and sludge with an excess dioxim concentration
will be disposed of.
II. M. Salakhov - I would like to inform you that in 1989 dioxim analysis were carried out
through "Tayfun" Monitoring system in the Institute I work for.
12. A. lEfendiyev - I appeal to the project authors as well as to the World Bank representative. 15
science doctors and professors, and 80 science candidates are working at the Polymer Metals



-37-
Institute under Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences. Do not forget to use this scientific potential. No
one applies to us. I request that in your future activity you would attract our scientists as well.
13. R. Ismaylov - There are specialists in the areas of chemistry, physics, mechanics, automatics
working in our Institute. Currently problems lab is functioning. Can any problem arise in future
regarding rise of the Caspian level?
14. R Muradov - The selected disposal site is located 100 m higher than the sea level
accordingly to the landscape, and it will not face any problems in future.
15. B. Asgerov - 11 5th facility of the plant started its operation in 1982. While being in the work
regime, how is mercury clean-up to be implemented in this facility?
16. A. Islamzade - "Azerkimya" State Company has promised to shut down this facility at
"SAM' plant.
17. D. Bayramov - The project envisaged termination of production. I wonder, how much
mercury is in wastes and what methods will be used for the clean-up?
18. A. Islamzade - This issue was taken into account in the previous projects. Report on 1750
tons of mercury clean-up was received from Moscow. Accordingly to standards, quantity of
mercury in each ton is about 5-10 grams, but it is at 250 grams level in out production wastes. 62
technological clean-up schemes exist in the world. With the allocated credit it is possible to
implement only the mercury clean-up works. That's why available financial resources should be
efficiently used. Tests will be continued afRerwards too.
19. 1. Mammedov - As you know, there are several calcination methods: cement method,
bentonite method, etc. These are beneficial methods. In what composition and to what condition
will the ground waters be cleaned? How much is water concentration?
20. John Munthe - Additional substances in great concentrations will be received as a result of
calcination. Mercury will be mainly separated in sediment form. Received mercury sediment will
be transported and disposed of. Mercury concentration should be I microgram in 1 liter of water.
21. R. Piriyev -
a) What is the difference between the World Bank and other banks? What are the credit
conditions of the World Bank?
b) How far from residential area should the disposal site be located? What can be results of
natural disasters?



-38-
c) UJnder what conditions will local specialists be attracted to work in project implementation?
22. C. Mamedov - The World Bank covers 129 countries. This project is implemented based on
IDA credit. Grace period for this credit is 10 years. After 10 years annual interest will accrue at
0.75%. This is the best option and we have to efficiently use this credit resources.
23. John Munthe - There is no usual standard for how far should disposal sitess be from
residential areas. Geology Committee may answer on natural disasters. Area selected for the
disposal site is located above the sea level. Regarding attraction of local specialists, it will be
done in full. Project preparation was carried out in very short period in terms of time. Since now,
connection with local institutions will be maintained in project implementation area.
24. Y. Yuzbeyov - How will mercury be separated from wastes? As you know, mercury
fonnations, particularly, evaporated mercury are dangerous. How will you prevent this on the
disposal site?
25. John Munthe - we completely share your opinion. We will minimize the mercury evaporation
in the disposal site. Disposal site will be kept in fill isolation by special membrane. Gases will
be cleaned through filters by ventilation pipes.
26. A. Humbatov - Quantity of mercury in the project is shown to be 65,000 tons. But based on
information received from enterprises, this number is 180,000 tons.
27. This number was received from the Geology Committee, and was determined based on the
tests conducted on contaminated and sludge territories. This number was taken from initial
information.
28. D. Bayramov - If mercury content will exceed the one specified in the project, will it be
possible to proportionally increase the project amount?
29. C. Mamedov - If suppose mercury content is twice higher, it does not mean that project
amount will increase so much.
30. Kh. Guliyeva - I would like to emphasize two things. First, especial attention should be paid
to voman and children. Second, personnel involved in clean-up procedures, should get especial
food, including milk and milk products.



-39-
Appendix 3
Cost Estimate and Time Plan for the Proposed Project.
Project component   Estimated cost      Start              End
(1000 ISS$)
Excavation of sludge      881.5        99-06-15            01-05-31
basins, dewatering,
transport to landfill
Mercury recovery,          813.1       99-06-15            01-05-31
disposal of treated
soils and backfill
Sludge pump, tanks         679.9       99-03-31            99-05-31
for recovery process
Landfill construction      978.9       99-03-31            01-09-30
Geotextile for landfill,   698.8        99-10-30           01-07-31
installation
Landfill operation         504.2        99-05-30           01-09-30
Road and bridge            446.6        99-03-31            01-09-30
construction and
improvements
Environmental             1204.7        98-03-31            01-12-31
monitoring and
control, equipment,
training, site testing   .
Site testing,              117.5        98-09-30            99-06-30
engineering services  I
Project management,       1 930.1       98-09-30            01-12-31
technical support,
training landfill and
safety management,
technical supervision



FROM WORLD BANK EC31V 202WB                             (MON))08. 10' 98 14:44/ST. 14:43/NO .3560593183 P  2
.                                                                                                                    '
A                                                     ,
_, = } 1 11 1 ~~~~~~~~~~IIU  
itl



-40-
Appendix 4
Map of Mercury Contaminated Area and Proposed Site for Landfill



