Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13156-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 10, 1995
Agriculture and Urban Development Operations
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Lek
AVERAGE EXCIIANGE RATES
1987-90    1991    1992    1993    1994
US$1.00 = Leks      8       14       75       102      93
WEIGHTS ANI) MEASURES
Metric System
ALBANIAN GOVERNMENT FiSCAI, YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF         Albanian Development Fund
ASAC        Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
EU          European Union
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ha          hectare
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF         International Monetary Fund
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOLSP       Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OED         Operations Evaluation Department
PY          Project Year
RCB         Rural Commercial Bank
RDF         Rural Development Fund
RPAPP       Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
VCF         Village Credit Fund



ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY  ..........................................
CHAPTER  1. ALBANIA'S RURAL SECTOR  ................                                      ..          ..................
A.  Introduction ...................................................                                                      1
B. Recent Economic Trends ...........................................
C.  Main Features of the Rural Sector .....................................                                               2
D.  The Impact of Land Reform: Return to Subsistence Farming   ....................    3
E.  The Safety Net in Rural Areas  .......................................    3
F.  Local Government in Transition   ......................................    4
G.  Deterioration of Rural Infrastructure and Natural Resources  .....................    5
H.  Rural Credit  ..................................................                                                      6
CHAPTER II. THlE GOVERNMENT'S RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM .......    7
A.  Overall Strategy  ................................................                                                    7
B. Methodology:  A  Participatory Process Approach   ...........................                                          8
C.  The Full-Scale Project: A  Modular Approach  ..............................    9
D.  Rationale for IDA  Involvement .......................................    9
CHAPTER  mI.   LESSONS FROM  THE  PILOT PHASE   ...........                                     .................   10
A. Overview  of Pilot Phase Activities .....................................   10
B. Rural Works  ..................................................   12
C.  Credit Program    ................................................    13
D. Transfer of Technology   ...........................................   15
E.  Project Impact Study   .............................................   15
F.  Findings and Lessons Learned   .......................................   17
CHAPTER IV. THE PROJECT .............................................                                                              19
A.  Objectives ....................................................   19
B.  Project Description and Components   ...................................   19
C.  Detailed Features  ...............................................   20
D. Project Cost and Financing   .........................................   22
E.  Coordination with IDA-Financed Sectoral Projects  ...........................   24
F.  Environmental Impact .............................................   24
CHAPVER  V.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ..............                                       ....................   25
A. Project Management  .............................................   25
B. Procurement   ..................................................   27
C.  Disbursements  .................................................   29
D.  Supervision, Reporting, and Monitoring   .................................   31
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission that visited Albania in June 1994. The mission comprised
Maria Nowak (Task Manager, EC2AU); Kathryn Funk (Operations Officer, EC2AU); and Consultants Pierre
Marie Berard (Infrastructure); Konrad Ellsasser (Credit); Yves Graton (Cooperative Banking); and Jean-Marie
Collombon  (Microenterprises).   The mission was assisted by the staff of the Albanian  Development Fund,
especially by the Executive Director, Genc Juka, and the Deputy Directors. Johanna Eigen (Intern, EC2AU)
contributed to this report. Aleathea Thomas and Richard Huber (EC2AU) were responsible for document
processing. The Peer Reviewers are Alexandre Marc (EC4HR), Jacob Yaron (EMTAG), and Michael Nightingale
(MN1AG). Rory O'Sullivan is the Division Chief and Kemal Dervi§ is the Department Director.



CHAFFER VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS . 32
A. Benefits.32
B. Risks.32
CHAFFER VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION.33
TABLES
Table 1.1 Rural Land Holdings Following the 1991 Land Reform.2
Table 2.1 Estimated Full-Scale Project Costs.9
Table 3.1 Breakdown of Pilot Project Costs, as of December 1, 1994.11
Table 3.2 Pilot Project Costs, Appraisal Estimates and Projected Final Costs.12
Table 3.3 Rural Works Subprojects Underway or Completed (as of 12/1/94).12
Table 3.4 Number of Credits Disbursed per District (as of 12/1/94).14
Table 4.1 Summary of Project Costs by Component.22
Table 4.2 Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure.23
Table 4.3 Sources of Project Financing.24
Table 5.1 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements.27
Table 5.2 Estimated IDA Disbursements.30
Table 5.3 Disbursement Categories.30
FIGURES
Figure 3.1 Use of Credits (As of December 1, 1994).14
Figure 5.1 Albanian Development Fund Organizational Chart.26
ANNEXES
Annex A Government Decision to Establish Albanian Development Fund (Decision 427,
September 8, 1994)
Annex B Summary and Detailed Cost Tables
Annex C Rural Population, Villages, Farms, and Average Farm Size by District, 1993
Annex D Albanian Development Fund Manual of Procedures (Amended December 1995)
Annex E Rural Development Project: Rural Works Component
Annex F Rural Development Project: Small Credit Component
Annex G Rural Development Project: Promotion of Rural Activities Component
Annex H Implementation Schedule



ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Government of Albania
Executing Agency:   Albanian Development Fund'
Beneficiaries:       Rural inhabitants
Credit Amount:       SDR 4.1 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Forty years maturity with a ten year grace period. Credit proceeds would be lent
to the Government at the standard IDA charge.
Project Objectives:   To promote small farm and off-farm activities and help restart a rural market
economy; to repair basic rural infrastructure; and to create employment for the
rural population and inject cash resources into rural households.
Project Description:  The project is an extension of a successful pilot phase-the Rural Poverty
Alleviation Pilot Project (RPAPP, Credit 2461-ALB)-that established the Rural
Development Fund, which was subsequently transformed into the Albanian
Development Fund (ADF), and tested approaches to rural works, small credit,
and microenterprise support. The proposed Rural Development Project would
finance a core program  to extend ADF activity for three years.  Project
components are:
(a) Rural works. Evaluate, design, finance, and help implement about 190 rural
works to rehabilitate small infrastructure, such as ex-cooperative dirt roads,
village water supply or irrigation systems, schools and health centers, and
market facilities.
(b) Small-scale credit. Establish and fund approximately 135 village credit
funds in order to extend the existing village credit fund network and provide
small loans to farmers and other rural microentrepreneurs for all types of
income-generating activity.
(c) Promotion of rural activities. In coordination with village credit funds,
provide business and technical advice to approximately 600 rural
microentrepreneurs, and promote and support the creation of village animal
health associations to improve prophylaxis.
(d) Studies and local government training. Beneficiary assessment studies
would be undertaken to regularly evaluate project impact and to monitor and
guide project activities. Training and study tours would be used to help
equip local government officials with the skills necessary for promoting and
sustaining local development.
l/  The Albanian Development Fund was established by the Council of Ministers as the successor to the Rural
Development Fund (Government Decision 427, September 8, 1994).



- j; -
Envirommental
Aspects:               The project has been assigned a category "B" environmental rating, and will be
subject to environmental analysis, although adverse environmental impact is
unlikely given the small size of subprojects financed. During the pilot project,
environmental guidelines and checklists were developed and implemented for
rural works subprojects.
Benefits:              Direct and immediate benefits would flow from the 190 labor-intensive rural
works, which would create about 550,000 man-days of employment, injecting
badly needed cash resources into the economy. In addition, rehabilitation of
infrastructure-roads, water supply, irrigation, schools, and health centers-
would provide the environment for increased trade and market activity, and
would improve the quality of rural life. Direct benefits would also accrue to the
135 villages given access to small-scale credit through village credit funds, and
activities to support microenterprises would help restart small-scale agriculture
processing and off-farm activities
Risks:                 The risks of the project are minimized by its process approach, which provides
for continuous feedback and adjustment. Furthermore, project components have
already been tested during the pilot phase. The rural works component has been
shown to work well, and village intermediation has proven an effective
mechanism  to limit the risk of small-scale credit.  Activities to support
microenterprises began only recently, but risks would be limited by keeping the
size of the component small. The ADF has proven its ability to manage the
program, although there is a risk in overloading the ADF with too many parallel
projects financed by different donors.  There is also a risk of political
interference, which could increase as the project grows in size. Management and
political risks would be minimized by paying special attention to project
organization and management, as well as to written procedures and regulations.
Estimated Project Cost:
USS '000 equivalent
Project Component                Local      Foreign        Total    Percent
Ruml Works                       3,938        1,020       4,958       44
Small-Scale Credit               4,064         279        4,342       39
Promotion of Rurl Activities        92         289          381        3
Studies / Local Govt. Training      52          182         234        2
Implementation Support             990         304        1,294        12
TotalBaneCoes                 9,135        2,074       11,209     100
Physical Contingencics             457          104         560        5
Price Contingencies                195          36          231        2
Total Project Costa           9,786        2,214      12,000      107
NOTE: Figure mnay not total exactly due to rounding.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
US$ million equivalent
Local   Foreign    Total    Percent
Govenmment            1,100       100    1,200       10
IDA                   5,610      390    6,000        50
Other Donors          3,076     1,724    4,800       40
Total Financing    9,786    2,214    12,000      100
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
US$ million equivalent
FY95  FY96       FY97    FY98    FY99
Annual            0.2     1.8      1.8      1.8     0.4
Cumulative        0.2     2.0      3.8      5.6     6.0
Poverty Category:    Although not all project components contain specific mechanisms for targeting
the least well off, it is expected, given the nature of the project and its
components, that the population of project beneficiaries would have a larger
proportion of poor people than the population as a whole. Consequently, the
project would be rated as "Poverty Category: Program for Targeted
Interventions" in accordance with the provisions of OD 4.15.
Maps:                  IBRD No. 26120R (Albania country map, showing rural works and village credit
funds financed by the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project as of June 15,
1994)
IBRD No. 26121R (Albania country map, showing Rural Development Project
Districts)






ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER 1. ALBANIA'S RURAL SECTOR
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Revolution and reform have transformed Albania's rural population, changing some 400,000
collectivized agricultural worker families into a new class of private land owners whose average holding
is a very small 1.4 ha per family. While these new farmers have great potential for productivity and
income growth, they face a daunting set of obstacles. Many of their tiny new holdings are too small to
provide the food needed to feed a family unless credit is available to buy inputs and other supplies.
Roads, water supply, irrigation systems, and other rural infrastructure, already in poor shape under the
old government, were devastated during the revolution, while reforms have eliminated the rural
organizations in charge of infrastructure development and maintenance. The network of economic
infrastructure-input suppliers, transport, market and credit mechanisms-that was dominated by state-
owned enterprises is in disarray or has disappeared. In February 1993, the World Bank Board of
Directors approved the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (US$2.4 million). Described as a "project
of hope" by President Berisha, it penetrated the prevailing turmoil and economic inertia and reached out
to small farmers and entrepreneurs in Albania's most remote villages. Pilot project results to date have
been highly positive. The proposed Rural Development Project would finance a core program to extend
the activities commenced under the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project for three years.
B. RECENT ECONOMIC TRENDS
1.2    Economic Collapse. Albania is the poorest country in Europe with an estimated 1994 GDP per
capita of about US$400 (at market rates). The recent emergence from forty-five years of strict central
planning and self-imposed isolation has been accompanied by a severe economic crisis. With no
alternative economic institutions in place, the abolishment of central planning resulted in a collapse of
production unprecedented even for Eastern Europe: GDP fell by 40 percent from 1990 to mid-1992, the
Government's budget deficit ballooned to 44 percent of GDP in the first half of 1992, and inflation
spiraled to 10-15 percent a month. Once an agricultural exporter, Albania became heavily dependent on
food aid.
1.3   Stabilization of the Macroeconomic Environment. Shortly after the first fully democratic
elections in Albania in March 1992, the Government embarked on a comprehensive program of reforms.
In accordance with a twelve-month IMF stand-by arrangement, the Government's program included
stabilization measures and structural reforms to initiate the move toward a market economy. The budget
deficit was cut in half, strict monetary targets were enforced, interest rates were increased, and the
automatic extension of bank credit to state enterprises was stopped. All food and agriculture prices were
freed, save for four basic items, whose prices were increased 200-500 percent. The currency was floated,
private exchange transactions legalized, and all current account transactions liberalized.  Quick
mobilization of international aid supported the program.
1.4    After Government's adoption of this comprehensive program of reforms in mid-1992, the
macroeconomic environment stabilized: inflation fell dramatically, agricultural production increased, and
the lek remained fairly stable. In June 1993, the Government adopted a medium-term economic program



- 2 -
in consultation with the IMF and World Bank that established an ambitious program of reforms for 1993-
1996 to further reduce financial imbalances and bring about a structural transformation of the economy.
In mid 1994, the Government assessed the initial implementation of its program and, in light of the
positive results, adopted more ambitious macroeconomic objectives for 1994-97.
1.5    While further progress on a number of key structural reforms is still necessary, the
macroeconomic stabilization program has reached-even surpassed-its principle objectives. Spiraling
inflation has been reversed (1994 inflation is estimated at less than 15 percent, 1995 inflation is projected
at 10 percent), the Government's budget deficit has been slashed (14 percent of GDP estimated for 1994,
12 percent of GDP projected for 1995), and the severe fall in production has been halted-1993 GDP
growth was 11 percent and 1994 growth is estimated at 7.4 percent. The challenge now is to turn the
early success of the stabilization program into the development of a strong market economy for Albania's
3.3 million people, 60 percent of whom live in rural areas.
C. MAIN FEATURES OF THE RURAL SECTOR
1.6    Agriculture. Albania is predominately an agricultural country: the sector's contribution to GDP
was close to 35 percent during the 1980s and 41 percent in 1993. About 50 percent of the labor force
is employed in agriculture and forestry.
1.7    The main food crops are wheat and maize; industrial crops are led by tobacco, sunflower seeds,
cotton, and sugar beets. Livestock accounts for about half of the GDP added by the agriculture sector.
The production of milk, mainly from cows but also from sheep and goats, has been the principal focus
of livestock production, while meat has been seen mainly as a by-product of the dairy sector.
1.8    Agricultural production fell drastically-by 20-30 percent-over 1989-91. Once a net exporter
of agricultural products, Albania became heavily dependent on food aid. This decline resulted from many
factors, including confusion caused by the sudden dismantling of agricultural cooperatives, uncertainty
over the future of state farms, and scarcity of inputs. The agricultural sector achieved growth of 18
percent in 1992, 14 percent in 1993, and nearly 7 percent (estimated) in 1994. Shortages of inputs and
absence of adequate collection and marketing systems remain serious constraints. While Albania is no
longer dependent of food-aid imports, it is far from attaining its former status as a net food exporter.
1.9    Geography. Albania is dominated by a
north-south mountain chain encompassing almost    Table 1.1: Rural Land Holdings FoUowing
75 percent of the land area and largely unsuited to        the 1991 Land Reform
agricultural cultivation.   Arable land, some                             Average Holding per Family
700,000 ha, includes about 320,000 ha of terraced                               (ha) (1993)
land and upland valleys in the mountainous zones.    Nationwide ....   ......  1.42
The old central planning system stressed income    Coasa Districts ......  ....  1.56
equalization, using  price subsidies to  raise    Mountain Districts ............... 1.15
incomes in disadvantaged  agricultural areas.
Agricultural cooperatives and state farms were
charged for inputs and paid for production       Sourre: Ministry of Agriculture and Food
according to their location in a plains, hilly, or
mountain area. Thus, agriculture in the hilly and
mountain areas was heavily subsidized.



- 3 -
1.10   Scarcity of Land. The principal feature of the rural sector is the scarcity of land in relation to
the rural population. The average farm size per district varies from 0.5 ha in Puke District to 2.6 ha in
Kolonje; the nationwide average is 1.4 ha per family (see Table 1.1; a more detailed list is shown in
Annex C). Although a significant reclamation increased arable land from 400,000 ha in 1950 to 704,000
ha, population growth-encouraged by government policy-has been even more dramatic, and the number
of Albanians rose from 1.2 million in 1950 to 3.3 million in 1990.
D. THE INPACT OF LAND REFORM: RETURN TO SUBSISTENCE FARMING
1.11   Until 1991 agricultural production was dominated by the cooperatives, which held 76 percent of
arable land, and state farms, with 24 percent. Agricultural inputs were distributed by state enterprises,
and mechanization services were provided to the cooperatives by the state-owned machine tractor stations.
The state ensured agricultural marketing and processing.
1.12   The Government began privatizing the cooperatives and distributing their land to cooperative
workers in 1991; state farm privatization began in 1992. This land reform, which was essentially
completed in 1993, led to the creation of over 400,000 small family farms. The average allocation of
1.4 ha per family, but in six of the thirteen mountain districts it falls below 1.0 ha, far below subsistence
level. While the land reform was carried out rapidly and efficiently, nothing was done to provide the
new private farmers with working capital, except to distribute, in a very uneven way, the assets of the
cooperatives. Thus, many farms still lack basic tools and inputs.
1.13   Similar problems exist on the marketing side. Although the state collection centers (Grumbullimi)
still exist, very little private wheat production has been delivered to them since 1992. Because of the
small size of plots and the uncertain economic and institutional environment, many farmers are
subsistence-orientated and prefer to keep their wheat and make their own bread.
1.14   The impact of the land reform was, therefore, a regression toward subsistence farming. Three
steps must be taken to encourage the transition to a market economy:
(a) Employment outside of agriculture must be created to provide income to rural families and
reduce their dependency on their farm plots so that a process of consolidation into more
economic units can begin;
(b) Credit must be made available to provide rural households access to the capital they need
to develop both on- and off-farm enterprises; and
(c) Rural infrastructure must be reestablished; this must include the development of a new rural
market structure.
E. TIlE SAFErY NEr IN RURAL AREAS
1.15   Albania, like other former socialist countries in Central and Eastern Europe, had an extensive
social security system prior to the transition to a market economy: employment was guaranteed, wages
were set to reflect equity considerations rather than efficiency, prices of essential commodities were
highly subsidized, the health and education systems provided universal coverage, and most people were
eligible for pension, sick pay, maternity allowances, and other benefits. The collapse of the former
system in 1989-91 and structural adjustment reforms initiated in 1992 have resulted in the need to develop



- 4 -
a new social safety net scheme in order to shield the most vulnerable population groups from the
unavoidable costs of adjustment.2
1.16   Until recent enactment of comprehensive legislation for Ndihm2 Ekonomike (economic assistance),
the Government's approach to social assistance was piecemeal. The largest programs-a sheltered wage
scheme3 in effect until July 1992 and unemployment compensation enacted in late 1991-mainly targeted
the ex-workers of state-owned enterprises and state farms. Because these groups constitute a lower
percentage of the rural mountain population than elsewhere, the rural population benefitted
disproportionately less from  these programs.   Ex-workers of agricultural cooperatives, which
predominated in rural mountain areas, were assumed to have received land. In reality, however, many
ex-cooperative workers in rural mountain areas received plots inadequate for subsistence, almost all lack
inputs and basic tools, and some remain landless.
1.17   Recognizing the vulnerability of the rural mountain population, the Government developed in
1991 a land-based income support scheme for farm families in hilly and mountainous areas with
inadequate landholdings. The land-based compensation scheme expired when a new, comprehensive Law
on Social Assistance (No. 7710) went into effect on July 1, 1993. The Ndihme Ekonomike is
administered by municipalities and communes, funded by a block grant from the central budget. While
Ndihm, Ekonomike provides a unified legal framework for social assistance, the law does not broaden
the number of social assistance recipients in rural mountain areas.
1.18   Clearly, Albania's budget resources are too meager to provide subsidies for an extended period;
a significant change in the socioeconomic situation of the people living in the mountain areas is necessary.
Programs are needed that combine poverty alleviation with economic development while moving away
from pure subsidy programs.
F. LOCAL GOVERNMENT IN TRANSITION
1.19   In Albania's former command economy, the "local" level of government amounted to little more
than the local administrative arm of the central government, with no independent fiscal or legislative
authority. Starting in mid-1992, Albania began reassessing the relationship between central and local
government. Ultimately, significant political and administrative authority may be delegated to local
government.
1.20   There are three levels of elected government in Albania: (a) the central government, (b) districts,
and (c) bashkis (urban municipalities) and communes. Municipalities and communes together constitute
the basic unit of local government.4 In September 1992, Parliament enacted legislation providing for the
election of village chairmen, who, while not members of commune councils, are responsible for
articulating village needs to those councils.5
2/  Family members working abroad constitute an informal, but important, social safety net. An estimated 300,000 to
340,000 people send home some US$300-400 million annually.
2/  Although many state enterprises ceased to function, idle workers continued to receive obligatory guaranteed
payments.
4/  Communes and municipalities are comprised of one or more small towns or villages.
5/  There are currently 2,896 villages.



1.21   The June 1992 Law on the Functioning and Administration of Local Government (No.7572)
reorganized and gave greater powers to local governments, especially to municipalities and communes.
The number of districts was increased from 26 (in 1990) to 36, 44 municipalities were created, and the
530 "joined villages" were replaced with 318 communes. The first local elections-electing municipal
councils and their chairmen as well as commune councils and their chairmen-were held on July 26,
1992.
1.22   The Law on Prefectures (No.7608), promulgated on September 22, 1992, established the legal
basis for an additional administrative layer responsible to the central government; prefects will be
nominated and discharged by the Council of Ministers. According to the law, prefectures will coordinate
central government programs at the local level and oversee the legislative decisions of districts,
municipalities, and communes, although their precise responsibilities and powers are still not clear. The
Council of Ministers passed a decision, on July 26, 1993, on the composition of prefectures in Albania,
creating twelve prefectures, each containing between two and four districts.' There is a variance in the
population of each prefecture, and the scheme takes into account local customs and the ability to
communicate between the areas of the prefectures.
1.23   There are still many issues of local government remaining to be resolved, including coordination
between line ministries and local government; local finance; and establishment of policies and
responsibilities of local government in education, health, social assistance, privatization, judicial function,
and other areas. Redefining central and local government roles is an ongoing process. What is already
clear, however, is that local government, having no previous experience in market-economy
administration and few resources, is ill equipped to handle the responsibilities being transferred and
delegated. Local officials are coping with augmented responsibilities, inexperienced staff, limited
financial resources, and growing needs.
G. DETERIORATION OF RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES
1.24   The cost/efficiency ratio of public investment under the previous system was low for several
reasons. A lack of financial evaluation and cost-plus reimbursement for projects led to expensive and
capital-intensive technical designs. Compulsory labor led to low execution standards, while the state
enterprises carrying out the projects had high administrative costs and margins. A scarcity of budget
resources stretched the entire investment process, and led to poor maintenance that was exacerbated by
a lack of user interest in preserving what was seen as state property and a minimal investment in the
protection of natural resources.
1.25   The already poor rural infrastructure was severely damaged during the unrest in 1990, and there
was considerable scavenging of materials for private use. The present situation can be summarized as
follows:
Roads: Albania has approximately 10,000 km of rural dirt roads connecting villages and
communes, most of which need to be rehabilitated. Some roads are seasonal and cannot be used
in winter, although they are essential to the village inhabitants and for the development of
effective rural markets. These roads were previously a village responsibility and were maintained
with bulldozers from the now-defunct cooperatives.
6/ The Council of Ministers also designated 10 million Leks for prefectures for 1994. Total prefecture staff will be
180, 15 per prefecture.



- 6 -
Water Supply: A national village water supply scheme was begun in the 1980s with the goal of
supplying all villages one tap per 60 people by 1992. All but 400 of some 2 700 villages now
have systems, but a third of these systems need rehabilitation or extension.
Energy: While rural areas were electrified 20 years ago, power per household is limited to 200
watts, which is only enough to provide light. About 25 percent of Albania's 30 000 km
electricity network has been destroyed. Besides immediate repair of the electrical network, the
system's capacity needs expansion.
Irrigation: Irrigation infrastructure, which includes 313,000 ha that have been distributed to
private farmers, is one of the agricultural sector's most important capital assets. Here, also, the
dissolution of the cooperatives created an organizational vacuum. The subsector needs to be
rehabilitated, adapted to the new land structure, and reorganized on the basis of water user
associations.
Telecommunications. Albania has 1.4 telephones per 100 inhabitants, compared with 10 per 100
in Hungary and 38 in Greece. While each village had at least one telephone, a large part of the
network was destroyed during the land reform, because farmers used telephone wires to fence
their new property boundaries. At least 1,000 villages no longer have telephone access.
Schools: Most of the schools in the rural areas are in poor physical condition. Moreover, during
the unrest in 1990, around 875 village schools were damaged and about 50 burned, while in
urban areas the destruction was limited.
Market Infrastructure: Most cooperative buildings have been destroyed and there is a great need
for small marketplaces with adequate facilities for live animals and perishables, such as stalls,
weighing stations, and cleaning equipment.
Afforestation: Forests cover 1 million ha, 48 percent of Albania's land area. Forests close to
villages provided fuelwood and timber for the villages under the supervision of the cooperatives,
which controlled some 60 percent of the forests. Since the dissolution of the cooperatives there
has been no control over farmer wood cutting.
1.26   Repairing and rehabilitating rural infrastructure is both, thus, an urgent necessity and an
employment opportunity for the rural population.
H. RURAL CREDIT
1.27   The emergence of commercial banking institutions, as separate legal entities with a customer base
and staff separate from the Central Bank, is a recent phenomenon in Albania. The Bank for Agriculture
and Development (BAD) was created by Law No. 7520, dated October 16, 1991. Following its
emergence, however, BAD largely maintained its role as payment mechanism for transferring budget
resources to state enterprises, and for clearing payment between them. In effect, credit has not been
available to small farmers. Most traders, farmers, and small entrepreneurs seeking credit borrow from
family or friends.
1.28   The rural credit system  is presently being restructured.  The GOA recognizes that the
development of a rural financial system adapted to a market economy and the provision of credit for
farmers and other private entrepreneurs is a key priority, and is following two parallel approaches. First,



- 7 -
supported by the IDA Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit, it liquidated the insolvent BAD and created
the new Rural Commercial Bank (RCB) to provide loans under market conditions to private farmers and
farmers' associations, agroprocessing and transport enterprises, traders, and other rural entrepreneurs
through a network of branches and agencies. The RCB's operations began on October 1, 1993. The
privatization of RCB is presently being studied. Second, the GOA supports the creation of decentralized
village-based credit funds that offer small loans to individual farmers and other small-scale enterprises
in rural areas. These village funds provide the basis for the future development of a network of a private
cooperative banking sytem.
CHAPTER Il. THE GOVERNMENT'S RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
A. OVERALL STRATEGY
2.1    The October 1992 World Bank-EC report "An Agricultural Strategy for AlbaniaN identifies the
main short- and medium-term measures required in price and trade policy, land market, privatization of
the state farms and state enterprises, and rural finance.7 The Government has endorsed the report's
analysis, and to complement the policy changes called for in the strategy, is formulating a comprehensive
rural development approach aimed at rebuilding the rural economy - on a free-market basis-from the
bottom up. The program has emphasized poverty alleviation. This rural development approach seeks to
integrate and improve the programs already in place and develop and implement new programs to fill in
the gaps while assisting farm families through a difficult transition process. The strategy focuses on:
' Actively alleviating rural poverty: The first challenge for the Government in the rural sector
is to develop employment and food production. Even if emigration prospects improve and the
services sector expands, the rural sector will have to absorb a large part of the Albanian labor
force for at least the next few years. Given the very high land/labor ratio, this means the
development of off-farm full- and part-time activities.
* Restoring food security: While Albania is giving no consideration to returning to its old policy
of food self-sufficiency, it recognizes that incentive mechanisms, adequate physical infra-
structure, and working food processing and transport systems must be established to restart
the food production and marketing chain. Price and tariff policies that will address the problem
at a macroeconomic level must be supplemented with programs that help small farmers
intensify production of cereals and other basic foods to cover their own needs and produce
surpluses to feed the cities. A significant factor in this process will be the injection of cash
resources into the rural economy.
* Promoting the small private sector: Privatizing state enterprises will require time, capital, and
management capabilities. Privatization must be complemented by a self-employment policy
that helps people not to fall out of the employment market so that they have to be supported
by the safety net. This policy would help prepare for the coming market economy in which
most of the services up- and downstream of agriculture will be private.
7/ The IDA-financed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit is focusing on implementing the corresponding sectoral
policies supported by a hybrid loan that includes a quick disbursing component and a component allocated to
agricultural credit.



* Strengthening local governments: The main weakness of the newly created communes is their
lack of financial resources and experience in financial and economic management. Making
financial resources available for infrastructure investment responds to their immediate needs;
technical assistance and training will introduce improved approaches to project evaluation,
investment financing, and implementation and maintenance.
* Rooting rural development policies in local tradition and culture: For 45 years local
governance traditions were purposely pushed toward oblivion in favor of collectivist dogma
that have now been discredited. The credibility of the rural development policy depends on
its capacity to merge local culture and new orientations coming from the West.
2.2    This rural development strategy called for creating a transition institution that would establish and
direct labor-intensive rural works and provide small loans that meet the needs of the poorest part of the
population, while the Rural Commercial Bank expands its activities for larger loans. The Rural
Development Fund (RDF), described in paras. 3.2 and 5.2, was created for this purpose.
2.3    The main components of the program consist of demand-driven rural works for rehabilitation of
basic village infrastructure and small credits for any type of income-generating activity via village credit
funds. The overall development of Albania's financial sector is being supported by the Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, which was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on August
2, 1994 to support the restructuring and privatization of the banking system and the continued
privatization of the industrial sector. The village credit fund network fills a niche-providing micro loans
to the poorer farmers who lack access to commercial banking institutions-that is best served through a
decentralized approach based on village solidarity. A low size limit on individual subloans from village
credit funds effectively targets them to the poorest farmers, eventually creating future clients for savings
and commercial banking institutions, which are expected to provide larger loans to farmers and
microentrepreneurs.
B. METIODOLOGY: A PARTICIPATORY PROCESS APPROAChI
2.4    The Government's rural development program is being implemented in a phased way as follows:
Phase 1: Pre-pilot phase (August 1992-April 1993). Funding from the UNDP (US$200,000) and from
Freres d'Esperance (US$20,000), a French NGO, was used to finance the first village and
farm surveys and to test organizational and technical approaches for ten rural works projects
and seven village credit funds.
Phase 2: Pilot phase (effective April 1993). The on-going Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project is
financed by IDA (Credit 2461-ALB, US$2.4 million equivalent) and the EU (about US$1.85
million). An Italian Government grant of US$2.35 million subsequently augmented the
program to US$6.6 million total. Under this pilot phase, the Rural Development Fund,
subsequently transformed into the Albanian Development Fund, was established by special
decree of the Government as an autonomous agency, and about 225 rural works projects and
75 village credit funds are being implemented in Albania's poorest mountain districts.
Phase 3: Full-scale project. The proposed full-scale program, which would amount to US$22 million
over three years, according to cofinancing available, would extend the project to all rural areas
with priority given to the poorest villages and communes for the labor-intensive rural works.
Within this program, the core project-the subject of this SAR-amounts to US$12 million;



- 9 -
it would provide the basis to extend ADF activity for three years, which could be augmented
with supplemental cofinancing.
2.5    This process approach allows the program to be adjusted to local needs and constraints as lessons
drawn from  each phase are used to prepare the next one.   It also allows for-in  fact
encourages-participation by local people and institutions. During the pre-pilot phase, the organization
of the rural works and the village credit fund concept were worked out in continuous dialogue with
commune and village representatives to maximize their chances of success. This included contractual
arrangements between communes, village councils, and the Rural Commercial Bank that define their
responsibilities and the relationship between them and the project.
C. THE FuLL-SCALE PROJECT: A MODULAR APPROACH
2.6    The full-scale program, which would amount to US$22 million over three years, would finance
375 rural works and establishment of about 300 village credit funds, and would extend to all rural areas
of Albania (excluding the four districts supported by the IFAD-financed Northeastern Districts Rural
Development). Full-scale project costs are shown in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: Estimated Full-Scale Project Costs
Component                                   US$ million    Percent
Rural Works                                     9.9          45
Small-Scale Credit                              7.5          34
Microenterprise Support                         1.1           5
Studies and Local Gov't Tmaining                0.9           4
Implementation Support (Albanian Development Fund)  2.6      12
TOTAL                                          22.0         100
2.7    The full-scale program lends itself easily to a modular approach-project area and component
intensity would be increased incrementally in accordance with financing resources, and actual program
size could range from US$6.0 million to US$22.0 million. A modular approach worked well during the
pilot phase; supplemental cofinancing from the Italian Government was used to finance new project
districts. Similarly, cofinancing in excess of the US$4.8 million requested for the Rural Development
Project would be used to expand and intensify project component activity. Conversely, if less that
US$4.8 million cofinancing is secured, the program could be scaled back.
D. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.8    The project is basically an extension of a successful pilot phase. It reflects the development
priorities formulated in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Albania, as discussed by the Board
in August 1993, by addressing poverty and privatization. The CAS called for "a flexible strategy that
responds quickly to new information while maintaining an overall framework that promotes (i) stability;
and (ii) new entrepreneurship and private initiative." The project's small-scale credit and microenterprise
support components would assist in developing new entrepreneurship and private initiative, while the rural
works component would enhance stability by providing immediate and visible results. The project's
approach is flexible, allowing components to be adapted to Albania's changing environment during the
transition period.
2.9    The project would complement on-going IDA-financed projects in Albania. It provides a
complementary microeconomic and social approach to the IDA-supported Agriculture Sector Adjustment



- 10 -
Credit, and it addresses the need for rapid intervention during Albania's transition to a market-based
economy, compatible with short-term macro stabilization. The rural works component would also
complement, and is being coordinated with, three other IDA-financed sectoral projects: the proposed
Feeder Roads Project, the proposed School Rehabilitation Project, and the proposed Health Services
Rehabilitation Project. The Feeder Roads Project, for example, would finance more expensive regional
roads compared with the local dirt roads included in this project. In the case of school and health center
rehabilitation, the sectoral projects are aimed primarily at non-mountainous areas that are more conducive
to large-scale intervention. There is therefore no overlap of significance with these projects.
CHAPTER III. LESSONS FROM THE PILOT PHASE
A. OVERVIEW OF PILOT PHASE AcTrIVTIES
3.1    Summary. The Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project became effective on April 26, 1993,
following six months of pre-pilot activities and during a time of continued economic upheaval in Albania.
Despite the difficult conditions, experience under the project has been very positive to date, and
preliminary findings and conclusions of an OED performance audit are highly positive.8 As of December
1, 1994, 155 labor-intensive works subprojects in 21 districts have been financed (half of which are
completed) at an average cost of US$17,780 per subproject, and 59 village credit funds (VCF) have been
established in seven districts to disburse small loans (average size US$350) for income-generating activity.
Under the credit program, over 2,600 small credits have been granted, and loan recovery, which
commenced in November 1993, has been 100 percent to date. About 800 subloans (30 percent of
outstanding subloans) are in the process of being repaid, and 72 subloans have been entirely repaid. In
addition, activities to transfer technology (microenterprise support) are now being incorporated under the
pilot project. Two agroprocessing demonstration projects are being prepared, one of which is expected
to become operational in 1995. A project impact (beneficiary assessment) study, which was carried out
in twenty-one villages from March-May 1994, confirms that the project is viewed very positively by
beneficiaries. Pilot project activities as of December 1, 1994 are summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: Breakdown of Pilot Project Costs, as of December 1, 1994
Activity                   Disbursed      Percent
(Lek '000)    of Total
Rural Works-155 subprojects in 21 districts  174,094        54%
Small Credit-59 village credit funds in 7 districts  82,797  24%
2,647 subloans disbursed, 100% repayment
Training and Studies                           7,055        2%
Equipment and Office Rehabilitation           28,781         8%
Technical Assistance                          27,871         8%
ADF Operating Costs                           28,749        8%
Total                      349,346'       100%
Approximately USS3.5 million.
8/  An OED mission was undertaken from June 6-10, 1994 in order to evaluate the pilot project prior to the appraisal
of the full-scale project. The PPAR is expected to be presented to the Board of Directors in February 1995.



- II -
3.2    The Rural Development Fund. It was decided during the preparation and appraisal of the pilot
project that the Rural Development Program would be best implemented by an autonomous transition
agency, parallel to the government structure. At that time, however, no law on foundations existed in
Albania. Consequently, the Rural Development Fund (RDF) was established by Government Decision
No. 12 (January 9, 1993) as an autonomous agency responsible for the implementation of the pilot and
full-scale project. The RDF's decree granted it juridical personality with the authority to enter into
contracts, and with administrative, technical, and financial autonomy. Overall RDF policy was governed
by a Board of Trustees, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister. An Executive Committee, formed by the
RDF Executive Director, the Finance Director, and the Heads of Departments, was responsible for RDF
management.
3.3    The Manual of Procedures and Internal Regulations were approved by the Board of Directors at
the time of their first meeting on March 5, 1993. Internal Regulations were amended in May 1994, and
the Manual of Procedures was revised in February 1994. The Manual of Procedures was amended in
January 1995 to incorporate new aspects of the project. The Manual of Procedures is shown in Annex
D.
3.4    Project Costs and Disbursement.  From  April 26, 1993 to December 1, 1994, project
disbursements total US$2.3 million (89 percent) of IDA funds and US$1.6 million (69 percent) of Italian
trust funds. Disbursement of IDA funds has been substantially higher than appraisal estimates, which
forecast that US$1.2 million would be disbursed by June 1994 (total credit disbursement over thirty
months). Project disbursements would have been higher had it not been for periodic shortages of funds
in the Special Account and delays in cofinancing. The funding delays continued despite an increase in
the IDA Special Account from US$300,000 to US$500,000 following an amendment to the Credit
Agreement on September 30. Actual project operational costs have been lower than appraisal estimates,
which allocated 20 percent for RDF equipment and recurrent costs and 13 percent for technical assistance
(these figures do not include the extra twelve months of operational costs that were budgeted into the
project). Pilot project component costs estimated at appraisal and those projected for project completion
are shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Piot Project Costs, Appraisal Estinates and Projected Final Costs
Appraisal           Projected Final
Estimate   Percent   Project Costs   Percent
(US$'000)            (US$'000)
A. Rural Works               1,590        33        3,365        51
B. Small Credit               750         16        1,650        25
C. Studies, Technology, and   366          8         250          4
Training
D. Equipment for ADF          369          8         300          5
E. Veterinazy Equipment        n/a         0         280          4
E. Recurrent Costs            674         14         420          6
F. Technical Assistance      1,016        21         345          5
TOTAL                        4,765       100        6,610        100
3.5    Cofinancing. The RPAPP has proven to be highly replicable within Albania and a magnet for
attracting foreign aid to Albania. On December 3, 1993, the International Fund for Agriculture



- 12 -
Development approved the Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project (NDRDP), most of which
will be implemented through a northeastern branch of the ADF. The project, which was declared
effective on April 19, 1994, amounts to US$18 million over six years, of which US$13 million will be
used for ADF activities in the districts of Diber, Kukes, Has, and Tropoje; separate new activities are
therefore not needed in these districts. The World Bank is the cooperating institution.
3.6    Also, in May 1993 the Italian Government expressed its interest in cofinancing the RPAPP.
Following the conclusion of an Administrative Agreement between the Bank and the Italian Government
on November 23, 1993, and the signing of a Grant Agreement between the Bank and the Albanian
Government on March 23, 1994, an Italian trust fund has been established at the World Bank for the
disbursement of approximately US$2.35 million in Italian funds for ADF activities as an extension to the
pilot phase.
3.7    An urban counterpart to the RPAPP is also being developed. The proposed Urban Works and
Microenterprise Pilot Project, which was appraised by the World Bank in April/May 1994, would test
urban works, small credit, and microenterprise support in selected municipalities for twenty-four months.
A "pre-pilot" phase has already started using funds from the Japanese Government, the UNDP and a
Swiss NGO.
B. RURAL WORKS
3.8    Under the RPAPP, the ADF Infrastructure Department has (a) developed rural works
methodology; and (b) organized and financed 155 infrastructure rehabilitation subprojects.
3.9    Component Methodology. A demand-driven program methodology was developed whereby
villages select subprojects according to their needs, and in accordance with criteria established by the
project: economic and social impact; degree of labor intensity; and potential contribution to local
institution building. The types of projects that meet these criteria are: (a) rehabilitating communal dirt
roads, (b) repairing or extending water supply systems, (c) rehabilitating small village irrigation schemes
and adjusting them to the new landownership structure, (d) repairing and rebuilding schools and health
centers, and (e) establishing new market facilities.
3.10   Once a village selects a subproject, the commune and the village work together in preparing
project cost estimates and work plans, which are presented to ADF staff. If the subproject is approved
by the ADF and by the district (to ensure its compatibility with national programs, especially for schools
and health centers), a contract is signed with the commune defining the work program, timing, cost
estimates, and future maintenance. Where relevant, users associations and/or maintenance funds are
created to ensure adequate maintenance of the rehabilitated infrastructure for the first few years after its
completion. Supplies and contractors are selected by the communes using local bidding or shopping.
In the absence of local construction contractors, which has been the case so far, the communes directly
recruit unskilled laborers from the village's poorest families for rehabilitation work.
3.11   The commune receives periodic disbursements in accordance with the progress of the work being
carried out, and the work is closely supervised by project engineers. Commune technical staff receive
appropriate training in works planning, costing, and implementing in a market-economy environment.



- 13 -
Table 3.3: Rural Works Subprojects Underway or Completed (as of 12/1/94)
Type             Number        Quantity    Beneficiary    Subproject    Percent of
Rehabilitated    Population  Costs (Lek)   Total
Costs
Dirt Roads                  73         212 km         90,700     151,285,000      68
Potable Water Supplies      22          50 km         13,100      24,380,000      11
Schoots                     24         4,504 m2       25,200      15,391,000      7
Health Centers              22         5,090 m2       73,800      15,925,000       7
Irrigation Schemes          7           465 ha         5,800       11,992,000      5
Foot Bridges                6           391 m          6,000       2,610,000       1
Telephone Line              1           17 km.         5,700        1,760,000      3
TOTAL                      155 a/                    220,300   223,346 ,000 b/    100
a - 76 subprojects are completed. Total does not include 7 subprojects undertaken during the pre-pilot phase.
b - Approximately US$2.2 million-represents funds disbursed and fund committed.
3.12   Subprojects. As of December 1, 1994, 155 rural works subprojects have been started in twenty-
one districts (types of works are shown in Table 3.3). A total of 76 subprojects (about 50 percent) have
been completed. (In addition, seven projects were started and financed during the pre-pilot phase.) The
rehabilitated infrastructure is directly benefitting a population of 220,000, and corresponds to about
490,000 days of employment (wages have averaged 30 percent of subproject cost).
3.13   Average subproject cost is US$17,780, ranging from US$1,900 (for a foot bridge) to US$28,000
(for rehabilitating a water supply system). Low unit costs demonstrate ADF's tight budgetary control:
rural roads have averaged US$7,000 per km, and buildings have averaged US$33 per m2.
3.14   Conclusion.   Experience with the rural works component has been very positive: the
methodology developed during the pilot phase works well and subprojects are making considerable impact
at the village level. Project feedback is being used to continually adjust and improve procedures. As an
increasing number of subprojects are completed, more attention is being granted to assuring proper use
and maintenance of the infrastructure
C. CREDIT PROGRAM
3.15   Under the pilot project, the ADF Credit Department has (a) developed and tested a system to
provide small loans for income-generating activity via "village credit funds;" and (b) established and
funded 59 credit funds.
3.16   Component Methodology. A village credit fund (VCFs) is a revolving account that is made
available to a village population for small loans for income-generating activity. It is deposited in the local
branch of the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB). The VCF is managed by a village credit committee
(VCC), which is comprised of three elected village members; representatives of RCB and ADF are ex-
officio members. The VCC decides on credit allocations, defines collateral, and controls the repayment
of loans, while the RCB keeps accounts and handles money.



- 14 -
3.17   VCF size depends on village population. On average, however, VCFs total US$20,000, and
funds are typically delivered to the village in two or three tranches. The maximum loan duration is three
years, and interest must be repaid at a minimum of once per year. Maximum loan size is US$500
equivalent (in exceptional cases, they may be up to US$1,000 equivalent). Loans are fixed to the US
dollar at the time they are granted and are repaid in US dollar equivalent (to capture inflation) plus 6
percent in transaction costs to reimburse the RCB, ADF, and VCC, and provide for an emergency fund
to help borrowers facing exceptional repayment difficulties.
3.18   Loan security is maximized by bringing
loan decisions to the village level, where they are  Tabk 3.4: Credits Disbursed per District
made by neighbors who know potential creditors                (as of 12/1/94)
and who provide social support for timely          District                    No. of Credits
repayment. As an added security, in the case of    Diber.    .         .              118
repayment defaults, all credits to the village may  Elbas n ..                       1,366
be stopped.                                        Gramsh..  .                        460
3.19   VCFs Created.  As of  December I            Kruje.197
1994, 59 Village Credit Funds (VCF) have been      Tbiranzd            .      .        55
established and funded in seven districts: Diber,  Vira ..                            117
Elbasan, Gramsh, Kruja, Librazhd, Tirana, and      VTor    a       ..                 117
Vlora.   A total of 2,647 credits have been                   Totl.2,647
granted, amounting to Lek 88,153,041, or about
US$881,000 (see Table 3.4).  A total of 72
subloans (3 percent) have been completely repaid
and 798 subloans (30 percent) are in the process of being repaid. Loan recovery, which began in
November 1993, continues to be 100 percent or above, with no late payments and some payments in
advance. A total of lek 15,478,768 (about US$155,000) have been repaid (Lek 13,994,457 of capital,
Lek 1,484,311 of interest).
3.20   Loans average US$350 and range in length from nine months to almost three years, depending
on the activity financed. There has been a continual diversification of activity-during the first three
months of the pilot project (April-June 1993), 97 percent of credits were used to purchase livestock. The
overall use of credits is shown in Figure 3.1.
Figure 3.1: Use of Credits
(As of December 1, 1994)
Draft Animals -17%  Agricuftural Inpuls - 8%
- ..'A..    Mechanization - 7%
/             /                        Crafts & Services - 4%
Livestock - 59%      -



- 15 -
3.21   Conclusion.   The credit delivery system that was designed during the pilot project with the
participation of the beneficiaries of 59 villages is adapted to the needs and constraints of small farmers,
and the system is also-as demonstrated by the high level of loan reimbursement-effective in reducing
risk. Having established a working credit delivery system, several issues, including the following, are
now being addressed in order that the system becomes eventually a sustainable credit/savings network
based on a Raiffeisen model:
(a) At the beginning of the pilot phase, at a time of high inflation and disorganization of the
county's financial markets, it was decided to peg loan capital to the dollar (to capture
inflation) plus 6 percent interest to cover transaction costs. The unforeseen stability of the
lek, in the face of inflation, has resulted in relatively favorable terms for the borrowers, and
the interest rate now needs to be gradually adjusted to a lek-based rate (para. 4.8).
(b) During the pilot phase, the accounting and administration of funds was performed by the
Rural Commercial Bank, which received 2 percent for its services. The evolving nature of
the credit program and the poor performance of RCB branches calls for the establishment
of a different loan management and accounting system (Annex F).
(c) Savings mobilization, which should be gradually introduced during the next phase, requires
a clear legal status for the VCFs; while an acceptable interim legal framework now exists
(the Foundation Law), steps are now being taken to establish an appropriate legal framework
for the cooperatives (para 4.9).
D. TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY
3.22   Preparation for the transfer of technology-establishing small agroprocessing demonstration
projects in priority sectors-began in late 1993. Three projects were included in the pilot project, one
of which-a goat cheese production/demonstration unit-is expected to be fully operational in 1995.
3.23   Tregan Goat Cheese Unit.  A goat cheese production/demonstration facility, which will
introduce new technology and demonstrate new systems of supply and marketing, is being organized in
Tregan Commune of Elbasan District. A building to house the cheese processing machinery was recently
rehabilitated under the supervision of the ADF Infrastructure Department at a cost of approximately
US$21,000. The building will remain the property of the commune, in accordance with procedures
applied to rural works subprojects. Equipment, valued at approximately US$15,000, is now being put
into place to process about 500 liters of goat milk daily. Both the building and the equipment will be
rented for one year to a seven-farmer association created under commercial law (since cooperative law
does not yet exist in Albania). After the rental period, which will allow for experimentation and training,
the equipment will be sold to the association. Marketing of the goat cheese will be organized in Elbasan
and Tirana with the technical support of ADF.
3.24   The two other projects consist of fruit processing in Diber District and olive oil processing in
Vlore District. Although transfer of technology is relatively easy in itself, the subprojects have faced
institutional and legal problems typical of a transition period.



- 16 -
3.25   Conclusion.   The experience of the pilot project indicates that considerable care should be taken
before the component is expanded under the full scale project. While the concept remains excellent, the
implementation capacity in Albania to this kind of approach is clearly inadequate. Financing of such
schemes should preferably be directed through the village credit fund.
E. PROJECT IMPACT STUDY
3.26   A project impact study was carried out in April and May 1994 in twenty-one villages selected in
five districts-Elbasan, Gramsh, Kruje, Librazhd, and Diber. The sample included fifteen villages that
had experienced ADF intervention (eleven for rural works, seven for credit), and six villages that had
not experienced ADF intervention, which served as a basis of comparison. The study was carried out
by a team of nine locally recruited investigators under the direction of the ADF Studies Department and
with the assistance of two consultants.
3.27   Overall, the study confirms that the project is viewed positively by project beneficiaries. The
results are summarized below.
3.28   Regarding credit:
S Credit granted to poor families (average annual gross income of about US$100 per family
member) has been typically used for short-term productive investment, such as purchase of
small ruminants or agricultural inputs, that results in offspring or improves agricultural
production, thereby ensuring family subsistence. The credit increased farm income by 15 to
70 percent, much of which represents increased milk or food consumed by the family; it
helped to prevent poor families from falling into a vicious circle of poverty, whereby assets
are sold to provide for basic family needs. Credit has also had an important psychological
impact, because it has allowed the farmers to elaborate plans for future development of their
economic activities.
* Credit granted to better-off farmers (average annual gross income of about US$320 per family
member) has been typically used for buying cows or draft animals or for making more
substantial investments partly financed by the farmer's own resources. The increase of gross
income varies between 30 to 50 percent. The maximum level of credit (US$500) is already
insufficient for this category of population.
3.29   Villages that have received credit indicate the following results:
* Improved agricultural equipment (small tractors and draft animals);
* Greater diversification of economic activities; access to credit encouraged new ideas for
income-generating activities (such as trade and services), often benefitting the whole
community;
* The number of livestock has increased in the poorer villages; while this has helped alleviate
poverty, it could lead to overgrazing of pastures in some areas;
* The attitude of individual farmers towards money and their vision of the future is substantially
changed (the concept of investment was unknown for forty years), and their risk aversion has
been reduced;



- 17 -
* Farmers indicate that credit makes them less dependent on the state than social assistance;
* Migration in villages that received credit is reduced; and
* Creation of village credit committees has been an important step for rebuilding village
solidarity and local democracy.
3.30   As regards infrastructure:
* Each subproject employed an average of 42 people (ranging from 11 for school rehabilitation
to 120 for roads);
* The rural works succeeded in reaching the target population: wages paid for village labor
benefitted the poorest families in the village. The wages, which averaged US$68 per worker,
represented 30 to 40 percent of annual income and contributed to family subsistence but did
not lead to savings.
* Infrastructure rehabilitation had an important psychological effect on the village: it helped to
restore a sense of village community, public interest, and confidence in the future by breaking
individualistic and ultra-conservative behavior. Committees and maintenance funds have been
created by the users of the infrastructure, but follow-up is required to assure they function
well.
e Rural works reinforced the dialogue between the village and the communes and initiated a first
step in local planning by defining local priorities.
3.31   The impact has varied depending on the type of infrastructure:
* Health centers have had an immediate effect and are very much appreciated by the population.
The Government faces, however, some difficulties in covering recurrent maintenance costs.
* Schools are likely to have a long-term  impact.  Most of the population attaches great
importance to education, although some individuals have complained about the time spent by
children at school rather than tending to livestock.
* Water supply improvements have reduced the need for medical care for intestinal infections
as well as the time spent by women for transporting water. In some cases, they have also
allowed for irrigating garden crops and improving some artisanal productions, such as cheese
and raki (a local alcohol).
* Roads are viewed by beneficiaries as having the most important economic effect by breaking
the isolation of the villages. Traffic has increased, and several people in the villages have
bought a means of transport or have started new commercial or service activities. Local
production is now bought by traders who can enter the village to make purchases, as well as
to bring basic consumer items.  Synergy between road rehabilitation and credit seems
particularly important.
3.32   On the whole, the project is proving to be, as in the words of President Berisha, "a project of
hope"-helping the rural population to emerge from chaos and start rebuilding a free society and a market
economy. In this respect, the role of credit goes far beyond direct financing. It is an instrument which



- 18 -
allows farmers to make choices, helping them to make a transition from the previous situation of
cooperative worker to independent farming.
F. FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
3.33   Given the chaotic situation that existed in Albania, it was deliberately decided to focus on starting
operational activities, to learn from doing, and to train Albanian staff "on-the-job," rather than to take
the time to organize the structure from the top and to train the staff in a more formal way. This option
allowed the project to work directly with the farmers and communes from the beginning and to keep a
truly participatory approach, which is the main reason of its operational success. The process approach
has also helped reveal major differences in concepts and management that were underestimated in the
beginning.
3.34   The strengths of the project are the following:
(a)  Its research-action approach has proven an effective method for developing a flexible
demand-driven project in a transition economy, while providing for immediate and visible
results. The approach does not compromise project quality; on the contrary, it results in
more meaningful project preparation and provides for built-in project adaptability to a
changing environment.
(b)  Most project staff are highly motivated, dedicated to the project's socioeconomic objectives,
and are open to innovation and change.
(c)  The quality of rural works undertaken by communes using unemployed village labor is
fairly high, provided that project feedback is continually used to improve procedures and
adjust incentives. Using commune capacity to organize the public works, rather than
applying competitive bidding in a situation where private firms did not exist, proved a cost
effective method and had, moreover, an important training effect on the communes.
(d)  The participation of the beneficiaries in the design of the credit program led to greater
ownership anid reduced risk. In Albania, and probably other post-communist countries,
village intermediation-using village-level solidarity-can very effectively limit the risk of
small credit.
(e)  The difficulties experienced in the implementation of the first demonstration project due to
the constraint of private ownership of the common facility center imposed by the Board in
the course of action and to the lack of know how of the staff helped to reformulate the
objectives of the department and to provide lessons for its organization.
3.35   The weaknesses of the project are the following:
(a)  Although several attempts have been made to improve the financial and administrative
organization of ADF, they have not yet entirely succeeded. A long-term expatriate
consultant may be necessary to assist the Executive Director in shifting the organization to
the new scale of operations. Also, training on project management will be organized in
Albania and abroad. An improvement in ADF management is particularly crucial now that
the foundation will considerably increase and diversify its activities by implementing the



- 19 -
IFAD-financed Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project and the proposed Urban
Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project (paras. 5.2 - 5.5).
(b)  Implementation of an effective monitoring system has been blocked for about one year
because of inadequate staff in the ADF Studies Department. Favorable conditions for its
implementation now exist.
(c)  The recently-created ADF Microenterprise Department does not yet have adequate staff,
and methods and procedures have taken longer than expected to work out. Any future
microenterprise component should be designed with particular care and exclude heavy top-
down investments (para. 4.10).
(d)  Project financing has suffered from bad replenishment procedures and an inadequate Special
Account, creating periodic lack of funds. Delays in the arrival of EU PHARE cofinancing
have caused even greater financing problems. The special account needs to be enhanced
(para. 5.20).
CHAPTER IV. THE PROJECT
A. OBjECrlVES
4.1    The proposed Rural Development Project would have the following main objectives:
(a)  to promote small farm and off-farm activities and help create a rural market economy;
(b)  to repair basic rural infrastructure; and
(c)  to create employment for the rural population and inject cash resources into rural
households.
4.2    The pilot project successfully established the RDF-which was subsequently transformed by
Government into the ADF (paras. 5.2 and 5.3)-trained local staff, and tested approaches to the
implementation of the program. The Rural Development Project would provide for a core program to
support ADF activity for three years.
B. PRoJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
4.3    To support the above objectives, the proposed core project would finance the following
components:
(a)  Rural works. Organize, finance, and help to carry out approximately 190 rural works that
would rehabilitate small infrastructure.
(b)  Small-scale credit. Establish and fund approximately 135 village credit funds to extend
the existing village credit fund network and provide small loans to farmers and rural
microentrepreneurs for income-generating activity.



- 20 -
(c)  Promotion of rural activities. In coordination with village credit funds, provide business
and technical advice to approximately 600 rural microentrepreneurs, and promote and
support the establishment of village animal health associations to improve prophylaxis.
(d)  Studies and exchanges. Beneficiary assessment studies would evaluate project impact and
help guide components. Training and study tours would be organized to equip Albania's
rural local government with the skills necessary for promoting local development.
(e)  Implementation support. Finance related equipment and operational costs of the Albanian
Development Fund (ADF).
4.4    Project Area.    The Rural Development Project would support ADF activities in 14 districts,
representing the poorest and most mountainous districts of Albania's 36 districts. With the exception of
one district, Puke, the ADF is already active in the project area.The rural works component would be
implemented in 12 districts-Berat, Bulqize, Elbasan, Gramsh, Librazhd, Malesi e Madhe, Mat, Mirdite,
Puke, Shkoder, Skraper, Tirana, and Vlore-and the small credit and promotion of rural activities
components would intervene in 7 districts-Elbasan, Gramsh, Kruje, Librazhd, Puke, Tirana, and Vlore.
The IFAD-financed Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project is supporting ADF activities in four
additional districts-Diber, Has, Kukes, and Tropoje.
C. DETAILED FEATURES
Component 1: Infrastructure Works (Base Cost US$5.0 million)
4.5    The project would finance, on a demand-driven basis, approximately 190 rural infrastructure
subprojects, which would include rehabilitating ex-cooperative dirt roads, repairing or extending village
water supply or irrigations systems, repairing schools and health centers, and establishing new market
facilities. Villages would select subprojects based on established criteria. ADF staff would evaluate
subprojects and, if approved, contracts would be signed with the communes defining work programs,
timing, cost estimates, and future maintenance. Communes would then hire technical and supervisory
personnel to organize and oversee the project, drawing on the pool of technicians from the former
cooperative farms. When and where feasible, communes would select, using local shopping, construction
contractors; otherwise, communes would hire unemployed village labor to carry out the works, and would
use local shopping procedures for procuring materials and transport, which typically represent 70 percent
of total project cost (and which has been successfully demonstrated to be cost effective and efficient under
the pilot phase). ADF engineers would oversee subproject implementation and provide assistance, when
necessary. Three main criteria would be used to select subprojects: economic and social impact; degree
of labor intensity; and sustainability by local organizations.
4.6    Communes could be asked to contribute a part (5-10 percent) of subproject investment cost,
depending on circumstances. Current central budget transfers to communes for investment is minimal,
and while local government now has the ability to raise local revenues through certain taxes, these
revenues are likely to remain very small for the next few years. Accordingly, the rural works component
would provide communes and villages with urgently needed investment funds for the transition period,
allowing time for more suitable financing systems to be put into place.
4.7    Special consideration would be given to the organization of subproject maintenance. Since late
1993, the ADF has requested the establishment of a user maintenance fund as a precondition for
financing.



- 21 -
Component 2: Small-Scale Credit (Base Cost US$4.3 million)
4.8    The project would extend the existing village credit fund (VCF) network and would finance small
loans to over 9,000 farmers and rural entrepreneurs by establishing about 135 new VCFs, a system
successfully tested under the pilot project. Including VCFs established under the pilot project, the ADF
would oversee some 300 VCFs, and about 12,000 small credits would be granted in the three-year project
period. VCFs-to be deposited at the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB)-would be managed by village
credit committees (VCC), of which a representative of the ADF would be an ex-officio member. The
VCCs would decide on credit allocations, define collateral, and control the repayment of loans. During
the pilot project, given the disorganization of the country's financial markets, loan capital was pegged
to the US dollar to maintain its real value plus 6 percent interest. Under the project, loans would be
gradually shifted to a real positive lek-based interest rate. In order to provide for a transition to a lek-
based rate, the initial lek-based interest rate would be 10 percent for one year, which is the IMF projected
inflation rate for 1995.  Arrangements for the transition from a dollar-based rate to a lek-based rate,
satisfactory to the Bank, were discussed during negotiations, and the ADF Board of Trustees formally
approved these arrangements in January 1995.
4.9    The component's broader objective would be to prepare the creation of a sustainable financial
institution based on a Raiffeisen-type credit/savings system. All new credit funds established under the
project would be registered as legal entities under its existing foundation law, permitting the long-term
mobilization of savings. Savings would be gradually mobilized by the VCFs, first on the basis of a 10
percent downpayment on or reduction from the loan, and later through voluntary fixed-term deposits.
Rates of interest on savings would be kept in accordance with those for loans, with voluntary savings
remunerated at a higher interest rate than obligatory savings. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Government would finalize the post-project status of this VCF network, which takes account of
conditions at the time and is acceptable to IDA, by June 30, 1997.
Component 3: Promotion of Rural Activities (Base Cost US$0.4 million)
4.10   The  project would  organize  business  and  technical advice  to  approximately  600
microentrepreneurs via a network of some twenty local consultants, recruited among previous state sector
staff or from specialized institutes and remunerated according to their services. This advisory service
would work in coordination with village credit funds in order to create synergy-but not compulsory
interdependence-between credit and business advice. Also, the project would promote and support the
establishment of village animal health associations in order to improve prophylaxis. Other activities to
be supported under the component include marketing and technical studies for key subsectors and
establishment of a data base on small technologies.
Component 4: Studies and Local Government Training (Base Cost US$0.2 million)
4.11   Beneficiary assessment studies would be funded to evaluate project impact and to guide project
components. Studies would also help to identify obstacles to development and to root project activities
in local culture. The project provides limited seed funding for training and study tours to help equip
Albania's rural local government with the skills necessary for local development.
Component 5: Implementation Framework (Base Cost US$1.3 million)
4.12    The project would provide for the implementation of the project by supporting related equipment
and operational costs of the Albanian Development Fund, which was established as a successor to the
RDF (see paras. 3.2 and 5.2 - 5.3).



- 22 -
Technical Assistance
4.13   Project components include 37 staff-months of foreign technical assistance considered essential
for the implementation of the program; technical assistance requirements are relatively low because of
the experience already gathered under the pilot project and because some long-term consultancy positions
would be partly funded by the Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project (UWMPP). Foreign
technical assistance would include specialized credit, microenterprise support, engineering, management
and financial services, consisting of two long-term consultancies (10 months total) and short-term
consultancies (27 months total) as follows:
(a)  Rural Works Component:
* One long-term adviser/engineer (5 staff-months). An additional 11 staff-months
would be financed by the proposed UWMPP, for a total of 16 staff-months.
* Short-term consultancy (I staff-month) to address specific training needs.
(b)  Credit Component:
* Short-term consultancies (14 staff-months total) for installation of a computerized
financial accounting and information system (3 staff-months), general program
implementation (6 staff-months), and specialized cooperative banking, to help the
program evolve toward a Raiffeisen-type credit/savings system (5 staff-months).
(c)  Promotion of Rural Activities:
S Short-term consultancies (6 staff-months total) for training local advisers and
assisting with program implementation.
(d)  Studies:
- Short-term consultancies (6 staff-months total) for assistance and training in
undertaking project impact and beneficiary assessment studies.
(e)  Institutional Support:
* One long-term consultant for assistance with financial and administrative
management (5 staff-months). An additional 8 staff-months would be financed by
the proposed UWMPP, for a total of 13 staff-months.
In addition to the 37 staff-months described above, technical assistance is also budgeted for marketing
and technical studies (rural activities support component) and for project auditing. Local technical
assistance amounts to 375 months, mainly for the microenterprise advisory service and for project impact
studies. In all, technical assistance amounts to 7 percent of base costs. Consultant trust funds and other
grant financing would be sought to finance as much technical assistance as possible.
D. PRoJEcT CosT AND FINANCING
4.14   Total Project Cost. The Rural Development Project is expected to cost US$12 million over three
years, including contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$2.2 million, or about



- 23 -
18 percent of total project costs. The estimated project costs are summarized in Tables 4.1 and 4.2
below. Detailed costs are provided in Annex B.
TABLE 4.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
USS '000 Equivalent               %         % Total
Foreign       Base
Local       Foreign       Total      Exchange       Costs
A. Rural Works                     3,938        1,020        4,958         21           44
B. Small-scale Credit              4,064         279         4,342          6           39
C. Promotion of Rural Activities     92          289          381         76             3
D. Studies/Local Government          52           182         234         78             2
E. Implementation Support           990          304         1,294        23            12
Total Base Costs           9,135        2,074       11,209         19          100
Physical Contingencies              457           104         560          19            5
Price Contingencies                 195           36          231          16            2
Total Project Costs        9,786        2,249       12,000         18          107
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
TABLE 4.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
US$ '000                     %          % Total
Local       Foreign       Total       Foreign       Base
Exchange      Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                  3,929          922        4,850         19           43
B. Credit                       4,050            -        4,050           -          36
C. Equipment and Materials          3          266          269         99            2
D. Training, Study Tours           56          169          225         75            2
E. Technical Assistance           115          646          761         85            7
Total Investment Costs   8,152        2,002       10,154         20           91
II. Recurrent costs
A. Staff salaries                 512            -          512          -            5
B. Other                          470           72          542         13            5
Total Recurrent Costs           982           72         1,054          7            9
Total Base Costs    9,135        2,074       11,209         19          100
Physical contingencies               457          104          560         19            5
Price contingencies                  195           36          231         16            2
Total Project Costs          9,786        2,214       12,000         18          107
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
4.15   Cost Estimates. Project costs have been estimated in US dollars, and local costs are expressed
in US dollars at the exchange rate prevailing in July 1994 (100 Leks/US$1.00). Physical contingencies
of 5 percent have been applied to all investment and recurrent costs. Price contingencies are calculated
based on 2.2 percent for foreign exchange and local inflation of 20 percent in PYI, 15 percent in PY2,
and 10 percent in PY3. Price contingencies were not applied to investment costs for rural works or
village credit funds, because they reflect programs without precise, predetermined unit costs; any increase
in costs would result in a reduction in the cope of the program.



- 24 -
4.16   Project Financing. Of the total project cost of US$12 million, the proposed IDA credit would
finance US$6 million (50 percent of total costs), and the Government would finance US$1.2 million (10
percent of total costs).  Grant financing of US$4.8 million is currently being sought.  Possible
cofinanciers include the EU, the Islamic Development Bank, and the Italian Government-all of whom
have shown considerable interest in the pilot project (see para. 3.5)-as well as the Swiss and Austrian
Governments9. The project lends itself easily to a modular approach; additional cofinancing would
finance increased project districts and component intensity (see para. 2.6). The financing plan is shown
in Table 4.3.
TABLE 4.3: Sources of Project Financing
USS '000 equivalent
Project Component           IDA        Cofinanciers   Government of     Total
Albania
A. Rural Works                     2,325          2,884             --          5,209
B. Small-Scale Credit              2,730          1,142            700          4,572
C. Promotion of Rural Activities     110            213            100           423
D. Studies / Local Gov't Training     90            170             --           260
E. Implementation Support            745            170           400           1,536
Total Project Costs        6,000          4,800          1,200         12,000
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
E. COORDINATION WITH IDA-FINANCED SECTORAL PROJECTS
4.17   Activities under the project's rural works component would be coordinated with rehabilitation
work by sectoral projects. The ADF's demand-driven approach that empowers local communities is
expected to complement the top-down approach of these other projects. There is no significant overlap,
although there are some opportunities for collaboration, as indicated by the following:
(a) Roads. Most roads to be rehabilitated under the proposed Feeder Roads Project are higher-
volume secondary roads; only 10 percent are low-volume dirt roads-these could be
undertaken by the ADF.
(b) Schools and Health Centers. The School Rehabilitation Project will cover 20 percent of
total rehabilitation needs country-wide, so there is ample opportunity and need for additional
rehabilitation work. Also, fabrication of furniture for schools in remote areas could possibly
be organized through the project's microenterprise support component. The proposed Health
Services Rehabilitation project would finance hospital/health center rehabilitation in six
districts, three of which overlap with the ADF project area. Both schools and health centers
to be financed by sectoral projects and located in remote mountain areas where construction
contractors are unavailable could be rehabilitated using the ADF. Prior to financing school
or health center rehabilitation, the ADF currently checks with the district and ministry to
verify that the infrastructure is consistent with national priorities.
9/     As of December 1994, the Swiss Government has expressed its intention to provide 3.4 million Swiss francs (about
US$2.5 million) to cofinance the Rural Development Project.



- 25 -
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
4.18   The project has been assigned a category "B" environmental rating and will be subject to analysis,
although adverse environmental impact is unlikely given the small size of subprojects financed under the
project. During the pilot project, environmental guidelines and checklists were developed for rural works
subprojects. Although checklists were for a time not completed, they are now being used and could help
increase the environmental awareness of local government officials.
CHAPTER V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1    Elements of the Project Implementation Plan are covered in Chapters IV and V of this SAR and
in Annexes E, F, and G. Key actions and dates for implementation are provided in Annex H. The
components of the project would be implemented using the successful approaches developed under the
pilot project (Chapter III). Given the increasing responsibility of the implementing agency, management
is in the process of being strengthened and reorganized.
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
5.2   Implementing Agency. An independent agency, the Rural Development Fund (RDF), was
created by special decree of the Government in January 1993 to implement the Rural Poverty Alleviation
Pilot Project. The RDF was granted the status of a juridical person with the authority to enter into
contracts, and with administrative, technical and financial autonomy. RDF main policy and objectives
were defined and overseen by a Board of Trustees chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and comprised
of the Minister without Portfolio for Local Government, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food,
Deputy Minister of Finance, and Deputy Minister of Labor. An Executive committee, formed by the
RDF Executive Director (appointed by the Board Chairman), the Operational Department Directors, and
the Finance Director, was responsible for RDF's day-to-day management.
5.3    Government has transformed the RDF by government decree into an Albanian Development
Fund, which has authority to work in both rural and urban areas (see para. 3.7). The new government
decree is shown in Annex A. At the request of Government, the ADF Board of Trustees is now
comprised of Ministers (rather than Deputy Ministers), and the Minister of Construction will be included
among the Board members. Government would be asked to conclude, prior to project effectiveness, an
agreement acceptable to IDA under which it would pass the proceeds of the Credit to the project
implementing agency, the ADF.
5.4   Internal ADF Organization. The ADF would be the implementing agency for both the Rural
Development Project and the proposed Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project. The proposed
structure of the ADF, as discussed with senior ADF staff, is shown in Figure 5.1. Within the ADF, for
efficiency and economy, the rural and urban projects would share the following: (a) financial and
administrative management (which is being strengthened by technical assistance and training); (b)
monitoring and evaluation (the same methods would be used for both the rural and urban projects); and
(c) microenterprise and rural activities support department (methods used to support microenterprises in
rural and urban areas are largely the same, and the database and information center would be common
to both projects). The infrastructure and credit departments would operate separately for the rural and
urban projects because the projects are at different stages of development, the approaches for rural and



- 26 -
urban works are different, and the future institutional setting for the rural and urban credit programs is
different.
Figure 5.1: Albanian Development Fund Organizational Chair
Board of Trustee
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Executive Director
IMonitoring and
X__________  Studies
Finance and
Adininistration
_       ~~~Microenterprise
Support & Rural Activities
ural            Rural                                     Urban Pilot
Infrastructure                Credit                           Project
5.5   Staff. Following the creation of the ADF in September 1994, the Executive Director of the RDF
was appointed as Executive Director of the ADF. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would at all times employ an ADF Executive Director whose experience and qualifications
are acceptable to IDA. Most high-level staff positions are already filled; new high-level positions would
be mainly filled by way of internal promotion, using professionals who have demonstrated their
capabilities. Under the project, a consultant would assist the Executive Director in the transformation
and organization of the new institutional structure. Also, a position of Assistant to the Executive Director
would be established to help with internal communication and coordination.
5.6    Regulations and Operational Guidelines. The ADF's operations are governed by its Internal
Regulations and Manual of Procedures, both of which are updated periodically and approved by the Board
of Trustees. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Regulations and Operational Guidelines for
proposed project activities would be acceptable to IDA, and any changes in these manuals would only
be made in consultation with, and with the approval of, IDA. In January 1995, the ADF Board of
Trustees amended the Regulations and Operational Guidelines to incorporate the new aspects of the
project. The Manual of Procedures is shown in Annex D.
5.7    Annual Works Plans and Budgets.  Annual works plans and budgets for each project
component, which would contain specific proposals for the use of Government's contribution, would be
prepared by the ADF, and assurances were obtained at negotiations that such work plans and budgets
would be submitted to IDA for review. A date in synch with the Government's budget cycle would be
established for their annual review. In accordance with the process approach adopted by the project,



- 27 -
works plans would reflect project experience in the proceeding period. Budgets, which would be based
on appraisal estimates, would be amended where necessary to reflect changes in costs and development
policies.
B. PROCUREMENT
5.8     The project elements, estimated costs, and procurement arrangements for those elements financed
by the IDA credit are summarized in Table 5.1 below.
TABLE 5.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000 equivalent)4'
Category of Expenditure              ICB             LCB              Other            Total
----      PPmcurement Method ---------
1. Civil works                             --              --           5,093 b'           5,093
(2,300)         (2,300)
2. Equipment & materials                   --               --             290 c/             290
(200)           (200)
3. TA, training, & study tours             -                --           1,087 Al           1,087
(380)           (380)
4. Credit                                                   --           4,253 S'           4,253
(2,620)         (2,620)
5. Recurrent costs                         --               --           1,278 f'           1,278
(500)           (500)
Total                       --               --            12,000           12,000
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respoctive amounts financed by IDA.
a - Figures may not total exactly due to rounding. Amounts in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
b - Civil works (aggregate amount USS2,300,000) to be carried out using community assistance procodures, of which
about US$1,600,000 (materials and transport) to be local shopping. Construction contractors to be used when and
where feasible.
c- International shopping (aggregate US$155,000) packages estimaed at between US$20,000 and US$60,000 per
contract; local shopping (aggmegate US$30,000) packages estimated at less than US$20,000 per contract; direct
contracting (aggregate US$15,000) for copyrighted materials.
d - Services of consultants/institutions to be engaged in accordance with IDA guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
c - Livestock, minor agricultural inputs and tools, and other small equipment and materials (US$50-2,000 each) to be
procured by village credit fund borrowers in accordance with traditional purchasing practices (aggregate amount
US$2,620,000).
f - Salaries and other ADP operating costs.
5.9     The Albanian Development Fund would be responsible for overall procurement activities. ADF
staff implemented the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project and have experience in procurement; to
strengthen their procurement knowledge, key staff dealing with procurement would attend a World Bank
procurement seminar, scheduled to be held in Tirana in early 1995. Given the small value and dispersed
location of contracts to be financed, international competitive bidding is not considered suitable.
Procurement for items financed by the IDA credit would be carried out as follows:
5.10    Civil Works. Works contracts under the project consist of demand-driven public works (costing
from US$5,000-US$50,000), which are geographically dispersed over thirteen districts. The ADF would



- 28 -
sign contracts with communes for the execution of subprojects. Construction contractors do not yet exist
in most isolated rural areas of Albania, and the small size of the subprojects makes use of local
competitive bidding unrealistic. In the absence of construction contractors, these works, which consist
of materials and labor, would be organized and carried out directly by the communes, using community-
assistance procedures which are acceptable to IDA and which have proven to be both cost effective and
efficient under the RPAPP. Local shopping procedures based on comparing at least three price quotations
from local suppliers would be used by communes to procure materials, which typically represent 70
percent of subproject cost; and unemployed village labor would be directly hired by communes under
regulations and wage rates specified in their contracts with ADF and the ADF Manual of Procedures.
ADF inspectors would oversee subproject procurement and implementation; a database of the average
costs of materials, equipment, and transport, which has been compiled under the RPAPP, would assist
in monitoring local shopping procedures. When construction contractors are available and when feasible,
local shopping procedures would be used for construction (US$5,000-50,000). In the event a contract
exceeds US$50,000, local competitive bidding procedures using the Bank's standard bidding documents
prepared for Albania for this purpose would be used. During the project, the availability of local
contractors would be carefully monitored. The aggregate amount of IDA funds to be applied to works
is not expected to exceed US$2,300,000, which includes labor to be procured under direct hiring for an
estimated aggregate amount of US$700,000, and materials to be procured using local shopping for an
estimated aggregate amount of US$1,600,000.  Individual subprojects are not expected to exceed
US$50,000.
5. 11   Equipment and Materials. Contracts for equipment and materials (e.g. office and computer
equipment, furniture, small microenterprise equipment), for an aggregate amount estimated at
US$155,000, would be awarded through international shopping procedures based on comparing at least
three price quotations from suppliers from at least three eligible countries. It is expected that individual
contracts under international shopping would not exceed US$60,000. Local shopping procedures would
be used for furniture and small supplies to be procured locally for an aggregate amount estimated at
US$30,000. Individual contracts for local shopping are not expected to exceed US$20,000. Copyrighted
materials, for an amount estimated at US$15,000, would be procured through direct purchase from
suppliers.
5.12   Credit. Procurement under village credit funds, which would involve very small amounts
(US$50-2,000), typically for purchase of livestock, minor farm inputs, farm supplies, or small equipment,
would be organized by the farmers or microentrepreneurs concerned in accordance with their traditional
purchasing practices (based on obtaining several quotations from local supplies), experience with which
has been satisfactory under the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project, for an aggregate amount of
US$2,420,000.
5.13   Technical Assistance, Training, and Study Tours. Consultants for technical assistance financed
under the project would be selected in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Technical
assistance (aggregate US$300,000) would consist of specialized credit, microenterprise support,
engineering, and financial and auditing services involving consulting firms and individual experts,
consisting approximately 10 short-term consultancies of one to three months. Because the services are
in unrelated fields of expertise, it is not foreseen that contracts would be grouped into packages. In
addition, about US$80,000 aggregate for training and study tours may be procured from consulting firms
or specialized institutions.



- 29 -
5.14   Recurrent Costs. The credit would finance recurrent costs of US$500,000 consisting of the
salaries and operating costs of ADF incurred to implement the project (see para. 5.19).
5.15   Contract Review. The procurement documentation to be submitted for prior review by IDA
would include:
(a) Equipment and Materials:
- specialized equipment to be procured through direct contracting: all procurement
documentation (selection criteria, draft contract);
- contracts over US$40,000 procured through international shopping: all procurement
documentation (technical specifications, letter of invitation, evaluation report, draft contract).
(b) Consulting Services:
- contacts above US$50,000: all documentation (terms of reference, letters of invitation,
selection criteria, evaluation reports, draft contracts);
- contacts below US$50,000: terms of reference;
- amendments to consultant contracts raising the contract amount above US$50,000.
(c) Training and Study Tours:
- all documentation (plans, selection criteria, selection of institutions to provide training, cost
estimates).
All procurement procedures, including those to be used for civil works, would be specified in the ADF's
Manual of Procedures; therefore, prior review for civil works is not necessary. All contracts not subject
to prior review would be subject to selective post-award reviews by IDA.
5.16 Procurement Information to be Provided by the Borrower. The ADF would promptly inform
IDA of contract awards and procurement issues and would include the following procurement information
in its quarterly progress reports:
(a) for equipment/materials, technical assistance, and training, and study tours: status and timing
of all pending actions; and
(b) status of aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
C. DISBURSEMENTS
5.17   The proposed IDA credit of US$6 million would be disbursed over five fiscal years. The
proposed closing date for the credit would be June 30, 1999. Estimated IDA disbursements are shown
in Table 5.2.



- 30 -
Ta Le 5.2: Fwtmated IDA   sbursements
USS million equivalent
PY95       FY96        FY97        FY98        FY99
Annual            0.2         1.8         1.8         1.8        0.4
Cumulative        0.2         2.0         3.8         5.6        6.0
5.18   IDA disbursement categories are shown in Table 5.3 IDA disbursements would be based on full
documentation of expenditures for the following: (a) individual contracts for equipment and materials
above US$40,000 equivalent; (b) technical assistance; (c) training; and (d) study tours. Disbursements
for civil works, credit, recurrent costs, and equipment and materials consisting of individual contracts
below US$40,000 would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure certified by the ADF
Executive Director. The required supporting documents would be retained by the ADF for at least one
year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
This documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting IDA staff upon
request.
Table 5.3: Disbursement Categores
Amount
Items           (USS'000 equivalent)        % Financing
i. Civil works                    2,100                  100%
100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory
2. Equipment & rmaterials           180      cost), and 85% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
3. TA, training, & study Tours      350                  100%
4. Credit                         2,420              100% of credits
5. Recurrent codts                 450                   100%
6. Unalocated                      500
Total                          6,000
5.19   Recurrent costs, which would consist of operation and maintenance costs that would not be
incurred absent the project, would include: (a) maintenance and operation or rental of equipment procured
or used under the project; (b) salaries and per diems paid to ADF staff hired under the project; (c)
consumable office supplies; and (d) office rent and maintenance, utilities, and telecommunications
pertaining to the project.
5.20   Special Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the ADF would establish,
maintain, and operate, under conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account denominated in US dollars
in a local or foreign bank acceptable to IDA, to which IDA would deposit an initial amount of up to
US$1,000,000, which, based on the experience of the pilot project, would be needed to cover three
months of expenditure during peak months of project activity. Unless IDA otherwise agrees, the Special
Account would be initially limited to US$500,000 until the aggregate amount of disbursements total SDR
1.5 million (about US$2.2 million). The Special Account would be replenished as appropriate when the
undisbursed balance falls below an amount equal to 75 percent or less of the amount of the Special



- 31 -
Account. Documentation requirements for replenishment applications would follow the same procedure
as described in preceding paragraphs. In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account,
reconciled by the borrower, would accompany all replenishment requests.
D. SUPERVISION, REPORTING, AND MONITORING
5.21   The project would require intense follow up and IDA supervision, given its process approach.
IDA would undertake regular supervision missions, including field visits and spot checks of a sample of
subprojects.
5.22   Monitoring.  During the pilot phase, progress monitoring was mainly carried out by the
individual operational departments; and an impact study was carried out under the direction of the ADF
Studies Department. The project would strengthen monitoring, which would gauge progress during
implementation as well as assess the project's impact, by establishing a Management Information System
coordinated by the ADF Studies Department. The Studies Department would also undertake a project
impact (beneficiary assessment) study (paras. 3.26 - 3.32, 4.11).
5.23   Quarterly Reports. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ADF would submit quarterly
reports to IDA. Quarterly reports would include the following information by district and sector:
(a) Public Works: Rural works subprojects appraised, in execution, completed, and evaluate
ex-post, including number of beneficiaries, amounts committed and executed, average cost
per beneficiary, and the percentage of labor in the investment cost;
(b) Credit: Number and total US dollar amount of loans distributed, activities financed,
outstanding, repayment rate;
(c) Microenterprise support: Number and status of subprojects in preparation and in execution,
activities being promoted, number of beneficiaries;
(d) Studies and Exchanges: Number and types of exchanges, status of project-impact and other
studies; and
(e) ADF: Names and titles of key personnel, indicating any changes that have taken place
during the reporting period, operating costs, types of training courses organized.
5.24   Accounts and Audits. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the ADF would maintain
accounting procedures acceptable to IDA, and that private independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, would
undertake annual audits of the ADF. Not later than six months after the end of the financial year, ADF
would submit to IDA certified copies of the audit reports containing balance sheets, income statements,
and the auditor's opinion on whether the ADF is achieving its objectives in a cost-effective way and
whether internal controls are adequate to minimize the possibility of misuse of funds. Financial
statements would be presented using the standard formats shown in Operational Directive 8.30.
5.25   A separate cost-accounting system for the credit program would be developed under the project
in order to produce separate balance sheets and income statements, which would also be presented using



- 32 -
the formats shown in OD 8.30. Once such a system is in place, ADF would calculate the Subsidy
Dependency Index for the credit program on an annual basis.'"
5.26    Mid-Term  Review.  At negotiations, it was agreed that ADF and IDA  would undertake an
evaluation of the project no later than August 31, 1996.
CHAPTER VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
6.1     The project's benefits-both direct benefits and long-term  benefits-can be estimated for each
component as shown below:
Direct and Immediate Benefits                       Long-Term Benefits
Rural Works      * 550,000 man-days of employment                * Training local governments in project appraisal,
management, and maintenance, and preparing
* 190 subprojects, possibly consisting in: 61 roads,    them for their future role in local development
8 irrigation schemes, 13 schools and health
centers, 39 water supplies, etc.             0 Restoring a sense of village community
o Increased trade and economic activity
* Improved the quality of rurma life
SmaU Credit      0 135 village credit funds                      0 Changing villager mentality and developing self-
initiative
* 9,000 loans for intensification of agriculture and
non-farm activities                          * Building a sustainable village-based
savings/credit system, essential for future
economic development
Promotion of     * Assistance to 600 rural microenterprises      * Transfer of business know-how, small
Rural Activity                                                     technologies, new models of supply and
* Establishment of and support to 75 village animal    marketing organization
health associations
* Creation of a sustainable structure for village-
wide prophylaxis
6.2     The economic impact of the intervention is expected to be along the same lines as the impact
evaluated for the pilot project (paras. 3.26 - 3.32). On the whole, the project would help to break the
isolation of villages and to improve the environment of agricultural production, and would assist people
to move toward a market economy.
B. RISKs
6.3     The risks of the project are minimized by its process approach, which provides for continuous
feedback and adjustment. Furthermore, project components have already been tested during the pilot
10/ As described in World Bank Discussion Paper No. 174, 'Assessing Development Finance Institutions," by Jacob Yaron.



- 33 -
phase-the rural works component is proceeding well, and village intermediation has proved an efficient
mechanism to limit the risk of small-scale credit. Activities to support microenterprises began only
recently, but their risks are limited by the small size of the component, the demand-driven approach, and
the experience acquired during the pilot phase. The ADF has proven its ability to manage the program,
although there is a risk in overloading the ADF with too many parallel projects financed by different
donors. There is also a risk of political interference, which could increase as the project grows in size.
Management and political risks would be minimized by granting special attention to project organization
and management, as well as to written procedures and regulations.
CHAPTER VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would:
(a) appoint an ADF Executive Director and any subsequent successors during the project period
whose experience and qualifications are acceptable to IDA (para. 5.5); and
(b) finalize the post-project status of the village credit fund network and the rural works and
microenterprise/livestock support programs, acceptable to IDA, by June 30, 1997 (para. 4.9).
7.2    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Albanian Development Fund would:
(a) ensure the use of Regulations and Operational Guidelines acceptable to IDA, and any changes
in these manuals would only be made in consultation with, and with the approval of, IDA
(para. 5.6);
(b) submit annual work plans and budgets for project activities, which would include specific
proposals for the use of Government's contribution, for review by IDA (para 5.7);
(c) maintain accounting practices acceptable to IDA, and an annual audit would be undertaken
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para. 5.24);
(d) submit to IDA quarterly reports on project activities, in a format acceptable to IDA (para.
5.23); and
(e) undertake jointly with IDA a project mid-term review no later than August 31, 1996 (para.
5.26).
7.3    Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) execution of a subsidiary agreement acceptable to IDA between the Ministry of Finance and
the Albanian Development Fund, under which the proceeds of the Credit would be made
available to the Albanian Development Fund (para. 5.3).
M:AAB\RURDEV\RDPBUFF.SAR
J-2y 5, 1995






ANNEX A
Page 1 of 4
ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX A
GOVERNMENT DECISION ESTABLISHING THE ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
(GOVERNMENT DECISION NO. 427, SEPTEMBER 8,1994)
Government Decision No. 12 (January 9, 1993) established a Rural Development Fund to finance
rural works and promote economic activities through credit, studies, technology transfer, and training.
After a pilot phase, the Government decided to extend the activities of the Rural Development
Fund to urban areas. Therefore, Government Decision No. 427 (September 8, 1994) established the
Albanian Development Fund as follows:
Statute of the Albanian Development Fund
CHAPrER 1 - GENERAL
Article 1. The Albanian Development Fund, hereinafter referred to as 'the Fund," is hereby
established as a juridical person with administrative, technical, and financial autonomy.
The Fund will be under the supervision of the Council of Ministers.
The Fund shall perform its activities pursuant to this Statute and according to its Manual
of Procedures and Internal Regulations.
The headquarters of the Fund will be in the city of Tirana; the Fund may open offices
in other jurisdictions within Albania.
Article 2. The Fund's objective shall be development of less-developed rural and urban areas
through creation of employment and economic activities, infrastructure rehabilitation, and
assisting the development of the private sector. The target population of the Fund will
consist of the poorest part of the rural population and of unemployed people in urban
areas, including people receiving social assistance or unemployment benefits.
CHAPTER 2 - GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF FUND ACTIVITIES
Article 3. The Fund's objectives shall be accomplished as follows:
As regards public works:
The Fund will promote and finance infrastructure construction and rehabilitation projects,
and the construction and rehabilitation of subprojects for microenterprise development.
In rural areas, requests will be initiated by the villages and presented to the Fund by the
communes. In urban areas, requests will be presented by the municipalities. Projects
will be selected and financed by the Fund according to its Manual of Procedures.



ANNEX A
Page 2 of 4
As regards small-scale credit:
The Fund will provide small credits to farmers and microentrepreneurs who have
difficulty in accessing banks. Credit will be used to finance income-generating activities.
As regards microenterprise development:
The Fund will finance and provide business and technical advice to private
microentrepreneurs and promote demonstration projects that will (i) transfer know-how
and provide on-the-job training; (ii) transfer appropriate small-scale technology; and (iii)
organize new systems of marketing. The Fund may subsidize a part of the initial cost
of their equipment and machinery.
As regards studies, training, and exchanges:
The Fund will finance studies to provide basic information to orient the Fund's activities
and evaluate their impact.
Training will be provided to Fund staff and to professional staff associated with the
Fund's activities.
Other:
The Fund may finance other activities, and may receive funding from other donors and
organizations, for the objective of contributing directly in the development of the less-
developed areas.
Article 4. The methodology to be used by the Fund will be as follows:
Interventions of the Fund will be largely demand-driven. The Fund will practice a
participatory approach, identifying the needs and constraints of the target population and
of the local governments.
The Fund will carry out its activities by forming contractual partnerships with local
institutions, juridical or physical private persons, and individual microentrepreneurs and
producers. In the case of public works, the Fund's partners will be elected municipalities
and communes. In the case of credit, they will be village credit funds, associations of
borrowers, or individual private microentrepreneurs. In the case of microenterprise
development, they could be individual private persons or private associations.
CHAPrER 3- REVENUES AND RESOURCES OF THE FUND
Article 5. The Fund's revenues comprise:
* resources assigned by multilateral or bilateral aid programs,
* grants provided by the Government of Albania,
* domestic and foreign donations and legacies,
* resources derived from contracted soft loans,
* capital recovery from the loans granted and the interest earned,



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 4
* other revenues and income that may arise.
Article 6. The resources of the Fund are deposited in independent bank accounts in Albanian and
foreign currency.
CHAPFER 4- FUND'S ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Article 7. The governing bodies of the Fund are:
* the Board of Trustees,
* the Executive Committee
Article 8. The Board of Trustees, hereinafter referred as "the Board" shall be composed as follows:
* The Deputy Prime Minister;
* The Minister of Agriculture and Food;
* The Minister of Construction;
* The Minister without Portfolio for Local Government;
* The Minister of Labor; and
* The Director of Economic Development and Aid Coordination.
Article 9. The Board shall be chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and during his absence by
ministers in the order indicated in Article 8 of this Decree.
Article 10. The Board shall have the following duties:
* approve the polices and general guidelines regulating the Fund's activities;
* approve the Fund's annual budget;
* approve the Annual Financial Report;
* authorize negotiations and enter into agreements with the Government of Albania and
international financial institutions necessary to achieve its purposes;
- authorize negotiations to contract the loans required by the Fund for its operations;
* approve the necessary Regulations for the implementation of this Decree;
* hold ordinary meetings every three months and extraordinary meetings as often as
necessary on the initiative of the Chairman;
* all other duties assigned under the corresponding regulations.
Article 11. Meetings will be held with the attendance of at least four (4) board members and the
decisions will be taken by the majority of the votes. The Board may invite the
representatives of other public and private agencies to its meetings, who should have
voice but no vote.
Article 12. The Executive Committee shall be formed by:
* The Executive Director
* The Deputy Directors and Heads of Departments
Article 13. The Executive Director shall be named and removed by the Deputy Prime Minister and
shall meet the professional requirements related to his function. The other members of
the Executive Committee are appointed by the Executive Director.



ANNEX A
Page 4 of 4
Article 14. The Executive Director shall be the highest executive authority of the Fund and shall
have the following duties:
* hold the Fund's legal representation;
* direct the operations of the Fund and the implementation of Board decisions;
* manage the resources of the Fund;
* sign the agreement with the Government and different donors;
* select and appoint the staff;
* sign the pertinent contracts for professional and technical services;
* prepare and propose to the Board the Regulations governing the Fund's activities;
* sign the contracts with the external auditors;
* all other duties assigned by this Decree, its Regulations and Operational Guidelines.
Article 15. The Executive Committee shall have among its duties the following:
* approve or disapprove all requests for financing submitted to the Fund. For this
purpose only, the decisions of the Executive Committee shall be taken by the majority
of votes. If the votes are equal, the vote of the Executive Director will prevail;
* follow and analyze the implementation of the objective of the Fund.
Article 16. The work relations of the staff shall be regulated by the Internal Regulations of the Fund
and according to Albanian law.
Article 17. Operational costs, including technical assistance, equipment, transport and vehicles, and
other expenditures for rehabilitation, maintenance, and rent of premises, shall be financed
from the resources of the Fund.
CHAPTER 5- AUDITING
Article 18. The internal auditor is responsible for controlling the implementation of all budget, bank,
financial, and technical operations of the Fund. The internal auditor is appointed by the
Executive Director, to whom he shall directly report according to the operational
regulations of the Fund.
Article 19. The Fund shall be subject to external auditing by independent international auditors
acceptable to the World Bank. Reports from the External Auditors shall be reviewed by
the Board for the corresponding legal actions.
CIIAPTER 6 - FINAL AND TEMPORARY PROVISIONS
Article 20. The Fund should be exempt from any taxes, fees and charges, or from any other national
or local revenue contributions, present or to be established in the future.
Article 20. The life span of the Fund is extended until December 31, 2001. It may be shortened or
extended by decree, covering the life spans of the projects.
m: %alb\rurdcv\sarXannea. r



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 14
ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX B
SUMMARY AND DETAILED COST TABLES
Summary Tables
Table A:     Components Project Cost Summary
Table B:     Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
Table C:     Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
Table D:     Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Table E:     Expenditure Accounts by Years - totals Including Contingencies
Detailed Cost Tables
Table 1:     Rural Works
Table 2:     Small Credit Program
Table 3:     Promotion of Rural Activities
Table 4:     Studies/Local Government Training
Table 5:     ADF - Central Administration, Finance, Studies
Table 6:     ADF - Rural Infrastructure Department
Table 7:     ADF - Rural Credit Department
Table 8:     ADF - Rural Activities Department



Rural Develbpmwt Project
Ta  A: Componeat Proet Cost Sumuwy
%     % Totd                                     %     % Tatal
Foreign   Base                                   Foreign   Bae
Local      Forign       Totl    Ex         Costs    Local    Fogn         Total   E          Costs
1. Rural Works                      393,760.0    102,040.0   495,800.0     21      44    3,937.6   1,020.4    4,958.0       21       44
2. Small-Scale Credt                406,350.0    27,850.0   434,200.0       6      39    4,063.5      278.5    4,342.0       6       39
3. Promotion of Rural ActIties        9,200.0    28,900.0    38,100.0      76       3       92.0      289.0      381.0      76        3
4. Studies / Lcal Govennin Training   5,150.0    18,225.0    23,375.0      78       2       51.5      182.3      233.8      78        2
5. Implemetaon Suppolt               98,985.0    30,4000    129,385.0      23       12     989.9      304.0    1,293.9       23      12
Total BASEUNE COSTS                   913,445.0    207,415.0  1,120,860.0     19     100    9,134.5   2,074.2   11,208.6       19     100
Physical Contingenies                45,672.3    10,370.8    56,043.0      19       5      456.7      103.7      580.4      19        5
Price Contingencies                  34,007.0    15,244.3    49,251.3      31       4      194.8       36.3      231.1      16        2
Total PROJECT COSTS                   993,124.3   233,030.0  1,226,154.3      19     109    9,786.0   2,214.2   12,000.1       18     107



Albania
Rural Develobpent Pro*t
Table B: Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sunmrary
(Lek 000)                                      (USS 00)
%     % Total                                  %      % Total
Foreign   Base                                 Foreign   Base
Local      Forelgn     Total    Exchange  Costs    Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange Costs
1. Investrmnt Costs
A. CMI Works                        392,850.0    92,150.0   485,000.0      19      43    3,928.5     921.5    4,850.0      19      43
B. Credit                           405,000.0          -   405,000.0               36    4,050.0        -    4,050.0        -      36
C. Goods                                275.0    26,575.0    26,850.0      99       2        2.8    265.8      268.5       99       2
D. Services
1. Training and Study Tours         5,610.0    16,890.0    22,500.0      75       2       56.1     168.9     225.0       75       2
2. Technical Assistance             11,475.0    64,600.0    76,075.0     85       7      114.8    646.0       760.8      85       7
Subtotal Services                    17,085.0    81,490.0    98,575.0      83       9      170.9    814.9      985.8       83       9
Total lnvestment Costs                815,210.0   200,215.0  1,015,425.0     20      91    8,152.1   2,002.2   10,154.3      20      91
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                          51,200.0          -    51,200.0        -       5      512.0        -       512.0               5
B. Other                             47,035.0     7,200.0    54,235.0      13       5      470.4     72.0      542.4       13       5
Total Recurrent Costs                  98,235.0     7,200.0   105,435.0       7       9      982.4     72.0    1,054.4        7       9
Total BASELINE COSTS                   913,445.0   207,415.0  1,120,860.0    19    100    9,134.5   2,074.2   11,208.6       19    100
Physical Contingencies               45,672.3    10,370.8    56,043.0      19       5      456.7     103.7     560.4       19       5
Price Contingencies                  34,007.0    15,244.3    49,251.3      31       4      194.8     36.3      231.1       16       2
Total PROJECT COSTS                    993,124.3   233,030.0  1,226,154.3    19    109    9,786.0   2,214.2   12,000.1       18    107
lo



IV
Albania
Rural Development Project d
Table C: Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Studies /
Promotion         Local
Rural         SnM11-Scale       of Rural      Governm t    krplertatlon
Works           Credit          Actvite          Training        Support           Total
1. Invesment Costs
A. CMI Works                         5,092.5               -               -                -                -          5,092.5
B. Credit                                 -           4,252.5              -                -                -          4,252.5
C. Goods                                  -                -            125.8            41.6            122.9           290.3
D. Services
1. Training and Study Tours          29.2             60.4             60.9            66.6             32.6           249.8
2. Technical Assistance              87.7            258.6            236.5           151.8            102.6           837.1
Subtotal Servkis                       116.9           319.0            297.4           218.4            135.2          1,087.0
Total Inveshnent Costs                 5,209.4          4,571.5           423.2           260.0            258.1         10,722.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                                -               -                -            627.6           627.6
B. Other                                                   -               -                -            650.2           650.2
Total Recurrent Costs                       -                -               -                -           1,277.9         1,277.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                     5,209.4         4,571.5           423.2            260.0          1,536.0         12,000.1
Taxes                                  407.4               -               -                -             62.8           470.2
Foreign Exchange                     1,073.5           302.6            312.8           197.6            327.7          2,214.2



Albania
Rural Development Project
Table D: Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996           1996          1997           Total
1. Rural Works                            1,508.7       1,730.1        1,970.6         5,209.4
2. Small-Scale Credft                     1,824.0        1,687.4       1,060.2         4,571.5
3. Promotlon of Rural ActMties             156.4          152.1         114.7           423.2
4. Studies I Local Government Training      89.1           86.9          84.1           260.0
5. Impementation Support                   524.2          483.3         528.4          1,536.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                         4,102.4        4,139.8       3,758.0        12,000.1
It
to 
_ W



Albania
Rural Development Proqect 
Table E: Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '°°°)
Totals Icluding Contingencies
19t"        1996        1997         Total
1. Investmnt Costs
A. ClviM Works                         1,438.5      1,690.5     1,963.5      5,092.5
B. Credit                              1,732.5      1,575.0       945.0      4,252.5
C. Goods                                 131.7         85.8        72.8       290.3
0. Services
1. Training and Study Tours             99.6         87.5        62.7       249.8
2. Techncal Assistance                 332.1        265.2       239.8       837.1
Subtotal Services                        431.8        352.6       302.5      1,087.0
Total Invesdment Costs                   3,734.4      3,704.0     3,283.9     10,722.3
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                              168.3        210.3       249.1        627.6
B. Other                                 199.7        225.5       225.1       650.2
Total Recurrent Costs                      368.0        435.8       474.1      1,m.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                       4,102.4      4,139.8     3,758.0    12,000.1



Albania
Rural Development Project
Table 1. Rural Works
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Quantities       Unit           Base Cost             Totals including Contingencies
Unit  1996 1996 19n7 Total Cost  1996   1996   1997   Total  199    1996   1997   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Infrastucture Rehabilitation Works /a  amount                      1,370.0 1,610.0 1,870.0 4,850.0 1,438.5 1,690.5 1,963.5 5,092.5
B. Technkal Assistance
Long termr/b                     Mo       3    2    -    5    13   39.0   26.0          -   65.0   41.4   28.2        -   69.6
Shortterm (fortraining)          Mo       1    -    -    1   17   17.0          -       -   17.0   18.0        -      -   18.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                           56.0   26.0       -   82.0   59.4   28.2        -   87.7
C.Training/c                     amount                                 10.0   10.0    6.0   26.0   10.8   11.4    7.1   29.2
Total                                                                   1,436.0 1,646.0 1,876.0 4,958.0 1,508.7 1,730.1  1,970.6 5,209.4
la 63 subprojects per year C USS25,700 average cost per subproject.
\b Costs for a ong-term consuftant to be shared with the Urban Pilot Project.
\c Training (foriegn and local) for RDF staff and commune technical staff.
IV



Albania
Rural Development Project
Table 2. Small Credit Program
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Quantities       UnKt            Base Cost                Totals Including Contingences
Unit  1995 1996 1997 Total Cost  1995    1996    1997    Total   1995    1996         1997     Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Village Credit Funds /a    amount                               1,650.0 1,500.0   900.0  4,050.0  1,732.5  1,575.0    945.0  4,252.5
B. Technical Assistance        mo       4    5    5    14   17       68.0   85.0    85.0   238.0    72.2    92.2        94.2    258.6
C. Training                   amount                                 18.0   18.0    18.0    54.0    19.3    20.2        20.9     60.4
Total                                                                1,736.0 1,603.0  1,003.0  4,342.0  1,824.0  1,687.4  1,060.2  4,571.5
\a Creation of 125 VCFs-55 in PYI, 50 in PY2, and 30 In PY3.



Albania
Rural Development Project
Table 3. Promotion of Rural Activities
Detailed Costs
(US$ 000)
Quantities       Unit           Base Cost           Totals Indluding Contingencies
Unit  1996 1996 1997 Total Cost  1996   1996   1997  Total   196   1996   197    Total
L hIvesbnent Costs
A. Microbusiness Advisory Service
Local Adviers - Short Term                mo      80   80   80   240  0.25   20.0   20.0  20.0   60.0   22.0   24.6   26.5    73.1
Training /a                             anourt                                 20.0   20.0   15.0   55.0   21.4   22.3   17.3    60.9
Subtotal Microbus_nss Advisory Service                                           40.0   40.0   35.0  115.0   43.4   46.9   43.7   134.0
B. Markdeng and Technical Reserch
Marketng Studies                        anount                                 20.0   10.0      -   30.0   21.6   11.6        -    33.2
Techrcal Studies                       waout                                   20.0   10.0      -   30.0   21.4   11.1              32.5
Techndlogy Docmentai  /b               waourt                                   6.0    6.0    4.0   16.0    6.4    6.5    4.4    17.3
Subtotal Marktig and Technical Research                                          46.0   26.0    4.0   76.0   49.4   29.2    4.4    83.0
C. Veteriay Support
Equtpmentandwdcvlne                     anount                                 30.0   40.0   30.0  100.0   31.8   43.4   33.3   108.5
D. Technical Auistane                       mo       2    2    2      6   1 5   30.0   30.0  30.0   90.0   31.8   32.5   33.3    97.7
Total                                                                             146.0  136.0  99.0  381.0  156.4  152.1  114.7   423.2
la Training (bcal end fomi) of tras
\b Books, subcrpom, calogs, etc.



It
Albania
Table 4. Studies / LOcal Government Trainig 
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantfties        Unit            Base Cost           Totals Including Contingencies
Unit  1996 1996 1997 Total  Cost   1996   1996   1997   Total  1995   1996   1997   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Project h¶pact Studies
TechnicalAssistance(foreign)    mrc  2    2    2    6        17   34.0   34.0   34.0  102.0   36.1   36.9   37.7  110.7
Short-termLocalStaff       each    45   45   45   135    0.25   11.3   11.3   11.3   33.8   12.4   13.9   14.9   41.1
Logistical Costs /a       amount                                    9.0    9.0    9.0   27.0    9.6    9.8   10.0   293
Materials                 amounrt                                   4.0    3.5    3.5   11.0    4.3    3.9    4.1   12.3
Subtotal Project hTpa  Studies                                       58.3   57.8   57.8  173.8   62.3   64.4   66.6  193.4
B. M & E Training           amount                                   10.0    5.0      -   15.0   10.7    5.6            16.3
C. Local Govt Training and Study  amount                             15.0   15.0   15.0   45.0   16.1   16.8   17.4   50.3
Total                                                                   83.3   77.8   72.8  233.8   89.1   86.9   84.1  260.0
\a Car rental, etc.



Albania
Rural Development Project
Table 5. ADF - Central Administration, Finance, Studies
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities         Unit            Base Cost            Totals Including Contingencies
Unit  1995 1996 1997 Total  Cost   1996   1996    1997   Total  1996   1996   1997   Total
1. Invesent Costs
A. Office Equipment
Computers                                                each     3     -    -    3        2.5   7.5        -       -    7.5    8.0       -       -     8.0
Printers                                                each      1           -     1        2   2.0        -       -    2.0    2.1               -     2.1
Furniture                                               each                                     6.0      3.0     1.5   10.5    6.4    3.3    1.7    11.3
Subtotal Office Equipment                                                                          15.5     3.0    1.5   20.0   16.5    3.3    1.7    21.4
B. Training - Finance, Administation, Studies            amount                                    20.0    10.0       -   30.0   21.4   11.2        -    32.6
C. Technical Assistance /a                                 mo       4    1      -    5        13  52.0    13.0        -   65.0   55.2   14.1        -    69.3
D. ProjectAudit /b                                        anount                                              -    30.0   30.0       -       -   33.3    33.3
Total investment Costs                                                                               87.5    26.0   31.5  145.0   93.1   28.6   34.9   156.6
IL. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel
Executive Director                                      each      1    1    1       3        4   4.0      4.0    4.0   12.0    4.4    4.9    5.3    14.6
Internal Controller                                     each      1    1    1       3     3.25   3.3      3.3    3.3    9.8    3.6    4.0    4.3    11.9
Department Head - Finance and Studies Department         each     2    2    2       6      3.5   7.0      7.0    7.0   21.0    7.7    8.6    9.3    25.6
Sr. Accountant                                           each     1    1    1       3     3.25   3.3      3.3    3.3    9.8    3.6    4.0    4.3    11.9
Jr. Accountant                                           each      1    1    1      3        3   3.0      3.0    3.0    9.0    3.3    3.7    4.0    11.0
Personnel Officer and Procurement Officer                each     2    2    2       6     3.25   6.5      6.5    6.5   19.5    7.2    8.0    8.6    23.8
Studies/Monitoring Dept. Staff                           each     2    2    2       6        3   6.0      6.0    6.0   18.0    6.6    7.4    7.9    21.9
Secretaries /c                                           each     4    4    4    12        2.5  10.0    10.0   10.0   30.0   11.0   12.3   13.2    36.5
Driver                                                   each     1    1    1       3      2.5   2.5      2.5    2.5    7.5    2.8    3.1    3.3        9.1
Subtotal Personnel                                                                                 45.5    45.5   45.5  136.5   50.1   56.0   60.2   166.3
B. Per Diemr/Hotel                                        amount                                   10.0    10.0   10.0   30.0   11.0   12.3   13.2    36.5
C. Vehicle Operating Costs                                 each      1    1    1      3        8   8.0      8.0    8.0   24.0    8.8    9.9   10.6    29.2
D. Office Supplies                                       amount                                     6.4     6.0    6.0   18.4    7.0    7.4    7.9    22.3
E. Utilities                                              amount                                    5.0     5.0    5.0   15.0    5.5    6.2    6.6    18.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                74.9    74.5   74.5  223.9   82.3   91.7   98.6   272.6
Total                                                                                               162.4   100.5  106.0  368.9  175.4  120.3  133.5   429.2
\a Costs for a long-term consultant to be shared with the Urban Pilk Project.
\b Cost for audit for PY1 and PY2 budgeted under Urban Pilot Project.
Xc Includes cashier/filer for Finance Department.
IV
oat
f 0



Albania
Rural Developent Prcqect
Table 6. ADF - Rural Infrastrctur De*.
Detalbd Coats
(USS 000)
Quanties         Unit            Ba  Cost             Totals Including Contingenies
Unit  1995 19  1997 Total Cot  1906   1M    1997   Totl   1990   1996   11n7   Total
L kivestnuent Codts
A. Offlie Equipment
Comptr                         each      2    -    -    2   2.5    5.0          -      -    5.0    5.3        -       -    5.3
Prhbtr                         sech      1    -    -    1    2        20        -      -    Z0      2.1       -       -    2.1
Copier                         each      I    -           1    3      3.0       -      -    3.0    3.2        -       -    3.2
Misc. Small Equimt            amot                                    2.0    2.0    2.0    6.0    2.1       2.2    2.2    6.5
Total h    vwestmnar Costs                                               120      2.0    2.0   16.0   12.7      2.2    2.2   17.1
N. Recurren Coats
A. Personel
Depatme Heed                   each      1    1    1      3   3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5   10.5    3.9        4.3    4.6   12.6
Deputy Dqutn Head               ach      1    1    1      3  3.25     3.3    3.3    3.3    9.8    3.6       4.0    4.3   11.9
Work Inspectors                each      7    7    7    21      3    21.0   21.0   21.0   63.0   23.1    25.9   27.8   76.7
Secretary                      each      I    1    1      3   2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    7.5    2.8    3.1    3.3    9.1
Drvr                           each      4    4    4    12   2.5   10.0   10.0   10.0   30.0   11.0    12.3   13.2   36.5
Subtotal Personnel                                                     40.3   40.3   40.3  120.8   44.3    49.6   53.3  147.1
B. PerDiem/Hotel                arnout                                 16.0   16.0   16.0   48.0   17.6    19.7   21.2   58.5
C. Vehicle Operahg Costs         each      4    4    4    12    8    32.0   32.0   32.0   96.0   34.3    35.9   37.2  107.4
D. Vehicle Rental               amount                                 25.0   25.0   25.0   75.0   27.5    30.8   33.1   91.4
E. Offce Supplies               amournt                                10.0   10.0   10.0   30.0   11.0    12.3   13.2   36.5
Total Recuffent Costs                                                   123.3  123.3  123.3  369.8  134.7   148.3  157.9  440.8
Total                                                                    135.3  125.3  125.3  385.8  147.4   150.4  180.1  457.9



Albania
Rural Development Project
Table 7. ADF - Rural Credit Dept.
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities      Unft             Base Cost               Totals Including Contingencies
Unit  1996  1996 1907 Total Cost  1996    1996    1997    Total   196    1996    1997    Total
1. h_wsnt Costs
A. Ofel EquIpment
Portbl compAuer/prtrunwlb    each     9    3    3    15   3.5    31.5    10.5    10.5    52.5    33.4    11.4    11.6    56.5
SotwAre                     amout                                   5.0     1.0     1.0     7.0     5.3      1.1     1.1     7.5
Misc. Smal Eqipmret         anmont                                  2.0     2.0     2.0     6.0     2.1     2.2      2.2     6.5
Total kwesbnit Cos                                                     38.5    13.5    13.5    65.5    40.9    14.6    15.0    70.5
L 1Recurrui Costs
A. Pronom
Deqbnt Hed                   ech      1    1    1    3   3.5        3.5     3.5     3.5    10.5     3.9     4.3     4.6    12.8
ReglimdOfflows               each     1    2    2    5  3.25        3.3     6.5     6.5    16.3     3.6      8.0    8.6    20.2
Acoourtrt                    each     2    2    2    6    3         6.0     6.0     6.0    18.0     6.6      7.4     7.9    21.9
CredOtficent                 eech     8   11   15   34    3    24.0    33.0    45.0   102.0    26.4    40.6    59.5   126.6
C_hoffeo                     ech      4    6    8    18  2.75    11.0    16.5    22.0    49.5    12.1    20.3    29.1    61.5
Secrtaly                     ech      1    1    1    3   2.5        2.5     2.5     2.5     7.5     2.8      3.1    3.3      9.1
Dwter                        ech      2    2    2    6   2.5        5.0     5.0     5.0    15.0     5.5     6.2     6.6    18.3
Suhtad l Pesonne                                                     55.3    73.0    90.5   218.8   60.8    89.9   119.7   270.4
B. Per Dem / Hotl             wnount                                 20.0    20.0    20.0    60.0    22.0    24.6    26.5    73.1
C.Vdehl.OporatngCosts          each     2    2    -    4    8    16.0    16.0           -    32.0    17.6    19.7       -    37.3
D. Vehicle Rental             amourit                                9.0    13.0    17.0    39.0      9.9    16.0    22.5    48.4
E. Office Supplies            amount                                  5.0     5.0     5.0    15.0     5.5     6.2     6.6    18.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                                 105.3   127.0   132.5   364.8   115.8   156.4   175.3   447.5
Total                                                                 143.8   140.5   146.0   430.3   156.6   171.0   190.3   517.9
_ 



V
Albania
Rural Development Project                                                              _
Table 8. ADF - Rural Actbvies Dept.
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Quantites        Unit            Base Cost              Totals ncluding Contingencies
Unit  1995 1996 1997 Total Cost  1996    1996    1997   Total   1996   1996   1997   Total
1. investment Costs
A. Office Equiprent
Compuers                each     2     -    -    2   2.5    5.0                  -     5.0    5.3       -       -     5.3
Printr                  each     1    -    -    1    2         2.0       -       -     2.0    2.1       -       -     2.1
Misc. Small Equipment    amount                                2.0     2.0    2.0      6.0    2.1    2.2    2.2       6.5
Total investMe  Costs                                              9.0     2.0    2.0    13.0    9.6    2.2    2.2    13.9
II. Recurent Costs
A. Personnel
Departentr Head         each     1    1    1       3   3.5    3.5      3.5    3.5    10.5    3.9    4.3    4.6    12.8
Staff                   each     2    2    2       6    3      6.0     6.0    6.0    18.0    6.6    7.4    7.9    21.9
Driver                  each     1    1    1    3   2.5    2.5         2.5    2.5      7.5    2.8    3.1    3.3       9.1
Subtotal Personnel                                              12.0    12.0   12.0    36.0   13.2   14.8   15.9    43.9
B. Per Dierm/ Hotel      amount                                 10.0    10.0   10.0    30.0   11.0   12.3   13.2    36.5
C. Vehbie Operatng Costs   amount                                8.0     8.0    8.0    24.0    8.8    9.9   10.6    29.2
D. Office Supplies       amount                                  2.0     2.0    2.0      6.0    2.2    2.5    2.6       7.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                             32.0    32.0   32.0    96.0   35.2   39.4   42.3   116.9
Total                                                             41.0    34.0   34.0   109.0   44.8   41.6   44.6   130.9



ANNEX C
Page I of 1
ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL POPULATION, VILLAGES, FARMS AND AVERAGE FARM SIZE BY DISRICT, 1993
Rural     Number of   Number of   Arable Land   Average Farm
Population   Villages    Farms       Area (ha)    Size (ha)
.,',',,',',"',',,,,,,,,,.,.,,,.'''-""""'''"'~~~~~.  .......  . . . ,  ....   .;.   ,, !.g. ...
Berat                91,660        120      20,324        35,522         1.75
Kucove               15,612         15       3,139         5,503         1.75
Durres               59,840         61       16,283       26,405         1.62
Kavaje               59,500         63      13,237        25,134         1.90
Elbasan             118,855        174      25,471        39,221         1.54
Pegin                27,656         49       6,060         8,523         1.41
Fier                131,838        108      34,471        57,031         1.65
Mallakaster          34,867         37       6,852        14,134         2.06
Kruje                35,748         41      10,730        15,231          1.42
Lac                  18,082         22       5,855        10,228         1.75
Lezhe                53,125         63      12,670        18,583         1.47
Lushnje              89,239        113      25,637        51,136         1.99
Sarande              25,755         51       9,546        15,359         1.61
Delvine              20,146         48       6,367        10,466         1.64
Shkoder             120,426        135      29,240        30,243         1.03
Malesi e Madhe       48,650         55       11,810       15,255         1.29
Tirana              137,046        148      31,191        33,103         1.06
Vlore                86,666         99      26,218        37,812         1.44
Korca               102,089        149      23,902        47,000         1.97
Devoll               34,377         44       7,904        15,975         2.02
:.  ,   "   c ......  . . .. .....     ..  ..........j. 2   ..  
Diber                94,199        138       25,071       19,365         0.77
Bulqize              37,830         60      11,897         8,091         0.68
Gjirokaster          40,430         95      10,251        17,693         1.73
Gramsh               33,960         92       6,549        10,360         1.58
Kolonje              16,011         75       4,334        11,260         2.60
Kukes                62,564         90      13,300        11,416         0.86
Has                  24,100         29       4,306         6,492          1.51
Librazhdi            82,464         73      13,573        15,519         1.14
Mat                  60,406         85       12,600       14,123         1.12
Mirdite              39,294         80       10,328        6,318         0.61
Permet               30,026         96       5,917        14,723         2.49
Pogradec             49,518         72      12,057        17,506         1.45
Puke                 39,775         74      10,476         5,165         0.49
Skrapar              21,930        101        6,063       12,141         2.00
Tepelene             35,822         76        7,955       13,055         1.64
Tropoje              35,162         65       11,114        7,390         0.66
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Food, May 1994






ANNEX D
Page 1 of 41
ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX D
MANUAL OF PROCEDURES
OF THE ALBANIAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
PART I. GENERAL OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES
SECTION A: OBJECTIVES OF RDF
This Procedures Manual (the Manual) provides operational guidelines and general administrative
procedures for activities to be carried out by each department of the Albanian Development Fund (ADF),
as specified in Article 1 of the Internal Regulations of ADF. The Internal Regulations of ADF contains
detailed administrative procedures.
General Objectives
1.1    ADF's objective is the development of Albania's less-developed areas through employment
creation and economic activities, infrastructure rehabilitation, and assisting in the emergence of a private
sector. The target population of ADF is the poorest part of the rural population and the unemployed in
urban areas, including those receiving social assistance or unemployment benefits.
Rural Works Projects
1.2    ADF will promote and finance, through grants, labor-intensive rural infrastructure construction
and rehabilitation projects. Projects shall be initiated by the villages and submitted to ADF by the
communes. ADF shall enter into contractual partnerships with local institutions such as elected commune
councils, elected village committees, or other bodies. In each case, contracts shall make provision for
the operations and maintenance of public works projects. ADF shall select and finance projects according
to principles and procedures set out in Part B of this Manual.
Credit Projects
1.3    ADF will promote and establish village credit funds to finance small loans to farmers and other
rural residents for all types of income-generating activity. ADF's contractual partners shall be elected
Village Credit Committees. ADF's activities in this field shall be carried out according to principles and
procedures set out in Part C of this Manual.



ANNEX D
Page 2 of 41
Promotion and Support of Rural Activities
1.4    ADF will assist in the development of rural activities by promoting professional associations,
including animal health associations for village-wide prophylaxis, and by providing demand-driven
technical and business advise and essential materials to farmers and microentrepreneurs, according to
principles and procedures set out in Part D of this Manual.
Studies and Training
1.5    ADF will monitor the progress and impact of its activities, and will carry out studies in the
project's intervention area to assess the new situation of the rural areas, evaluate the impact of the
project, and orient the activities of ADF. ADF will also organize training for its staff and for local
government staff. Part E of this Manual covers principles and procedures for ADF's respective activities
in these areas.
SECTION B: WORKING PRINCIPLES OF ADF
Autonomy
1.6    Relations between ADF and the Government are governed by the Decision of the Albanian
Council of Ministers establishing ADF. The Board of Trustees is ADF's regulating body, and no other
authority can influence or override ADF's choices of activities, apart from laws and regulations generally
applicable to legal persons under private law.
Inpartiality
1.7   In its relations with third parties, such as communes, villages, village credit funds and sub-
contractors, ADF shall practice no form of discrimination or preferential treatment and will exclusively
apply the decision-making criteria and selection procedures described in this Manual. In order to avoid
potential conflicts of interest, ADF staff cannot hold any interest in enterprises, or exercise any
responsibility in the public or private institutions, that are maintaining commercial relations with ADF,
as set out in Article 9 of ADF's Internal Regulations.
Transparency
1.8    Based on the provisions in this Manual, ADF shall seek to put in place transparent and
controllable procedures that are simple and streamlined, but at the same time flexible enough to enable
ADF to carry out its wide range of activities.
Cost-Effectiveness
1.9    ADF shall seek to maximize, and monitor closely, the achievable benefits of its activities within
ADF's budget constraints. Cost-effectiveness must be an important working principle and criterion for
all of ADF's decisions.



ANNEX D
Page 3 of 41
Sustainability of the Credit System
1.10   ADF shall charge interest rates and fees that will cover the full transactions costs of all parties
involved in providing rural credit under the village credit fund system. Furthermore, interest rates should
be positive in real terms, and, in the long term, a savings scheme should achieve ownership of village
credit funds by beneficiaries.
Annual Work Plan and Budget
1.11   Each ADF department shall present to the Board of Trustees for approval an Annual Work Plan
and Budget, to be agreed by participating donors. The Annual Work Plan and Budget may be adjusted
during the year with the agreement of the Board of Trustees and participating donors.
Environmental Consciousness
1.12   The appraisal criteria set out in this Manual for selecting rural works and credit projects explicitly
refer to environmental considerations in project design and implementation. ADF's engineers and credit
officers are required to take into account the impact of prospective projects on the physical, biological
and social environment of the concerned villages.



ANNEX D
Page 4 of 41
PART II. - RURAL WORKS SUBPROJECTS
SECTION A: ELIGIBLE REGIONS AND PROJECTS
Regional Distribution
2.1    During the full-scale stage of ADF's operations, rural works subprojects shall be extended
progressively to all districts of the country, with priority given to the poorest areas.
2.2    Funds for rural works projects shall be assigned in two stages: In the first stage, funds are
allocated to the districts; in the second stage, funds are then allocated to the communes within each
district. The allocation of funds to districts and communes is performed such as to target a larger share
of resources towards the poorest families. The formula to be used for both stages of distributing funds
is a poverty index, or marginality index. This index takes into consideration:
(a)    arable land per capita among the rural population (ex-cooperative members and state farm
workers). The more arable land is available per rural inhabitant, the more likely are
families to satisfy their subsistence requirements, and less funds for rural works will be
allocated to the respective district or commune;
(b)    the percentage of arable mountainous and hilly land per district. Mountainous and hilly
land is less fertile and farmers living in these districts have less access to inputs (such as
water, seeds, pesticides, and fertilizer) and face higher costs to transport their produce
to distant markets. More funds for rural works will be allocated to these districts, and
to communes in mountainous and hilly areas within these districts.
(c)    the official unemployment rate per district.  Districts and communes with high
unemployment will be assigned a larger portion of funds for rural works. However, this
criterion will have a smaller degree importance in allocating funds than the two criteria
described above.
2.3    Allocation of funds will also take into account the amount invested previously in the
district/commune, and constraints imposed by donors. In addition, the motivation and interest of
communes in undertaking rural works is taken into account, as well as the ability and efficiency of
communes in carrying out previous contracts for ADF rural works.
2.4    Further information on the methodology used to determine distribution of funds among districts
is provided in Attachment 1.
2.5    Detailed budget plans for distributing funds to rural works projects in districts shall be elaborated
for each year. These plans can be revised after the first 6 months of the respective year, and allocations
of funds to districts and communes can be changed. However, these changes may not affect more than
25% (plus or minus) of the budget allocated per district at the beginning of the respective year.
2.6   In any given commune, ADF shall initially finance only one rural works subproject in order to
test the commune's motivation and implementation capacity. Additional projects may be approved if the
preceding works have been completed satisfactorily, and the final payment by ADF has been made.



ANNEX D
Page 5 of 41
Distribution by Sector
2.7    ADF sets its priorities for selecting rural works subprojects in the various public works sectors
in accordance with its key objectives: to improve rural infrastructure, create employment and provide
support to local government and organizations. Given these objectives, rural works subprojects financed
by ADF will be mainly oriented towards the following sectors and project types:
(a)    repairing communal dirt roads and small bridges;
(b)    rehabilitating village irrigation and drainage schemes;
(c)    extending and repairing existing water supply and village sewerage systems; in some
cases, completing water supply investments started before 1991;
(d)    repairing or reconstructing schools and health centers;
(e)    building or repairing market facilities; and
(f)    pilot subprojects, such as installing hydraulic rams in small irrigation schemes and
rehabilitation of idle land into pastureland.
2.8    Projects with lower priority, because of their lower overall impact given ADF's key objectives,
are repairs of electricity and telephone networks, and afforestation and water/soil conservation.
2.9    These sectoral priorities shall be reviewed and revised annually, based on the needs expressed
by communes and villages, and depending on technical and financial considerations.
Distribution by Project Size
2.10   Average project size shall be estimated in the ADF Infrastructure Department Annual Work Plan
and Budget, to be agreed by the Government and participating donors. ADF shall not finance rural
works projects with total costs exceeding US$40,000 equivalent. If certain projects require larger
amounts of financing, the respective infrastructure project should be divided into several independent,
consecutive project phases such as not to exceed the set size limit, and each project phase would have to
be completed before a related following project phase could be started.
2.11   The size limit of rural works projects shall be reviewed periodically and, if necessary, altered.
Public versus Private Projects
2.12   ADF shall provide financing for public works projects only. However, private infrastructure
projects that are linked to the public works to be undertaken and financed by ADF can be included into
project design and implementation. Examples include small private access paths to public roads, and
privately-owned water canals to public water supply networks or public irrigation/drainage systems. In
these cases, private works projects will be dealt with as follows:
requested private infrastructure works shall be clearly identified, specified and separated
from public works at initial project design;



ANNEX D
Page 6 of 41
private works shall be carried out together with ADF-financed public works in order to
ensure high quality, identical technical standards and compatibility of all works
performed;
ADF shall finance the cost of performing the public portion of the works. The commune
will pre-finance the cost of the private works portion, and will then seek reimbursement
for the respective expenses from the private beneficiary.
SECTION B: PROJECT APPRAISAL CRITERIA
Project Selection
2.13   Rural works subprojects presented to ADF for financing shall meet the following criteria:
(a)    subprojects shall have a high social and economic impact in improving rural public
infrastructure;
(b)    subprojects shall rely less on heavy equipment and emphasize labor intensive techniques
in their implementation, although heavy equipment may be used if not replaceable by
manual labor or if such equipment permits an improvement in the sustainability of the
project or a decrease in associated operational and recurrent costs;
(c)    subprojects shall provide support to local government and organizations;
(d)    subprojects shall focus on repairing existing infrastructures rather than financing new
investments; however, this rule may be waived when a new investment: (i) is badly
needed by the rural population; (ii) is simple to carry out; (iii) is technically better than
the partially existing infrastructure; (iv) preserves the biological and social enviromnent;
and does not exceed the limit of project size specified in the Manual.
(e)    to the extent possible, subprojects shall have a high local material content. Exceptions
are possible for projects with large social impact requiring imported equipment and parts,
such as water supply projects;
(f)    subprojects shall be designed and be implementable such as to preserve the physical,
biological, and social environment;
(g)    subprojects shall encourage the active participation of women in the communes and
villages concerned; and
(h)    subprojects shall be simple, avoid  administrative  complexity, and  should  be
implementable within one year.
2.14   ADF staff shall assign weights to each of these subproject selection criteria and develop a scoring
system for selecting rural works projects. If the volume of eligible projects presented to ADF exceeds
ADF's administrative and financial capacities, this scoring system shall be applied to pre-select rural
works projects for subsequent detailed evaluation.



ANNEX D
Page 7 of 41
Project Evaluation
2.15   Each rural works subproject selected for subsequent appraisal shall undergo separate technical,
environmental, economic and financial evaluations by ADF staff.
Technical Design
2.16   Rural works subprojects shall be evaluated according to standard engineering and other technical
specifications. Technical design shall be done by local technicians (usually at the district level) with the
assistance of ADF inspectors, using the design models established by ADF. The following technical
guidelines shall be used in project design.
-     Roads will be only earth roads, 6.5m maximum width when possible (including shoulders
and drainage ditch). Special attention will be paid to road drainage (ditches and related
pipe culverts); compacting will be undertaken when possible.
-      Irrigation will be based on rehabilitation of the existing works, improvement of
distribution networks (field outlets) and minimizing water losses (lining of the canals).
Priority will be given to small gravity networks. The key question in irrigation works
will be the Water User Association which will be the local partner, and creation of such
associations will be a prerequisite for ADF intervention.
-     Water supply: Only small gravity village networks will be repaired or extended, based
on public fountains (averaging one fountain per family). When public fountains do not
exist, they may be installed; when they already exist, they may be rehabilitated and, if
technically and financially acceptable, extended. If villages request private taps, it must
provide the necessary pipes before the commencement of the subproject. Most of the
works will concern repairs and/or completion of existing galvanized steel pipes networks,
but new materials such as polyethylene pipes may be tested.
-      Schools: repairs (or construction) will be done according to the norms of the Ministry of
Education. As far as possible, small enterprises and local craftsmen (brick layers,
carpenters), will be hired.
Environmental Evaluation
2.17   In order to assure that rural works projects have no adverse impact on the environment, ADF
staff shall carry out environmental assessments of rural works projects in accordance with ADF's
Environmental Guidelines and Checklists. Such Guidelines shall be reviewed and changed when
necessary, with the agreement of the Board of Trustees and participating donors.
Economic Evaluation
2.18   Economic rates of return on different rural works projects are difficult to estimate, given the
present uncertainty related to domestic price and tax levels. ADF staff shall therefore estimate expected
project benefits through an analysis of the impact of investments financed on the village economy and on
the standard of living of the affected population. This assessment shall be made through brief surveys
carried out before and after project execution.



ANNEX D
Page 8 of 41
2.19   The evaluation of benefits shall concentrate on the number of village inhabitants benefitting from
the proposed rural works. The amount of additional income generated, either through direct employment
during the works or through utilization of the infrastructure created, shall also be estimated by ADF staff.
Specific economic evaluation criteria for different types of rural works projects will include:
-      for rod: the projected use by additional traffic at different seasons of the year (number
of pedestrians, cars, trucks);
-      for irrigation projects: the number of benefitting farmers, the amount of additional water
supplied at different seasons of the year, and degree of effective organization reached for
the local Water User Association;
-      for water suXl2   projects: the quality of water, the number of benefitting households,
and the average time required to retrieve and transport water from a public fountain;
-      for school projects: the number of benefitting students and classes, and the average time
required to reach the school from the parents' home.
2.20   Furthermore, ADF staff shall utilize the following ratios to evaluate whether expected benefits
will be achieved in a cost efficient way:
(a)    cost per man/month employed;
(b)    unit cost (per km of road, per liter of water, etc.) for each type of rural works project;
(c)    investment cost per capita and/or per beneficiary;
(d)    percentage of labor in the total investment cost.
2.21   These unit costs shall be used to establish standard profiles and prototypes for each different kind
of rural works projects and shall help define maximum and minimum parameters generally acceptable.
Financial Evaluation
2.22   Projects presented to ADF must provide a detailed project cost budget, revealing the breakdown
of total cost including the following positions:
(a)    material cost: types of inputs required, unit cost, amounts required, total cost per type
of material, contingencies, timetable showing at what project stage materials are needed;
(b)    salaries: types hired workers required, unit cost, hours of labor required, total labor
cost, contingencies, timetable showing at what project stage which labor input is needed;
(c)    other contracted services (such as transport): types, cost, contingencies, and timetable.
2.23   ADF staff shall carefully review all assumptions made on costs and project timing and propose
necessary changes such as to assure that projects can be carried out within a realistic and enforceable cost
budget and time-frame.



ANNEX D
Page 9 of 41
SECTION C: PROCEDURES FOR PROJECT PROCESSING
Promotion by ADF
2.24   ADF's rural works activities are fully demand driven, with the initiative being taken by
communes and villages. Infrastructural Department promote ADF's services by informing communes
and villages in qualifying districts about the type of rural works projects to be financed by ADF. This
promotion campaign should be carried out through visits by ADF staff to the respective districts and
communes. In order to promote activities at the national level, the ADF may place advertisements in
newspapers and broadcast announcements on radio and television.
Request from the Village/Commune
2.25   Each village will establish a list of potential subprojects by organizing a village meeting. At the
commune level, village chiefs will meet to discuss the subprojects, and the commune will present the
priority subprojects to ADF. All subprojects will be filed within ADF's rural works subprojects database,
and the priority subproject will be subject to a feasibility study.
Appraisal of Subprojects
2.26   All requests for financing of eligible subprojects should result in technical visits of the respective
village by ADF engineers. In case of large numbers of requests, subprojects may be pre-selected for
subsequent visits, and for detailed evaluation, based on the criteria for project selection set out in this
Manual. During their technical visits, ADF engineers will verify the information contained in the request
for financing and gather additional information if required. ADF engineers will meet with the village
committee, the commune representative, the designer, the (potential) contractor and the local technical
supervisor of the proposed project and will verify, at the district level, the subproject's selection criteria.
2.27   ADF engineers will inquire about prices of material and labor in the respective region and will,
progressively, build up a comprehensive cost database for the entire country. Unit cost tables will be
prepared, and updated regularly, on a regional basis for the most representative types of rural works
projects financed by ADF. Given the diversity of prices on local markets, this will allow for effective
cost control of projects to be financed. ADF's collection and dissemination of price information on a
nationwide basis will also have a positive effect on the organization of local markets. ADF engineers will
also establish a list, by district and commune, of artisans and small entrepreneurs who correspond to
ADF's quality requirements.
2.28   After compiling all required information, ADF engineers will evaluate each eligible (and pre-
selected) rural works subproject following the evaluation criteria set out in this Manual.
2.29   Subprojects shall be part of existing master plans established by the state and/or district, and ADF
shall inform and collaborate with the relevant ministries.
Subproject Approval and Contract Signing
2.30   On the basis of the appraisal report presented by the appraising ADF engineer, ADF's Executive
Committee approves, rejects or request modifications of the rural works subproject. Contracts between



ANNEX D
Page 10 of 41
ADF and communes, approving the allocation of ADF funds for subprojects, shall be drafted. Contracts
need to be signed by ADF's Executive Director, or by the person designated by the Executive Director
for signature, and by the chairman of the commune. Within the financial limits set by the contract, the
commune then signs agreements with subcontractors for labor, equipment, and materials. In the case that
works are subcontracted to a private enterprise, a contract will be signed by the enterprise and the
commune, using a model contract provided to the commune by ADF.
2.31   The two conditions for ADF financing and signing of the contract are that:
(a)    an infrastructural committee has been established, comprised of the commune chief,
commune treasurer, president of the users' committee, and commune technician; the
infrastructural committee is in charge of assuring the technical and financial
implementation of the subproject;
(b)    a users' committee has been established, comprised of a president (elected by the village),
commune treasurer, village technician (elected by the village). The establishment of a
two-year maintenance fund is obligatory before the commencement of the subproject.
The maintenance fund is managed by the users' committee and the infrastructural
committee.
Counterpart Financing
2.32   Counterpart financing of at least 5% of investment cost should normally be required by ADF to
ensure that good quality projects are presented by the communes, that the cost of the projects is as low
as possible, and that projects will be sustainable beyond ADF financing. Given the severe lack of local
investment budgets in Albania , the requirement for such a contribution may be waived.
Worker Selection
2.33   Workers are selected by village councils on a voluntary basis along the following criteria:
(a)    workers shall be inhabitants of the village concerned;
(b)    workers shall have the minimum legal age;
(c)    priority shall be given to workers coming from the poorest families in the village
concerned;
(d)    only one member per family will be employed.
2.34   If the subproject is undertaken by a private enterprise, the enterprise shall recruit unskilled labor
on the basis of the same criteria (para. 3.10 (a)-(d)).
Salaries and Fees
2.35   For manual labor, the salaries to be paid on ADF-financed subprojects will be defined according
to unskilled sectoral market rates. In the case of subprojects where the social and overall economic
impact is more important than the employment generating effect of the works to be carried out, salaries



ANNEX D
Page 11 of 41
will be below market rates in order to allow for a contribution of the village to the financing of the
project. This may be the case for water supply and school repair subprojects, especially in lowland areas
where an additional cash income is not an absolute necessity.
2.36   The preparation of subprojects will be considered as in-kind contribution by communes.
Technical supervision will be remunerated according to the actual amount of time spent by local
technicians and engineers, but shall be limited to an amount of US$100 equivalent. ADF will limit
administrative expenses and profit margins allowed under projects. Such margins should, however, be
adequate to interest qualified contractors and ensure quality of works.
Procurement
2.37   ADF shall contract with the commune. In most cases, the commune shall directly carry out the
subproject, using local shopping procedures-comparing the price of at least three offers-for the
purchase of all materials, transport, and equipment rental. In some cases, the commune may subcontract
the entire subproject to a private enterprise using local shopping procedures and sample bidding
documents provided by ADF. ADF engineers will train and assist communes in applying and
documenting procurement procedures.
Disbursements
2.38   Disbursements by ADF will be undertaken as follows:
(a)    When the commune carries out the subproject:
-     one advance payment, calculated on the basis of supplies, labor and contracted
services, of not more than 40% of the total estimated project cost;
*     medium term payment(s), made on the request of the commune according to the
actual expenses, and justified by certified invoices as described below. When
asking for medium term payment, the commune will set up a revised cost
estimate of the works according to actual works done and prices paid on inputs.
Both advance and medium term payments will not exceed 80% of the revised
cost;
-     final payment, equal to the difference between the total cost according to the
actual expenses of the commune, and all previous payments made by ADF.
Expenses need to be justified by certified invoices. The final payment will be
made after (i) successful completion and operation of all works agreed under the
contract; (ii) provision of acceptable assurances for safeguarding and maintenance
of the works by the village council. Reductions in final payments can be made
by ADF depending on the quality and amount of works actually performed;
-     in special cases, when the commune is not financially able to complete the
project without a third payment, and if the commune guarantees to complete the
work within one month, a third payment no greater than 10% of the revised cost
estimate may be provided.



ANNEX D
Page 12 of 41
(b)    When a private enterprise is the subcontractor for the subproject, payments will be made
in three tranches, according to terms stipulated in the contract between the commune and
the enterprise. The subcontractor shall provide a 5% guaranty.
2.39   For purchased materials, equipment and services, ADF disburses against detailed and certified
invoices presented and signed by the commune infrastructural committee, the commune chairman, the
president of the users' committee, and the technical supervisor. For labor costs, ADF will make
payments against payrolls. The commune will keep records and provide all receipts and justifications for
expenses related to the works. In the event of changes in costs, quantities, or works, the commune shall
obtain the prior approval of ADF. If the subproject is undertaken by an enterprise, disbursement
procedures shall be stipulated in the contract.
Supervision of Projects
2.40   Although communes are responsible for technical supervision of works carried out in their
villages, ADF engineers will visit all projects in execution on a regular basis to check progress and
quality of works done. For that purpose, ADF staff will design and implement a follow-up system that
will assure that approved rural works projects receive periodical visits. Each engineer employed by ADF
will be responsible for covering one specified region or group of districts in the country. According to
the disbursement mechanism specified above, at least two technical audit missions by ADF staff will be
required for each project: (i) before medium term payments, and (ii) before final payment.
Breaking of Contracts
2.41   ADF reserves its rights to break the contract if the commune as the contract partner fails to fulfill
its duties or it appears that the works cannot be properly carried out in due time and cost. In these cases,
a detailed account of the expenses will be made and delivered goods and supplies will remain the property
of the ADF, the commune being responsible for them by keeping them in safety until the ADF decides
on their new allocation. Moreover, if the failure comes from the side of ADF's contractual partner, such
as the commune, it will lose eligibility for any further funding from ADF.
Sustainability and Cost Recovery
2.42   In most project cases, maintenance of the new local infrastructure will be the responsibility of the
commune. When necessary, creation of maintenance councils and maintenance funds may be required
to ensure the sustainability of projects. Cost recovery should be considered for certain projects, such as
water supply where user fees should be progressively introduced with the framework of general tariff
reform.
Infrastructure Department Records
2.43   In order to monitor and record the history of program development, the ADF Infrastructure
Department shall maintain a file containing all sample contracts and other documents used in processing
projects. All versions of such documents shall be maintained in the file; all changes to documents shall
be carefully recorded. This file shall be available to Government and participating donors upon request.



ANNEX D
Page 13 of 41
SECTION D: STAFF REQUIREMENTS
2.44   The rural works department of ADF will require the employment of two categories of technical
staff: infrastructure field inspectors who will be in charge of identifying and supervising rural works
projects, and chief inspectors in charge of coordinating field inspectors.
2.45   Staff will be recruited through announcements in the media and selected according to professional
experience and basic tests. To complement their technical backgrounds, infrastructure and chief
inspectors will be trained by ADF in the fields of local organization and intervention in rural areas.



ANNEX D
Page 14 of 41
ArrACHMENT 1
TARGETING METHODOLOGY FOR RURAL WORKS PROJECFS
Objectives
The Rural Development Fund (RDF) will operate in all areas of rural Albania. However, RDF
will target and allocate a larger than proportional share of resources towards the poorest families. An
index of marginality is used to identify the districts where the poorest families reside, and to rank the
districts into 4 poverty categories.
Thereafter, RDF's resources for rural works projects are divided among the districts on a per
capita allocation basis, weighted in favor of the poorest districts. This allocation process will then be
repeated to divide the resources allocated to single districts among the various communes of each selected
district.
Selection of Variables
The poverty index used is based on the arable land per rural capita, weighted by the percentage
of plain, hilly and mountain arable land. As a first component to this indicator, the amount of arable land
per capita among the rural population (ex-cooperative members and state farm workers) is measured.
The larger the per capita availability of arable land, the more likely a family will be in a position to
satisfy their subsistence requirements and produce a marketable surplus.
Second, the percentage of arable mountainous and hilly land per district is taken into
consideration. This criterion reflects the level of poverty in a district as mountainous and hilly land is
less fertile, and farmers living in these districts have less access to inputs (especially water, pesticide and
fertilizer) as well as higher transactions costs to market their produce.
It needs to be noted, however, that the unemployment rate, as a potential third indicator of rural
poverty has not be taken into consideration for the following reasons:
-      respective data are not accurate since available July 1992 unemployment rates were not
properly constructed as some districts included only individuals receiving social
assistance;
-      unemployment data are not yet available at the commune or village level, such that a
budget allocation between communes could not be carried out with the same methodology
used at the district level.
Once reliable unemployment information will be available in the required detail, RDF staff should
incorporate the rate of unemployment into the methodology for targeting RDF's rural works funds.
Methodology
Topography index
The Table 1 shows the actual arable area (in ha) per district with a breakdown between plains,
hilly and mountainous areas. These data are based on the previous borders of districts in Albania, wbich



ANNEX D
Page 15 of 41
have been changed recently. RDF staff will adjust the data used in this Attachment 1, and recalculate
the distribution of RDF's budget resources for rural works projects among districts in the country, once
updated data according to the new district structure become available.
In order to take into account the lower fertility of hilly and mountainous fields, the following
weights have been used to calculate the weighted arable land per district: a coefficient of 100% for
plains, of 75% for hilly areas, and of 50% for mountainous areas. A Topography Index has been
calculated as the ratio of weighted arable land per district, expressed in percent of the total arable land
in the respective district.
Arable land per capita
In a second step, weighted arable land is being set in relation to the total rural population within
each district. As shown in Table 2, the national average for arable land per capita is equal to 0.27 ha,
with the highest value of 0.47 ha per capita in the Kolonje district, and the lowest value of 0.06 ha per
capita for the Puke district.
Marginality index
The marginality index is a correction factor which is introduced in order to allocate a larger than
proportional share of resources (on a per capita basis) to the poorest districts. For this purpose, districts
are ranked and divided into 4 categories of poverty, according to their arable land per capita, as shown
in Table 2. Marginality indexes in the form of weights between 120% for the poorest districts and 80%
for the better-off districts are assigned to districts in each poverty category.



ANNEX D
Page 16 of 41
TABLE 1
District           Plains       Hilly        Mountains   Total    Weighted   Topogr&phy
Index
PUKE                 680         4018          467         5165          3927        76%
MIRDITE             1263         3849          1206         6318         4753        75%
TROPOJE             1118         4097         2175          7390         5278        71%
KUKES               3581         9621         4722        17924         13158        73%
KAT                 1810         7690         4633         14133         9894        70%
DIBER               9613        11241         7636        28490        21862         77%
LIBRAZHDE           2841         8238         3410        14489         10725        74%
BERAT                151        17613        14250        32014        20486         64%
GRANSH              1128         5101         4133        10362          7020        68%
TIRANE              9516        17739         5864        33119        25752         78%
ELBASAN            11979        23487        12278        47744        35733         75%
TeEPLENE            1826         9144         2098        13068          9733        74%
SKRAPAR              441         7912         3800        12153         8275         68%
SHKORDER           36203         7091         2290        45584        42666         94%
VLORE              15052         8864        13908        37824        28654         76%
SARANDE            11525         5930         8372        25827        20159        78%
PERMET              2999         6670         5054        14723        10529         72%
FIER               41445        22857         6864        71166        62020        87%
KRUJB              18942         4658         1876        25476        23374        92%
LEZHE              16768         1737             0       18505         18071        98%
DURRES/KAVAJE      30028        17501         4021        51550        45164        88%
KORCE              30536        26872         5568        62976        53474        85%
GJIOKASTER          9499         6080         2114        17693        15116        85%
POGRADEC            2381         8347         6778        17506         12030       69%
LUSHNJE            37012        10574         3550        51136        46718         91%
XOLONJE             2191         6323         2754        11268          8310       74%
TOTAL              300528       263254       129821       693603       562881        81%
Average (%)          43%          38%           19%          100%         81%



ANNEX D
Page 17 of 41
TABLE 2
District           Area (ha)   Area (ha)   Rural       ha/capita   ha/capita  Marginal.
Total       Weighted    Populat.    Total        Weighted      Index
POOREST
PUKE                5165         3927        67400        0.08         0.06         120%
MIRDITE             6318         4753        43900        0.14         0.11         120%
TROPOJE             7390         5278        35800        0.21         0.15         120%
KUKES              17924        13158        86900        0.21         0.15         120%
MAT                14133         9894        63000        0.22         0.16         120%
DIBER              28490        21862       133800        0.21         0.16         120%
LIBRAZHDE          14489        10725        64900        0.22         0.17         120%
Subtotal         93909        69597      375280        0.25         0.19
POOR
BERAT              32014        20486       110100        0.29         0.19         110%
GRANSH             10362         7020        36700        0.28         0.19         110%
TIRANE             33119        25752       120400        0.28         0.21         110%
ELBASAN            47744        35733       144200        0.33         0.25         110%
Subtotal        123239        88991      411400        0.30         0.22
LESS POOR
TEPELENE           13068         9733        36700        0.36         0.27         90%
SXRAPAR            12153         8275        30500        0.40        0.27         90%
SHKORDER           45584        42666       157100        0.29        0.27         90%
VLORE              37824        28654        92200        0.41         0.31         90%
SARANDE            25827        20159        62700        0.41        0.32         90%
PERMET             14723        10529        30700        0.48         0.34         90%
Subtotal        149179       120016      409900        0.36         0.29
BETTER OFF
FIER               71166        62020       178300        0.40         0.35         80%
KRUJE              25476        23374        67000        0.38         0.35         80%
LEZHE              18505        18071        50800        0.36         0.36         80%
DURRES/KAVAJE      51550        45164       125700        0.41         0.36         80%
KORCE              62976        53474       144100        0.44         0.37         80%
GJIOKASTER         17693        15116        39800        0.44         0.38         80%
POGRADEC           17506        12030        30100        0.58         0.40         80%
LUSHNJE            51136        46718       106100        0.48         0.44         80%
KOLONJE            11268         8310        17600        0.64         0.47         80%
Subtotal        327276       284277      759500        0.43         0.37
TOTAL             693603       562881      2076500        0.33         0.27         98%



ANNEX D
Page 18 of 41
PART HI. RDF CREDIT PROGRAM
SECTiON A: GENERAL
3.1    The objective of ADF's Credit Programn (ADF CP) is to provide small-scale credit for farmers
and micro-entrepreneurs. The ADF CP shall administer credit funds and lines of credit (Designated
Credit Funds, DCF) provided by Government and multilateral and bilateral donors for this objective.
3.2    DCF shall be administered and disbursed with the cooperation of the Rural Commercial Bank
(RCB) and individual villages, which are represented by village credit committees (VCCs). ADF shall
retain ownership of DCF; loan contracts shall be between ADF and the individual borrowers or a group.
ADF shall assign the rights to VCC to participate in the selection of borrowers, the appraisal and
approval of sub-loans, and, generally, to promote ADF CP loans.
3.3    ADF shall administer DCF in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of these Regulations
and in conformity with prudent banking and credit practice.
Eligibility of Villages
3.4          In its selection of districts, communes and villages for setting up VCCs, staff in ADF's
credit department will apply the following criteria:
(a)    ADF shall target those areas where access to formal sector credit from RCB branches is
particularly difficult, either due to the lack of RCB branch offices in that area, or due to
the financial or institutional incapacity of existing RCB branches to provide small loans
to private individuals and groups; and
(b)    ADF shall assess the potential demand for loans by final beneficiaries at the village level.
Villages will be selected such that sufficient demand for loans is assured.
3.5   In order to be eligible for receiving funds from ADF, villages shall:
(a)    have created a village credit committee (VCC); and
(b)    remain in good standing with ADF, which includes specifically the timely repayment of
all loans approved and assigned to final borrowers by VCC.
3.6    Based on the interest in participation expressed by villages, ADF staff shall guide and facilitate
the process of creating VCCs.
Eligibility of Beneficiaries
3.7    ADF's credit projects target the rural poor and seek to provide incentives and opportunities for
productive economic activities. Loans from VCC's are therefore open to all income-generating activities
in all economic sectors, agricultural as well as non-agricultural. Loans are made to both men and women
on an equal, non-discriminating basis. Loans are equally available for both individual borrowers and



ANNEX D
Page 19 of 41
groups of borrowers, regardless of whether groups are organized in legal units. State farms and other
state enterprises are not eligible for loans from VCCs.
3.8    Borrowers may receive only one credit at a time; to access a second credit, a borrower must have
fully reimbursed the first credit. The ADF may authorize a VCC to lag credit disbursement over a period
of time, when justified by the nature of the investment activity.
Funds
3.9    DCF shall be held in separate sub-accounts, which shall be maintained in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2 of these Regulations, and in compliance with terms of any agreement under which
DCF were placed under ADF administration. Each sub-account shall be identified by a title and an
account number.
SECTION B: ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES
3.10   ADF shall maintain a separate credit program administration account and DCF sub-accounts in
accordance with good accounting practice and in compliance with prevailing and future national
accounting law. In addition, ADF shall ensure that maintenance of the DCF sub-accounts shall comply
with the specific conditions set out hereunder.
3.11   The credit program  administration account and DCF sub-accounts shall be prepared and
maintained so as to produce annual balance sheets and, as appropriate, income and expenditure accounts;
to furnish a statement of account at any time; and to meet the specific requirements of Government and
of a participating donor agency. Such annual accounts and statements shall reflect a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of ADF CP and DCF sub-accounts; and they shall be subject to audit in accordance
with the requirement of relevant national legislation and of the participating donor agencies.
ADF Accounting for Loans made from DCF Sub-Accounts
3.12   ADF shall account for each sub-loan made from DCF in accordance with the regulations set out
hereunder. Notwithstanding the accounts maintained by RCB for the financial transactions on each sub-
loan under para. 2.18, the ADF sub-loan account shall be taken as the accurate record in case of any
dispute.
3.13   A Loan Portfolio File ("File") shall be maintained at the District Branch of the ADF responsible
for each sub-loan. The File shall consist of client data including: (i) evidence of legal personality for
group or corporate clients; (ii) the original loan application form; (iii) the loan preparation documents;
(iv) the minutes of VCC meeting at which the loan was evaluated and approved; (v) the loan contract
specifying schedules of disbursement; (vi) supervision and repayment; (vii) client correspondence; and
(viii) all such other information as may be necessary for the orderly management of the sub-loan.
3.14   Each loan shall be clearly identifiable and referenced to the File.
3.15   Interest rate. The VCF lending rate will be changed from the existing dollar-based rate to a lek-
based rate. The rate of interest shall be revised twice a year by the ADF Executive Committee on the
basis of the following information:



ANNEX D
Page 20 of 41
(a)    Evolution of consumer prices (source: Ministry of Finance)
(b)    Evolution of farm income (source: sample survey conducted annually by the ADF Studies
Department on about 100 farms in 5 districts)
(c)    Evolution of commercial interest rates (source: formal banking sector)
(d)    Transaction costs (source: ADF)
(e)    VCF default rate (source: ADF)
During the period of implementation of the IDA-financed Rural Development Project, any changes in the
interest rate shall only be made after consultation with IDA. The interest rate is indicated in Attachment
2.
3.16   Interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the loan according to the interest rate and
the conditions specified in the loan contract. Each individual loan contract contains a repayment plan
specifying principal and interest for each repayment date.
3.17  Interest includes a fixed percentage ("transaction costs") to reimburse ADF, RCB, and VCC and
to contribute to an Emergency Fund (para. 2.15) and any other fund agreed between ADF and VCC.
The total amount of transaction costs shall be agreed by the ADF Executive Committee, and is indicated
in Attachment 2.
3.18   In the event an amount overdue appears on a village account, no further disbursements will be
made by RCB for that village. The VCC shall immediately investigate the reasons for delays in loan
repayments and shall assist in loan recovery by seeking to resolve related difficulties faced by the
borrowers or by calling in the loan and enforcing liquidation of the collateral obtained from borrowers.
3.19   Based on loan approvals, the ADF district branch shall keep a separate accounting of
disbursements and repayments allowing (i) to check and verify RCB account management, and (ii) to
establish an efficient work plan for district credit officers. The ADF district officers shall provide to their
Deputy Director a monthly statement, which will include a summary of their activities and the status
(balance sheet) of loan accounts.
3.20   From these monthly statements, the ADF credit department shall establish an aggregate 3 months
financial report for each DCF account. Such reports shall present the state of arrears.
3.21   Arrears. Each DCF account shall be so maintained as to reflect the state of arrears on its sub-
loan accounts. For this purpose, the following definition of arrears will apply:
"Arrears shall be calculated as the total amount falling due during the year (A) plus the
amount overdue at the beginning of the year (B) less the amount actually collected during
the year (C) and the rate of arrears shall be expressed as the arrears outstanding at the
end of the year (A+B-C) as a percentage of total demand (A+B)."



ANNEX D
Page 21 of 41
3.22   Statement of arrears shall be prepared quarterly and at such other times as may be required by
Government and by participating donor agencies.
3.23   Bad and Doubtfud Debts. ADF shall account for bad and doubtful debts in accordance with
prudent, international accounting practices, and specifically it shall establish in its accounts a reserve for
bad and doubtful debts by a transfer from the surplus on "income and expenditure account" of an amount
equivalent to 1 % of loan principal outstanding and to 1 % of loan interest outstanding on the date of the
preparation of the annual accounts. The classification and write-off of bad debts shall be in accordance
with prudent banking practice, always provided that it shall be acceptable to participating donors.
3.24   Rescheduling of Sub-account Loans. Rescheduling of individual and group loans of ADF may
only be undertaken with the approval of the ADF Executive Committee, at the request of the Deputy
Director for Credit. A rescheduling agreement shall specify the loan or loans affected and the terms and
conditions under which the rescheduling is permitted. The annual accounts relating to arrears shall
contain a return of rescheduled loans and shall certify that account has been taken of the rescheduled
loans in the calculation of the arrears ratio.
3.25   Emergency Fund. In the event of exceptional difficulties by a borrower, the VCC may advise
the Deputy Director of Credit to withdraw funds from the Emergency Fund created for this purpose. Use
of the Emergency Fund shall be approved by the ADF Executive Committee.
3.26   ADF CP Income. In the preparation of DCF sub-accounts in accordance with provisions of
paragraph 2.2 of these Regulations, the transaction costs due to ADF shall be credited to the CP Income
and Expenditure account on the basis of amounts actually collected and not on the basis of the amount
due or accrued.
CP Administration Account
3.27   The costs to ADF of ADF CP administration that are specific to its lending operations shall be
charged to the CP Administration Account. Record of such costs shall be maintained at both the local
(district) level and the aggregate level for each DCF.
RCB Accounting for DCF Sub-Loans
3.28   RCB shall maintain such accounts for the management of the DCF sub-loans to the extent and
in the manner prescribed in the ADF-RCB Agreement by which RCB undertakes to administer such
accounts. The ADF-RCB Agreement is attached as Attachment 1 to these Regulations and shall be read
in conjunction to them in all matters affecting DCF sub-loans.
3.29   Local RCB branches shall report monthly to ADF and to each VCC by providing a summary
listing of all disbursements made and all loan repayments received. The RCB management of the village
accounts by RCB shall allow for clear identification and separation of principal and interest for each
individual loan.
SECTION C: LoAN PROCESSING AND ADMINISTRATION
3.30   DCF sub-loans shall comply with the lending conditions and procedures set out herein.



ANNEX D
Page 22 of 41
3.31   Village Credit Fund. ADF shall establish an interest-bearing account in the RCB branch; the
account shall be earmarked for the respective village. ADF shall transfer a first tranche of capital to this
account, which constitutes the village credit fund. Once these funds have been used up for loans, ADF
may replenish that account by consecutive tranches. The maximum amount of a village credit fund may
be set by the ADF Executive Committee based on village population and the loan ceiling (Attachment 2);
it will be reviewed periodically and changed as necessary.
Loan Identification and Borrower Eligibility
3.32   Loan identification and borrower eligibility shall be carried out by the VCC, duly appointed by
ADF to carry out these duties.
3.33   Village Credit Committee. The composition of VCC shall be as follows:
(a)    A minimum of three village representatives who shall be democratically elected for this
purpose;
(b)    one representative of the responsible branch of the RCB; and
(c)    one staff member of the ADF credit department, representing ADF on the VCC.
3.34   Village Representatives will undergo a training program, designed and carried out by ADF staff,
to get familiar with the conditions and techniques applicable under ADF-financed village credit funds.
3.35   On behalf of ADF CP, VCC shall:
(a)    select loan beneficiaries, determine loan amounts, and define collateral requirements to
secure loans. For VCFs that have been established during the pre-pilot or pilot stage,
VCCs shall be assigned a single loan ceiling per beneficiary of US$1,000 equivalent by
the ADF. On an exceptional basis, not to exceed 20% of the total amount disbursed by
a VCF, the ADF Executive Committee can authorize loan amounts up to double the fixed
loan ceiling, if justified by the proposed investment project. New VCFs established
during the full-scale stage will retain loan ceiling of US$500 equivalent; the ADF
Executive Committee can authorize loan amounts up to double the fixed loan ceiling;
(b)    set loan maturities, as short as possible, and loan repayment schedules in order to limit
risk and to maximize the number of beneficiaries; loan duration greater than the
maximum duration established by the ADF Executive Committee shall require prior
approval by the ADF Executive Committee; and
(c)    define and enforce sanctions for late loan repayment or default.
Loan Evaluation and Approval
3.36   VCCs shall meet as required, but at least every two months, to consider loan applications from
village residents. Loan applications shall be considered in the order received, and all requests shall be
acted upon within six weeks after their receipt by the VCC.



ANNEX D
Page 23 of 41
3.37   VCC decisions must have the approval of a majority of the Village Representatives present during
a VCC meeting. The representatives of ADF and RCB shall each have the right to veto any loan so
approved. VCC loan approvals shall be formulated within the context of a loan agreement between ADF,
represented by VCC, and the final beneficiary.
3.38   On behalf of ADF CP, VCCs shall technically and financially appraise the loan applications. In
carrying out the appraisal, VCC shall, inter alia, have regard to:
(a)   the real need of the borrower for credit due to lack of other resources;
(b)   the ability of the borrower to use the funds productively and economically.
(c)   the capacity of the borrower to repay the loan based on the estimated financial viability
of the loan;
(d)   the environmental impact on the village of the activity financed by the loan;
(e)    adequacy of the collateral (equipment, livestock, supplies, crops, real estate, or
guarantees from relatives and friends) offered by the borrower;
(f)   the technical and/or commercial knowledge of the applicant, and the adequacy of inputs
(land, labor) for the proposed investment activity;
(g)   the availability of key technical services (e.g., vaccination for animals) to support the
proposed investment;
(h)    verification that the candidate is in good standing with the RCB and the village credit
fund.
3.39   ADF may request that the technical preparation and/or evaluation of sub-loan be carried out by
or under the supervision of a competent technical agency or technician so appointed. The ADF CP shall
collaborate with technical agencies or private specialists for technical preparation, supervision and
evaluation of the loans whenever necessary in order that VCCs appraise potential loans in accordance with
sound technical criteria. Such technical services shall be reported in the loan File. Each technical agency
or specialist appointed for one or more of these tasks shall be approved by the ADF Deputy Director for
Credit.
Loan Agreements
3.40   Loan agreements will specify the following items:
(a)    borrower's name and address;
(b)    purpose of the loan, items to be financed from the proceeds of the loan;
(c)   loan amount, loan maturity, and repayment schedule;



ANNEX D
Page 24 of 41
(d)    mechanism for maintaining the real value of the loan either: (i) through indexation of
the loan to the US$-Lek exchange rate or usage of an indicator of actual inflation (such
as prices of crops or livestock); or (ii) through charging Lek-based loan interest rates
high enough to compensate for inflation;
(e)    additional interest charges (para. 2.7 and Attachment 2); and
(f)    collateral required.
Loan Disbursement and Repayment
3.41   Any disbursement from the village RCB account requires a written demand by the VCC, signed
by the Village Representatives, the ADF credit officer and the RCB representative. Disbursement shall
be effected by RCB directly to the borrower, on demand of VCC and in accordance with the loan
contract. VCC does not handle cash.
3.42   Loan repayment shall be effected by the borrower, in accordance with the schedule of repayment,
directly to RCB.
Experimental Programs
3.43   The ADF CP may undertake experimental activities that do not conform to these Regulations.
The objective of such activities shall be to develop and test new credit program methods in order to better
address the needs of the target population. Experimental activities shall constitute no more than 5% of
ADF CP loans. Operational guidelines for experimental activities shall be approved by the ADF
Executive Committee and shall be fully incorporated into this Manual at the end of the test period.
Credit Department Records
3.44   In order to monitor and record the history of program development, the ADF Credit Department
shall maintain a file containing all sample contracts and other documents used in processing and
administering loans. All versions of such documents shall be maintained in the file; all changes to
documents shall be carefully recorded. This file shall be available to Government and participating
donors upon request.
SECTION D: STAFF REQUIREMENTS
3.45   The credit department of ADF shall be staffed with credit officers experienced in rural economic
activities, such as agronomists or economists with previous work experience in former cooperatives.
Some departmental staff shall be based in respective districts, since it will be required to engage, on a
regular basis, in extensive field trips in order to assist in creating Village Credit Committees (VCCs) and
to decide on loan applications as active members of the VCC.  To complement their technical
backgrounds, credit department staff will be trained by ADF in the fields of local organization and
intervention in rural areas.



ANNEX D
Page 25 of 41
ATTACHMENT 1
Agreement between the Rural Commercial Bank and the Albanian Development Fund
Protocol of Accord
The Albanian Development Fund (ADF) and
The Rural Commercial Bank (RCB)
"Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project"
(translated from Albanian)
Introduction
To assist poor rural areas and to establish rural credit funds, the Albanian Development Fund (ADF) shall
intervene in these areas via the "Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project." With this project, the ADF
aims to establish "village credit funds" (VCF) that permit village populations to benefit from small loans
for profitable economic activity. In order to benefit from this project, the ADF requests that the RCB,
through its district branches, undertake responsibility for the technical and financial administration of
these funds. The RCB, taking into consideration the results obtained during the experimental phase of
the project in the district of Elbasan, has agreed to the project in question and commits itself to cooperate
with the ADF in other districts.
The two parties agree on the following:
Article 1
ADF and RCB shall collaborate in the realization of the "Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project" and
its successor projects which aims to establish a new system of rural credit. These funds shall be
established in accordance with the general regulations for VCF, annexed to this agreement.
Article 2
The VCF shall be put at the disposition of the villages selected by ADF and shall remain the property
of the ADF. The risk resulting from the allocation of this credit shall be born by ADF. ADF and VCF
accounts shall be considered as normal bank accounts and shall earn the appropriate interest rate.
Article 3
For the ADF credit activity, RCB shall act as financial agency via its district agencies. Technical and
financial treatment of VCF is defined in the rules for accounting and administration of VCF annexed to
this agreement.



ANNEX D
Page 26 of 41
Article 4
RCB district agencies shall periodically provide information about ADF and VCF accounts according to
the annexed rules.
Article 5
In compensation for the service provided by RCB district branches, ADF shall pay to RCB 2% of the
amount of each loan reimbursed by beneficiaries. This amount covers all administrative costs undertaken
by RCB for its activities concerning VCF, such as accounting, allocation of credit, cashing of
reimbursements, and trips by RCB representatives. ADF shall assist RCB officers improve their
professional capacity through seminars and training courses.
Article 6
RCB and ADF shall assist each other and cooperate in a friendly and productive way.
Article 7
The agreement between the "Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project" and the RCB branch in Elbasan
signed on 21 February, 1993 is abrogated. VCFs established in the Elbasan District shall operate under
the regulations defined herein, commencing on the day this agreement is signed.
Article 8
The agreement shall be effective on the day it has been signed by both parties; it shall terminate three
months after one of the parties has announced its annulment.
Signed on.......
For RCB                                  For ADF
General Director                         Executive Director



ANNEX D
Page 27 of 41
ATTACHMENT 2
Credit Program Indicators
1.    The following figures shall be reviewed periodically by the ADF Executive Committee. All
changes to such figures shall be documented and filed. The file shall be available to the Government or
participating donors upon request.
(a)    The interest rates to be used are the following:
(i)    Loan principal pegged to the US dollar plus transaction costs
(ii)   Lek-based interest rate of 10%
Starting January 1, 1995, interest rate (ii) will be applied to new VCFs created in new districts.
A transition period will be applicable to new loans in existing VCFs and to new VCFs in districts
with existing VCFs; borrowers will have the choice of interest rates (i) or (ii) up to December
31, 1995. Existing borrowers may reimburse their loan and replace it with a lek-based loan if
desired.
(b)    Transaction costs to be included in interest rate:
2%    RCB
2.5 % ADF
0.5%  Emergency Fund
1 %    Village Credit Committee
The difference between the interest rate and the transaction costs shall remain in the village credit
fund.
(c)    Method to calculate amount of village credit fund:
# farnilies
--- x loan ceiling
3
(d)    Maximum loan duration: 3 years.



ANNEX D
Page 28 of 41
PART IV. PROMOTION AND SUPPORT OF RURAL ACTIVITIES
SECTION A: OBECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES
4.1   In coordination with village credit funds, ADF shall provide technical support in the areas of: (a)
agricultural and livestock production; and (b) microenterprise development. Such technical support shall
be organized and implemented by the ADF's Department of Rural Activities.
Agricultural and Livestock Support
4.2    The ADF Department of Rural Activities shall ensure liaison with the Ministry of Agriculture's
Agricultural Extension Department and Livestock Department and shall inform the ADF's Credit
Department of all technical actions undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture in ADF's districts of
intervention.
4.3    As regards animal health, the Department shall promote the creation of animal health associations
in the villages benefitting from small-scale credit. The animal health associations, created with the
participation of ADF, farmers, and veterinarians, shall organize the vaccination of all village animals.
Their statute is attached (annex...).
Microenterprise Support
4.4    For the purpose of the project, a microenterprise is defined as a sole proprietorship, partnership,
or famnily business that has fewer than 5 employees and does not have access to commercial bank lending.
Most of the microenterprises in Albania's rural areas consist of self employment and/or part-time
employment.
4.5    The ADF's Department of Rural Activities shall:
(a)    provide demand-driven business and technical advice to private microenterprises-existing
microenterprises or new income-generating activity-financed by small credit via village
credit funds; and
(b)    assist in the creation of "common facility centers," providing services to a group of
microentrepreneurs. These common facility centers should also be demand-driven and
owned by an association of microentrepreneurs.
SECTION B: PROCEDURES FOR LIVESTOCK SUPPORT
4.6    The Department of Rural Activities shall promote the establishment of "village animal health
associations" (VAHA) as a means of improving village livestock quality and production through village-
wide prophylaxis. VAHAs shall consist of voluntary, independent associations; their members shall be
private farmers and veterinarians. The statute for VAHAs shall be at all times acceptable to IDA and
to ADF's Board of Trustees.
4.7   In villages where there is established a village credit fund and a VAHA in good standing, the
ADF may contribute financially toward village-wide prophylaxis, according to the terms and conditions



ANNEX D
Page 29 of 41
set forth in an agreement signed by the Village Chief, Authorized Representative of the VAHA, and the
Authorized Representative of Veterinarian Services. The model agreement shall be at all times acceptable
to IDA and to ADF's Board of Trustees.
SECTION C: PROCEDURES FOR MICROENTERPRISE SUPPORT
4.8    The Department of Rural Activities may be contacted through the credit department or directly
by microentrepreneurs. Subprojects that consist of small/medium enterprises rather than microenterprises
shall be referred to the European Union-financed SME Foundation and/or the FAO Agribusiness Project.
The Department shall work with a team of local consultants, selected and trained to prepare business
plans and assist microenterprises in the areas of production management, supply, marketing, accounting,
administration, and legal advice. The Department shall also provide the local consultants with technical
information. The Department will set up and maintain, in liaison with the technical institutes in Albania
and aborad, a database on, inter alia, small technologies, equipment, suppliers, and prices.
Remuneration of Local Consultants
4.9    The local consultants shall be remunerated according to the services performed. The business
advice shall be financed by ADF, except for a symbolic participation of the clients (similar to the
contribution of farmers in the village animal health associations).
Subproject Files
4.10   A Microenterprise Subproject File shall be maintained by the Department. The file shall consist
of subproject data, including:
-  information on the client;
-  the business plan;
-  a record of all contacts with the client, and of the support/information provided to the client;
and
-  a plan for follow-up.
Reporting and Evaluation Requirements
4.11   Each staff member of the Department, including the local consultants, will prepare a monthly
report of his/her activities comprising:
-      a general description of his/her activity;
-      a list of all contacts with microentrepreneurs;
-      a list of business plans prepared;
-      the status of all subprojects; and
-      suggestions to improve methods.
4.12   The Director of the Department shall prepare a summary of these reports and present them each
month to the ADF Executive Director.



ANNEX D
Page 30 of 41
SECTION D: STAFF REQUIREMENTS
4.13   The department shall require the employment of staff who have a university education in
agriculture, animal husbandry, and economics. The staff in charge of microenterprise support shall
receive a specialized training in microenterprise promotion. Training shall also be organized for local
veterinarians working with the animal health associations and for local consultants for microenterprises.



ANNEX D
Page 31 of 41
PART V. STUDIES AND TRAINING
SECTION A: STUDIES
Village Profiles
5.1   In order to build a bridge between historical roots and present rural development issues, the
studies division shall interview older village inhabitants about local traditions of labor organization, land
ownership, off-farm activities, village organization, informal credit, and other topics, before
collectivization under the communist regime. Short video films presenting village profiles based on these
interviews may be used in project training, and may also be shown in local schools.
Identifying Village Problems
5.2    The ADF studies division will create an inventory of present village problems: access to markets;
water and energy supply; land use; management of local resources such as irrigation, pasture, forest; and
other relevant problems.
Farm Surveys
5.3    ADF staff will also undertake sample farm surveys in villages benefiting from ADF-financed
village credit funds. These surveys will focus on production factors (land, labor, equipment, inputs), the
choice of products (crops, cattle, ruminants, etc.), household budgets, and the attitudes and motivations
of the farmers toward land ownership, employment, migration, and services provided by the state and
by the private sector. These surveys shall include the evolution of farm income in order to provide the
information required to monitor the credit interest rate. These farm surveys will supplement country-
wide statistical studies, and will provide valuable information for poverty assessments. All farm surveys
will be conducted in villages and will mostly be carried out by ADF-contracted ex-cooperative staff, who
will receive special training.
Project Impact and Beneficiary Assessment
5.4    The Studies Division shall undertake two comprehensive project impact/beneficiary assessment
studies during the life of the Rural Development Project-the first to take place before the mid-term
review, and the second to take place before the end of the project.
Organization of Work
5.5    All activities of ADF's in the area of studies will involve strong participation of infrastructure
inspectors and credit officers of ADF working in the respective communes and villages. Furthermore,
these activities will be coordinated with, and supported by local research centers.



ANNEX D
Page 32 of 41
SECTION B: TRAINING
Training of ADF Staff
5.6    An important task of ADF is to maintain a highly trained and competent staff. Newly-recruited
staff shall be trained using on-the-job training and short-term in-house training courses. Experienced ADF
staff shall be encouraged to continually improve their skills through participation in local and foreign
training courses. External consultants may also be engaged by ADF in order to provide training in new
or technical subject matters. Prior to submitting the annual work program and budget, Department
Directors should discuss and identify training needs for all ADF staff; proposed training should be
included in the annual work program and budget. Additional, unforeseen training may be undertaken
with the approval of the Executive Committee, subject to budget availability.
Training of Commune Staff and Rural Entrepreneurs
5.7    ADF's activities, carried out with communes and villages, are an ideal channel for providing "on-
the-job" training to local partners in all skills relevant within a market economy: project evaluation,
financial management in communes, business planning, management and marketing for private farmers
and rural micro-entrepreneurs.
5.8    ADF shall organize short training courses for commune staff and rural entrepreneurs and may
seek assistance from external consultants in setting up these training programs. Training of local partners
will greatly facilitate ADF's project work in communes and villages.



ANNEX D
Page 33 of 41
PART VI. FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION A: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTING
Management of Financial Resources
6.1   As specified in the Decision of the Albanian Council of Ministers establishing ADF, ADF's
resources and revenues comprise:
-     resources assigned by multilateral or bilateral aid programs,
-     grants provided by the Government of Albania,
-     domestic and foreign donations and legacies,
-     resources derived from contracted soft loans,
-     capital recovery from loans granted and interest earned,
-     other revenues and income that may arise.
6.2    ADF's staff in the financial management and accounting division will be responsible for keeping
track of all resources committed and received, and of engaging in mobilizing additional resources as
needed. In particular, ADF staff will be responsible for following required procedures for drawing down
on funds available to ADF from the International Development Association (IDA) and other multilateral
and bilateral institutions. This involves verifying, filing and compiling all supporting documentation for
disbursement requests.
Accounting
6.3    ADF shall establish and maintain an efficient internal accounting system. ADF accounting staff
shall be trained by an expert in order to assure familiarity with a western-style accounting framework
which has been unknown in Albania in times of the centrally-planned economy.
6.4    Contracts constitute the basic document for commitment of funds and subsequent disbursements
and entry into the accounting system. Following the signing of contracts (employment contracts for ADF
staff members, rural works project contracts, credit project contracts, consultant contracts, etc.), ADF
accounting staff records the commitment equal to the amount of the contract and, if applicable, establishes
a payment schedule. At any time, the undisbursed and available portion of the amount committed is the
difference between the initial commitment and the sum of payments already disbursed.
6.5    ADF's accounting staff shall be responsible for transferring funds for financing civil works,
village credit funds, and other project activities following the approval of the ADF Executive Committee
and in accordance with the contract for the item to be financed. All checks and payment orders shall be
signed by the ADF Executive Director and the Director of Finance and Administration. The Executive
Director may delegate in writing the authority to sign in their absence.
6.6    Accounting staff shall regularly request bank statements and, on the basis of these statements,
maintain accounting records. Such records shall be signed by the Director of Finance and Administration
and filed.



ANNEX D
Page 34 of 41
6.7    A photocopy of each signed check or payment order and, if the signature authority has been
delegated, a reference to the delegation, shall be attached to an invoice before it is filed with the
supporting accounting documents maintained by ADF for accounting purposes.
6.8    Directors of operational departments shall be responsible for relations with banking branches and
district Treasury Department branches, and shall be responsible for the documentation of financing
operations performed in conjunction with their departmental activities.
SECTION B: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Procurement
6.9    All IDA-financed goods and services shall be procured according to the applicable IDA
guidelines, which have been agreed between the Government of Albania and IDA. For specific
procurement rules, ADF staff should refer to Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement between ADF and
IDA, and to World Bank Procurement Guidelines (May 1992).
6.10   For financial resources stemming from cofinanciers, their respective rules and regulations shall
be followed.
6.11   In order to facilitate efficient procurement for very small items, a petty cash system shall enable
the purchase by check of cash of items valued at less than US$50 equivalent per unit, for a maximum of
US$500 equivalent per day. For these small purchases, it shall not be necessary to use local shopping
procedures (documenting three offers).
Disbursements
6.12   Details of disbursement procedures are set out in the Credit Agreement between the Government
of Albania and IDA. With respect to IDA procedures for procurement and disbursement, ADF staff may
seek information and assistance from the World Bank Resident Mission in Albania and from other Project
Implementation Units for IDA-financed projects.
SECTION C: PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
Management by Objectives
6.13   ADF will be administered in accordance with the principles of management by objectives.
Management by objectives is a systematic effort to enrich tasks vertically to permit managers and
employees, within their sphere of responsibility, to contribute to attainment of their organization's
objectives.  Specifically, each ADF manager and supervisor (the Executive Director, the three
departmental directors, and the Department Head for Studies, Technology, and Training, and chief
infrastructure inspectors) will come together with her/his respective subordinates, at all administrative
levels, and set the goals to be attained by the subordinate over a certain period of time. A progress
review is carried out on a pre-established date to evaluate the actual achievements in relation to the
expected outcomes.



ANNEX D
Page 35 of 41
Quarterly Statement of Objectives
6.14   Every three months, and at the date of entry into ADF of new employees, each manager or
supervisory employee receives his Quarterly Statement of Objectives. This quarterly cycle runs from
January I to April 1 and is repeated every three months. As a well-managed organization, ADF should:
-      inform its employees what is expected of them;
-     help them perform their work efficiently;
-      identify those employees who are capable of assuming greater responsibilities;
-      remunerate them in accordance with their contribution; and
-      sanction their failures.
6.15   For their part, employees should know how their work is being evaluated, and what they can
expect as a result of their work.
6.16   On the basis of their efforts, it is necessary to implement a program that:
*     allows each employee to be informed, at least every three months, of her/his supervisor's
explanation of the results of her/his work;
encourages managers to counsel their employees on their individual development
(improvement of performance, possible promotion); and
-      serves as the basis for application of the policy of increasing salaries on the basis of
merit.
6.17   The process will be as follows:
(a)    at the beginning of the quarter, ADF's Executive Director meets with the entire staff and
sets out the overall mission and objectives of ADF for the year to come;
(b)   the Executive Director establishes an individualized statement of objectives for the staff
members that report directly to him (the managers of the four Departments);
(c)    each manager arranges a meeting of all her/his employees and discusses with them the
objectives of the respective department, which will be the basis for individual objectives.
The manager then personally interviews each employee to discuss the organization of
her/his work, potential problems and unavoidable obstacles, to come to an agreement on
the employee's individual objectives and to set forth the criteria for eventual evaluation
of her/his performance. All of this is recorded, in summary fashion, in a document that
serves as the Annual Statement of Objectives.



ANNEX D
Page 36 of 41
Self-evaluation
6.18   The concept of self-discipline, incorporated in the method of management by objectives, is an
important source of work motivation. Self-discipline relies on the assumption that employees are
responsible for their own work, and that they have the desire to contribute to attaining the objectives of
ADF. By referring to the individual Statement of Objectives, each employee can verify whether she/he
is on schedule with her/his work program, and, on this basis, can make necessary decisions to improve
individual performance. Thus, without awaiting the end of the quarter, the employee is able to evaluate
her-/himself and seek, if necessary, the opinion of the immediate supervisor.
Evaluation at the end of the quarter
6.19   At the end of the quarter, each employee is interviewed by the immediate supervisor, who
presents her/his written evaluation of the employee's performance relative to the objectives set out in the
Statement of Objectives. The supervisor will take into account external factors, such as unforeseen
difficulties and problems, that may have a negative or positive bearing on the employee's performance.
The employee acknowledges the evaluation and can make her/his own comments on it. The employee's
signature proves that she/he has read the content of the evaluation, but it does not constitute an agreement
with the content of the evaluation.  Performance ratings should follow these five rating levels:
outstanding, very good, good, needs improvement, unsatisfactory. All evaluations are approved by the
Executive Director of ADF.
Salary structure
6.20   ADF's structure of salaries will be based on the degree of responsibility and the level of
professional qualification at the various levels within ADF's organizational structure. Within each salary
category, there will be a range between lowest and highest salaries in that same category. ADF's
Executive Director will propose the concrete salary structure and will seek approval from the Board of
Trustees.
Salary during the probationary period
6.21   During the probationary period, as defined in ADF's Internal Regulations, new employees will
be remunerated according to the next lower salary category than that category which corresponds to their
assigned position. Upon confirmation after the end of the probationary period, the employee will move
up into the salary category that she/he has been assigned to in accordance with her/his position.
Salary increases
6.22   Generally, salary increases are awarded on the basis of merit as a direct function of the
performance evaluation given at the end of the quarterly cycle. Only "outstanding" and "very good"
ratings can usually lead to an increase in the employee's salary within the range of her/his salary
category, or to a promotion to a higher salary category. Furthermore, one-time bonuses may be paid to
"outstanding' performers (bonus of 125% of monthly salary) and "very good" performers (bonus of
110% of monthly salary).



ANNEX D
Page 37 of 41
6.23   Given the context of high inflation in the country, the Executive Director will propose
mechanisms for additional, general increases in the salary of all employees for approval by the Board of
Trustees.
Sanctions
6.24   An overall evaluation of "unsatisfactory" means that the employee will be very closely supervised,
and a file will be prepared in anticipation of separation of the employee if significant and quick
improvements in performance are not seen.
6.25   Generally, sanctions for various infractions are as follows:
-     oral remarks and written warnings;
-      written reprimand;
-      suspension from duty; and
-      dismissal.
6.26   Sanctions are taken by the employee's supervisor; according to the seriousness of the infraction
committed, the measure may be taken directly by the Executive Director of ADF.
6.27   When the sanction is taken by the supervisor, other than in the case of oral remarks, the
Executive Director should be informed in advance.
SECTION D: AcTIvrrY REPORTS
6.28   ADF will submit to IDA quarterly reports including the following information by district and
sector: (a) rural works projects presented by the communes, appraised, in execution, completed and
evaluated ex-post, including number of projects and beneficiaries, amounts committed and executed,
average cost per beneficiary and the percentage of labor in the investment cost; (b) village credit funds
created, number and total amount of loans distributed, activities financed, outstanding loan amounts,
repayment rates; (c) rural studies carried out, pilot projects in new technology implemented, training
courses performed; (d) ADF's key personnel and consultants indicating the changes that have taken place
during the reporting period; and (e) operating costs of the ADF. An outline for quarterly reports to IDA
is set out in attachment 1 to Part E of this Manual.
6.29   ADF's activities under the IDA project will require intense follow up and supervision from the
IDA, given the pilot nature of ADF's activities. IDA would undertake regular supervision missions
including field visits and spot checks of a sample of projects.
6.30   ADF's annual budget and annual reports will be prepared by the Director for Finance and
Administration in order to be furnished to the Executive Director for presentation to the Board of
Trustees and subsequent publication.



ANNEX D
Page 38 of 41
SECrTON E: STAFF REQUIREMENTS AND FUNCTIONS
6.31   A professional background in accounting or financial management is not a necessary requirement
for employment in the ADF accounting department, since western-style concepts have been unknown in
the country under the communist regime. Accounting staff shall be trained in western-style accounting
concepts.



ANNEX D
Page 39 of 41
AITACIMENT 1
Quarterly ADF Activity Report to IDA and other Donors
(Outline)
PERIOD COVERED (three months):
RURAL WORKS SUBPROJECTS:
Differentiate between type of subprojects (roads, water supply, irrigation, school and hospital
repairs, others to be specified), and provide name of district, commune and village foe each
project; give information on:
-      number, and Lek volume of works, with respect to: applications received, projects
appraised, projects approved/rejected, status of execution and of payment of approved
projects, projects finished; number of field visits and technical audits performed;
-      average cost of approved projects: per project, per beneficiary;
-      percentage of labor cost as of total project cost for approved projects;
-      special observations, comments, explanation of delays in project execution; progress
achieved in developing cost data base.
CREDIT PROJECTS:
Differentiate between and give names of district, commune and village for each village credit
fund project; give information on:
-      number, and Lek volume of ADF commitments and disbursements, with respect to:
village credit funds in the phase of promotion and creation, village credit funds created
and operating;
-      for each operating village credit fund , provide number and total volume of loans, and
type of activity to be financed, with respect to: loan applications received, loan requests
evaluated, loans approved, loans disbursed, loans repaid;
-     give loan repayment rates for each village credit fund, and explain differences in
repayment performance.
STUDIES TECHNOLOGY AND TRAINING:
Differentiate between studies projects, projects for technology transfer, and ADF training
activities. For each group of activities, give information on: total numbers of projects planned,
in execution, finished. For each project, provide time frame, total staff weeks required for
planning and execution, total cost, objectives and content of project, estimated benefits.
ADF STAFFING:
Positions filled during the reporting period, number and qualification of staff hired, staff
dismissed (why dismissed).



ANNEX D
Page 40 of 41
REVISED ADF BUDGET:
Enclose latest budget revision for the current year.
SIGNATURES:
To be signed by the ADF Executive Director, and by the Director for Finance and
Administration.



ANNEX D
Page 41 of 41
PART VII. INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDITING
Internal Auditing
7.1    ADF's Internal Auditor is responsible for monitoring ADF's budgetary situation and all financial
operations. The Internal Auditor also verifies that ADF management and staff follow their duties spelled
out in ADF's Internal Regulations and this Manual. The Internal Auditor reports directly to the ADF
Executive Director through reports which include any irregularities found in ADF's operations, and
proposals for correcting them. These reports shall be made available to the ADF Board of Trustees and
to IDA and other donor organizations.
External Auditing
7.2    Private international and independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, will also undertake annual
audits of the ADF. Not later than six months after the end of fiscal year, ADF will submit to IDA
certified copies of audit reports containing balance sheets, income statements and the auditor's opinion
on whether the ADF is achieving its objectives in a cost-effective way and whether internal controls are
adequate to minimize the possibility of misuse of funds.
hriuary 6, 1995
m:\alb\nudev\mr\annexd.x&r






ANNEX E
Page 1 of 10
ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX E
RURAL WORKS COMPONENT
INTRODUCfoN - THE PILOT PHASE
1.    As of December 1, 1994, the Infrastructure Department of the Rural Development Fund has
undertaken 155 rural works, 76 of which are completed, and has disbursed or committed a total of 229
million leks (about $2.3 million)'. The rehabilitated infrastructure-about 212 km of road, 22 potable
water supply, 24 schools, 22 health centers, 6 foot bridges, and over 460 ha of irrigation-benefits about
215,000 people.
2.     Average unit costs are entirely "reasonable"-US$7,000 per km for road rehabilitation and US$33
per meter for building rehabilitation. For those subprojects that are completed, the difference between
estimated and actual cost has averaged only 4 percent, reflecting the strong efforts by both RDF and
commune staff to tightly control costs.2
3.    Ten rural works inspectors, led by a Department Chief and Assistant Chief, are responsible for
identifying and evaluating subprojects proposed by villages and communes, and for supervising both
technical and financial aspect of the works. Following a training period, each inspector handles an
average of ten subprojects in two districts. Direct departmental operating costs have amounted to about
5 percent of investment.
THE RuRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: OBJECTIVES
4.    The Rural Development Project, which builds upon the successful experience of the pilot phase,
would finance a core program to extend the rural works component for three additional years (component
base costs are US$5.0 million). If additional cofinancing is secured, the rural works component could
expand to all of Albania's rural areas, at a full-scale component cost of US$11.0 million.
5.     The rural works component has three main objectives:
(a)    Rehabilitate and improve small rural infrastructure that is indispensable for economic
activity or for the well-being of village inhabitants;
(b)    Provide employment in rural areas; and
1/  Average investment per inhabitant is about 1,000 lek (US$10).
Z/ These efforts are particularly remarkable in light of major price increases during the last fourteen months: cement
increaed from 4,500 to 11,000 leks per ton and diesel fuel increased from 25 to 38 leks per liter.



ANNEX E
Page 2 of 10
(c)    Help local authorities (communes and villages) to develop the necessary skills to foster
local development.
6.     Rehabilitate Small Rural Infrastructure. Existing infrastructure in Albania is insufficient and
of poor quality, and its management and maintenance is almost nonexistent.  Technically, most
infrastructure is of poor quality:
* Techniques used were often obsolete;
* Project design was uniquely based on technical-rather than economic-criteria, leading to
high operational and maintenance costs;
* Political considerations often resulted in a low quality of service (for example, rural
electrification undertaken twenty years ago provides only 200 watts per household); and
* Small budgets and lack of motivation led to poor quality during construction.
7.     The management and maintenance of all rural infrastructure was the responsibility of agricultural
cooperatives or state farms. These structures have been dismantled and 318 communes were created
based on democratic representation and are theoretically in charge of all aspects of local life However,
communes have almost no means by which to assure maintenance of existing infrastructure.
8.    Developing Employment in Rural Albania. Two thirds of Albania's population lives in the
countryside. This high percentage is partly the result of the policy of the former government, which
restricted population movement and subsidized mountain populations. Recently, all cooperative and state
farm land has been distributed to villagers.3 This land allocation gave, on average, 1.4 hectares of land
to each family (in certain mountainous areas some families received less than one hectare). These very
small plots do not allow for the development of economically viable agriculture, which is one of the main
reasons for migration from rural to urban areas, which was prohibited for over 40 years.
9.    In order to sustain Albania's poorest families, the government introduced an economic assistance
program, Ndihme Ekonomike. This program strives to assures a minimum subsistence income for each
family; in reality, the amount distributed to rural families is too small for subsistence.
10.   For these reasons, a basic objective of the rural works component is to focus on labor intensive
works and inject cash into isolated villages by providing employment to the most disadvantaged. The 129
rural works organized and financed by the Rural Development Fund as of June 1, 1994 are injecting
about US$0.5 million in wages to villages, corresponding to about 400,000 days of employment. The
impact of this component on rural incomes is important; rural works should be viewed within the context
of safety net programs implemented by the Government.
11.   Help Local Government Foster Local Development.  The dismantling of agricultural
cooperatives left a huge gap in the management and maintenance of public services. In mid-1992, 318
democratically elected communes were established, but they do not have yet the financial means or
organizational structure to effectively assume the gap left by the cooperatives. One of the priorities of
the component is to help communes acquire the resources they need to work as real partners in local
development.
3/     Cooperative land was distributed in 1991-92 with property titles; state farm land was distributed later and the new
owners have only the 'right to use' the property.



ANNEX E
Page 3 of 10
RuRAL WORKS PRIORmES
12.    Subproject priorities have been selected taking into consideration the objectives and experience
of the Rural Development Fund (RDF). Table E. 1 shows the order of priorities for types of subprojects,
based on three main criteria: (a) socioeconomic impact; (b) impact on rural employment; (c) sustainability
and maintenance by local organizations (the ability of local organizations to maintain the rehabilitated
infrastructure).
Table E. 1: Comparing Subproject Socioeconomic Impact, Employment Generation, and Sustainability
Type of Subproject  Socioeconomic      Employment     Sustainability by Local
Impact          Generation        Organizations
Irrigation/Drainage       + + +            + + +               . . .
Roads                      ++              +++                  ++
Schools and Health         ++                +                 . . .
Centers
Patureland                  +              . . .                ++
Drinking Water             + +               +                  ++
Electricity              +.+ +
Telephone                  + +
+ - ranging from zero (none) to high (+ + +)
13.   Priority Sectors. Rehabilitating rural roads has good socioeconomic impact, high labor intensity,
and requires commune organization for construction and maintenance. Irrigation has the highest priority,
but requires the establishment of user associations for water management; Potable water supply and
rehabilitation of schools and health centers have a high social impact but require a low percentage of
manual labor. Local organizations (villages and communes) are responsible for construction and
maintenance; the central government supplies personnel and medical equipment.      Other types
infrastructure not mentioned above could be envisaged if requested by villages, such as foot bridges, rural
markets, or other social infrastructure.
14.    Sectors to Test. Forest Management and Soil and Water Conservation require high labor
intensity and have a positive economic impact in the long term. Afforestation, pasture management, and
anti-erosion measures could be tested, possibly in coordination with the rural credit component, as most
loans so far have been used to purchase livestock.
15.    Non-Priority Sectors. Rehabilitation of the electricity and telephone network is not envisaged
despite the economic impact, given that the use of manual labor is low and such infrastructure is not local
responsibility.
16.    Possible Evolution of Rural Works. The demand-driven approach developed during the pilot
phase will be continued, and it is not possible to predict exactly what types of works will be undertaken.
However, a possible outline of rural works to be undertaken is shown in Table E.2, based on pilot project
experience and knowledge of local needs.



ANNEX E
Page 4 of 10
Table E. 2: Possible Evolution of Rural Works
Type of Subproject   Pilot Project          1995               1996               1997
(1993/94)
Roads                     46%                40%                 35%                30%
Drinking Water Supply     14%                20%                 20%                20%
Buildings                 33%                20%                 15%                10%
Irrigation                 3%                10%                 20%                30%
Others                    4%                 10%                 10%                10%
COMPONENT METHODOLOGY
17.    Rural works are demand driven, selected by villages and communes according to the most urgent
local needs, thereby helping to assure their relevance and their future maintenance.  The initial
identification of a subproject comes from the village; the commune then undertakes a technical and
financial feasibility study of the project with the help of the Rural Development Fund.
18.    The methodology for implementing rural works is based on a clearly defined financing contract
between the project and the commune, which is responsible for carrying out the works and maintaining
the rehabilitated infrastructure. The commune assures:
* Technical control of the works by a specialized technician;4
* Procurement and transport of materials and equipment necessary for the works;
* Hiring and supervising unskilled labor from the village, giving priority to the unemployed
from the poorest families; and
= Maintaining the rehabilitated infrastructure by establishing a Maintenance Fund (corresponding
to two years of maintenance cost) that is jointly managed by the commune and a user
association/committee.
19.    Use of Private Contractors. During the pilot project, communes have been used to carry out
the works for the following reasons: (a) there are not yet private contractors in the isolated mountain
villages where the project has focused; (b) large contractors would not be interested by the small size of
the individual contacts, which are scattered over many districts; and (c) involving local authorities to the
greatest extent possible helps to prepare them for their future responsibility for local infrastructure. In
fact, communes have procured about 70 percent of subproject cost (materials, equipment, and transport)
from the private sector using local shopping (at least three price quotations). The Rural Development
Fund has trained communes in procurement, and has prepared, in consultation with private enterprises,
subcontracting contracts for use by communes.
20.   It is expected that small private contractors could become available in mountain areas during the
next few years. Under the Rural Development Project, subcontracting contracts will gradually become
more important, eventually reaching the stage when communes subcontract the entire works.
4/ The Rural Development Fund (which finances the works) verifies that the work undertaken and the costs correspond
to the subproject estimates.



ANNEX E
Page 5 of 10
21.    Average Subproject Cost. Average subproject costs used for budget estimations are based on
the figures in Table E.3.
Table E.3: Calculation of Avcrage Subproject Cost
Type of                   Unit Cost                          Quay              Cost per Subpoject (1,000
Rehabilitation Works     (1,000 Lek)                                                    Lek)
Roads                     80 per hn                           3 hn                           2,400
Water Supply              650 per kIn                         2 kom                          1,300
Buildings                4                                   200 n                            800
Irrigation               20 ha                               100 ha                          2,000
SUBPROJECT ALLOCATION AMONG DISTRICTs
22.    In order to assure equitable allocation of rural works among project districts, taking into
consideration rural poverty, districts have been evaluated on the basis of topography and arable land per
rural inhabitant and have been assigned a poverty coefficient ranging from 1.2 (for the poorest) to 0.8
(for the better off), as shown in Table E.4. Investment per district has been calculated by allocating
funds among project districts according to rural population, adjusted by the poverty coefficient (see Tables
E.6 and E.9).
Table E. 4: Albania District Rural Poverty Rankdng
No. of      No. of       Rural       Arable     Ha per    Poverty
DISTRICT           Topography   Communes   Villages   Population   Land (ha)   Person   Coefficient
Poorest
BULQIZE        Mountainous          6         60         37830         8100       0,21       120%
DIBER          Mountainous         15         138        94199        19365       0,21       120%
HAS            Mountainous          4         29         24100        6492        0,27       120%
KUKES           Mountainous        12          90        62564        11416       0,18       120%
LIBRAZHD       Mountainous          9         73         82464        15519       0,19       120%
M.MADHE        Plain                5         55         48650        15255       0,31       120%
MAT            Mountainous         12         85         60406        14123       0,23       120%
MIRDITE        Mountainous          7          80        39294         6318       0,16       120%
PUKE            Mountainous         7          74         39775        5165       0,13       120%
TROPOJE        Mountainous          7          65        35162         7390       0,21       120%
Subtotal                  84         749        524444      109143                   0,21
Poor
BERAT           Plain              10         120        91660        35522       0,39       110%
ELBASAN        Plain              21          174        118855       39221       0,33       110%
GRAMSH         Mountainous          9         92         33960        10360       0,31       110%
KUCOVA         Plain                2          1S        15612         5503       0,35       110%
PEGIN          Plain                5         49         27656         8523       0,31       110%
TIRANA          Plain              17         148        137046      33103        0,24       110%
Subtotal                  64         598        424789      132232                   0,31



ANNEX E
Page 6 of 10
No. of      No. of        Rural       Amble       Ha per    Poverty
DISTRICT            Topography   Communes   Villages   Population   Land (ha)   Person   Coefficient
Less Poor
DELVINE         Plain                4          48         20146        10466       0,52        90%
LAC             Plain                3          22         18082        10228       0,57        90%
MALAKASTER  Plain                    8          37         34867        14134       0,41        90%
PERMET          Mountainous          6          96         30026        14723       0,49        90%
SARANDE         Plain                5          51         25755        15359       0,60        90%
SHKODRA         Plain               15         135        120426       30243        0,25        90%
SKRAPAR         Mountainous          8         101         21930        12141       0,55        90%
TEPELENA        Mountainous          8          76         35822        13055       0,36        90%
VLORE           Plain               11          99         86666       37812        0,44        90%
Subtotal                   68         665        393720       158161                    0,40
Better-Off
DEVOLL          Plain                4          44         34377        15975       0,46        80%
DURRES          Plain                8          61         59840       26405        0,44        80%
FIER            Plain               14         108        131838       57031        0,43        80%
GIROKASTER   Mountainous            11          95         40430        17693       0,44        80%
KAVAJE          Plain                8          63         59500       25134        0,42        80%
KOLONJE         Mountainous          6          75         16011        11260       0,70        80%
KORCA           Plain               15         149        102089       47000        0,46        80%
KRUJE           Plain                5          41         35748        15231       0,43        80%
LEZHE           Plain                9          63         53125        18583       0,35        80%
LUSHNJE         Plain               15         113         89239       51136        0,57        80%
POGRADEC        Mountainous          7          72         49518        17506       0,35        80%
Sub Total                  102         884        671715      302954                    0,45
36 DISTRICTS                           318        2896       2014668       702490                    0,35
COMPONENT INVESTMENTS: CORE PROJECT
23.                   The Rural Development Project would finance a core prograrn of about 189 rural
works over three years. The potential scope of works to be undertaken is shown in Table E.5 Actual
subprojects to be undertaken would be proposed by villages, so the scope of works could differ.
Table E.S: Core Project: Potential Scope of Works
Type of Works      Number      Number       Number        Total      Percent    Investment    Investment
(PYI)      (PY2)        (PY3)                              (Mil. Lek)      (percent)
Roads                 23           20          18          61           32         219.7            43
Water Supply           13          13          13          39           21          79.8            16
Buildings              13          10           7           30          16          35.9             7
Irrigation              7          13          20          40           21         129.3            25
Other                   7           7           5           19          10          46.5             9
TOTAL              63          63           63         189          100        511.20           100



ANNEX E
Page 7 of 10
24.    Under the core program, the component would be limited to thirteen districts in order to have
a significant impact in each district; it would expand to other districts if additional cofinancing is secured
(see para. 28). In addition to these thirteen districts, rural works in four northeastern districts would be
financed by the Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project.
25.    Investment per district, based on rural population and the poverty coefficient described in para.
23, is shown in Table E.6 The following parameters were used to calculate the budget for the core
project:
* Investment per inhabitant:  .....      ....... 620 leks
* Investment per commune: average  .... ... 4,100,000 leks
minimum  ... ... 2,700,000 leks
maximum  ... ... 5,400,000 leks
* Investment per district:   average  .... ... 39,500,000 leks
maximum  ... ... 59,300,000 leks
Table E. 6: Core Project: Investment per District
No of      Population      Rural       Budget    No. of   Feeder R.
DISTRICT            Zone   Communes   Communes            Coef        1 000 L    Projets    1 000 L
M.MADHE               1           5          48650          90%       27000         10           0
SHKODRA               1           15        120426          90%       59300         22           0
MIRDITE               2           7          39294         120%       29200         11           0
PUKE                  2           7          39775         120%       29600         11           0
MAT                   3           12         60406         120%       44900         17           0
BULQIZE S.            4           3          18915         120%        14100         5           0
LIBRAZHD              4           9          82464         120%       48600         18           0
TIRANA                5           17        137046         110%        59300        22       27300
ELBASAN               6          21         118855         110%       59300         22           0
GRAMSH                6           9          33960         110%       24300          9           0
BERAT                 7           10         91660         110%       54000         20           0
KUCOVA                7           2          15612         110%        10600         4           0
SKRAPAR               7            8         21930          90%       21600          8           0
TOTAL (13 Districts)         125        828993                   481800        179       27300
26.    An estimated breakdown of costs for rural works financed under the core project is shown in
Table E.7
Table E. 7. Estimated Breakdown of Costs for Rural Works
Number of      Wages      Materials    Trnsport       Taxes        Other      TOTAL
Subprojecb
1995               63          38.7        45.7         34.3         11.3          6.4        136.4
1996               63          47.2        59.6         40.1         14.1          7.9        168.9
1997               63          56.3        76.5         46.1         17.2          9.8       205.9
TOTAL              189        142.2        181.8        120.5        42.6         24.1        511.2
28%         36%          24%           8%          5%         100%



ANNEX E
Page 8 of 10
COMPONENT INVESTMENTS: FULL SCALE PROJECT
27.    The rural works program can be progressively expanded and additional districts incorporated into
the project if additional cofinancing is secured. A proposed full-scale project, to be implemented over
three years, would entail 372 subprojects in twenty-seven districts (not including the four districts
supported by the Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project. The potential scope of works that
could be undertaken during the full-scale project is shown in Table E.8
Table E.8: Full-Scale Project: Potential Scope of Rural Works
Type of WorkB     Number      Number      Number         Total      Penent    Inveatmcnt    Inveamnot
(PYI)      (PY2)        (PY3)                              (Mil. Lek)      (pecnt)
Roads                 40           35          30          105          28         376.8            38
Water Supply           28          28          27           83          22         169.3            17
Buildings             28           21          14           63          17          75.0             8
Irrigation             14          28          41           83          22         268.2            27
Other                  13          13           14          40          11         100.3            10
TOTAL                 123         125          126         374         100         989.60          100
Table E.9: Full-Scale Project: District Budgets
DISTRICT         Zone      No. of       Rural    Poverty   Budget    No. of    Feeder R.
Communes  Population   Coef.   1 000 L    Projets         1 000 L
M.MADHE             1           5        48650      90%      30600         11             0
SHKODRA             1          15       120426      90%      63900         24             0
MIRDITE             2           7        39294    120%       33000         12             0
PUKE                2           7        39775    120%       33400         12             0
MAT                 3          12        60406    120%       50700         19             0
BULQIZE S.          4           3        18915    120%       15900          6             0
LIBRAZHD            4           9        82464    120%       55800         21             0
nIRANA              5          17       137046    110%       63900         24         29400
PEGIN               5           5        27656    110%       21300          8             0
ELBASAN             6          21       118855    110%       63900         24             0
GRAMSH              6           9        33960    110%       27900         10             0
BERAT               7          10        91660    110%       62000         23             0
KUCOVA              7           2        15612    110%       12000          4             0
SKRAPAR             7           8        21930      90%      24800          9             0
DURRES              8           8        59840      80%      33500         12         15400
KRUJE               8           5        35748      80%      20000          7         9200
LAC                 8           3        18082      80%      10100          4         4600
LEZHE               8           9        53125      80%      29800         11             0
KAVAJE              9           8        59500      80%      33300         12         15300
LUSHNJE             9          15        89239      80%      50000         19        23000
FIER               10          14       131838      80%      63900         24        29400
MALAKASTER         10           8        34867      90%      24800          9         11400
VLORE              11          11        86666      90%      54600         20             0
PERMET             11           6        30026      90%      18900          7             0
TEPELENA           11           8        35822      90%      24800          9             0
KORCE              12          15       102089      80%      57200         21            0
POGRADEC           12           7        49518      80%      27700         10             0
TOTAL (27 Districts)        247      1643009             1007700        372        137700



ANNEX E
Page 9 of 10
28.   Investment per district for the full-scale project is shown in Table E.9. Budget calculations
are based on the following parameters:
* Investment per inhabitant:   700 leks
* Investment per commune:    average ..... 4,700,000 leks
minimum .... 3,100,000 leks
maximum  ... 6,200,000 leks
* Investment per district:   average ..... 42,600,000 leks
maximum   . . .63,900,000 leks
RURAL INFRAsrRucTuRE DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION
29.        Geographic Zones. The Rural Infrastructure Department of the Rural Development Fund
would organize its operations by geographic zones, created in order to maximize operational efficiency
and subproject supervision. The following zones are proposed:
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROjECT (CORE PRoJECr)
Zn            Districts
1 .M.Madhe, Shkoder
2 .Puke, Mirdite
3 .           Mat
4 .Librazhd, Bulqize (south)
5 .Tirana, Peqin"'
6 .Elbasan, Gramsh
7 .Berat, Kucova, Skrapar
I/ Only if full-scale project is undertaken.
FULL-SCALE PRojECr
Zone          District
8 .Lac, Kruje, Lezhe, Durres
9 .Lushnje, Kavaje
10 .Fier, Malakaster
11.          Vlore, Tepelena, Permet
12 .Korce, Pogradec
NORTEASiERN DiSTRICT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IFAD-Financed Project)
Ze            Districts
IFAD 1 .... Tropoje
IFAD 2 .... Kukes, Has
IFAD 3 .... Diber, Bulqize (north)"
1/ Bulqize would be fuanced by the full-le pnrject, but would be included in tPAD Zone 3 for logisi mum.



ANNEX E
Page 10 of 10
30.    Department Staff.  Staff required in the Rural Infrastructure Department under different
financing scenarios is shown in Table E. 10.
Table E. 10: Departmental Staff Requirements
Position              Core Project    IFAD-       Subtotal    Incremental      TOTAL
Financed                 Staff Requird
NDRDP                    for Full-Scale
Pmject
Department Head            I                         I                            1
Assistant to Dept. Head    I           1            2              1              3
Inspectors                 7           3            10             5             15
Secretaries                I                         I             1              2
Drivers                    5                        5              1              6
TOTAL                     15           4            19             8             27
31.    Each infrastructure inspector would be assigned to cover a geographic zone (about two districts).
He/she would supervise about twelve works per year, in addition to assisting communes in identifying
and preparing potential subprojects.
32.    Equipment. The Infrastructure Department currently has four vehicles (four-wheel drive) and
two computers. The following incremental equipment is necessary for the Rural Development Project:
two computers, one photocopier. The full-scale project would require incremental equipment of: one
vehicle, one computer.
33.    Technical Assistance. One long-term consultant would be shared with the Urban Infrastructure
Department.
m:\aib\nsrdv\iar\,mxe.sar



ANNEX F
Page 1 of 7
ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX F
SMALL-SCALE CREDIT COMPONENT
I. THE PILOT PHASE
A. Overview
1.    During the pilot phase of the project, a financial intermediation system, based on village credit
funds (VCF), was developed and tested with the participation of 59 villages. VCFs are revolving
accounts made available to a village for small loans to farmers and microentrepreneurs for any type of
income-generating activity. Village funds-the amount of which is determined by a formula based on
village population-are deposited in the local branch of the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB). The VCF
is managed by a village credit committee (VCC), which is comprised of three elected village members;
representatives of RCB and the Albanian Development Fund (ADF--the successor to the Rural
Development Fund) are ex-officio members. The VCC decides on credit allocations, defines collateral,
and controls the repayment of loans, while the RCB keeps accounts and handles money.
2.    On average, a VCF totals about US$20,000, and funds are typically delivered to the village in
two or three tranches. The maximum loan duration is three years, and interest must be repaid at a
minimum of once per year. Maximum loan size is US$500 equivalent (in exceptional cases, they may
be up to US$1,000 equivalent). Loans are fixed to the US dollar at the time they are granted and are
repaid in US dollar equivalent (to capture inflation) plus 6 percent in transaction costs to reimburse the
RCB, ADF, and VCC, and provide for an emergency fund to help borrowers facing exceptional
repayment difficulties.
3.    Loan security is maximized by bringing loan decisions to the village level, where they are made
by neighbors who know potential creditors and who provide social support for timely repayment. As an
added security, in the case of repayment defaults, all credits to the village may be stopped.
4.    As of December 1, 1994, 59 VCFs have been established and funded in 7 districts: Diber,
Elbasan, Gramsh, Kruja, Librazhd, Tirana, and Vlora. Over 2,600 subloans have been disbursed, and
loan recovery, which began in November 1993, is 100 percent. A total of 72 subloans have been
completely repaid, and 798 subloans (30 percent) are in the process of being repaid.
5.    The main objective during this pilot phase was to alleviate poverty and work out a credit delivery
system adapted to the needs and constraints of small farmers. Figure F. I shows the steady progression
of loans granted, slowed down by an occasional lack of funds linked to the replenishment of the Special
Account.



ANNEX F
Page 2 of 7
Figure F.l: Subloans Granted Since Commencement of Pilot Project
Village Credit Fund Program
Number of Subloans
3000-
2500- 
2000
1 500-.
1500 -      IDA-Financed Pilot Project Begins
500   Pro-Pilot Phase 
a)        al        a)        a          am        a)        a          a)
>*      .6         ,.-         .                             >. 
0    W                                        Q.0
U                                       z         L-                             Z
6.      Loans average US$350 and range in length from  nine months to almost three years, depending
on the activity financed. There has been a continual diversification of activity financed, reflecting the
development of local markets-during the first three months (April-June 1993), 97 percent of credits were
used to purchase livestock. The overall use of credits during the pilot phase is shown in Figure F.2.
Figure F.2: Use of Credits
(As of December 1, 1994)
Draft Animals - 17%   Agncultural Inputs - 8%
Mechanization - 7%
Trade - 5%
Crafls & Services - 4%
Livestock- 59%



ANNEX F
Page 3 of 7
B. Impact of Small-scale Credit
7.    The impact of small-scale credit was evaluated by the ADF during a project impact study. The
findings can be summarized as follows:
* The target population consists mainly of poor and medium-income households. The richest
families, which need loans greater than US$500, are de facto excluded by a self-selection
process.
* Most loans have been granted to households with annual per capita income of less than
US$200. The poorest segment of the target population has an annual per capita income of
less than US$100. For this segment of the population, the increase in income resulting from
credit can be estimated at 15 to 70 percent. For medium-income households, loan amounts
are higher (US$300), but the increase of annual income is lower (approximately 30 to 50
percent).
In the poor households, where credit is mainly used for livestock, its initial impact is to
increase the work of women, but the nutritional impact has been substantial. In the medium-
income families, credit usually leads to the development of external services (transport,
tractor services, etc).
i Development of livestock is constrained by the availability of pastures and development of
agriculture is limited by a lack of irrigation, which usually requires higher investments at the
village or commune level.
* On the whole, the credits disbursed up until now have reached the general objective of
poverty alleviation. They provided enhanced food security and they initiated an important
development process. For the medium-income households, the maximum loan amount
(US$500) is already too low.
* The most important impact of the credit, however, is the creation of a new mentality that
stimulates farmers to think in terms of the future and alternative choices. It is not only a
financial instrument, but a psychological instrument that helps the population adjust to the
new market economy.
C. Issues to be Resolved
8.    Due to its process approach and to the active participation of the beneficiaries in the design of
the project, the VCF system can be regarded as a success in general terms. However, there are a number
of issues that must be resolved following the pilot phase:
(a) Mobilization of savings: Given the limited resources of the pilot project (the VCFs cover
only 59 villages out of 2,896, and each VCF addresses only a part of village credit needs),
mobilization of rural savings is a condition of extension.
(b) Legal status of the village credit funds:  Mobilization of savings creates a new
responsibility for the village credit committees and requires a clear legal status for the VCFs.



ANNEX F
Page 4 of 7
(c) Interest rate: While the rate of interest (6% on capital pegged to the dollar) was supposed
to be positive in real terms when the pilot project started, stability of the lek created an
overly favorable position for the borrowers. In this second phase, there would be a transition
to a real positive lek-based rate of interest.
(d) Subloan ceiling:  Although many farmers request higher loans, this issue should be
considered carefully. On the one hand, increasing loan ceilings would reduce resources
allocated to poor farmers and increase differences in income; on the other hand, the most
dynamic farmers should be given access to credit.
(e) Credit management and accounting: During the pilot phase, the limited number of
operations allowed the credit department to concentrate on the creation of village credit funds
and on the distribution of credit, while the accounting and administration of funds was
performed by RCB, which received a 2 percent fee for its services. The rather poor
performance of RCB branches, resulting from a lack of staff motivation (VCFs give them
additional work without additional compensation) and due to the rapidly increasing scale of
the operations, calls for a different loan management and accounting system.
(f) Financial sustainability: In 1994, the total amount of interest received by ADF will be
approximately US$14,000. The transaction costs at district level amount to approximately
US$17,000, including the salaries and operating costs of credit officers, the 2 percent fee of
RCB, and the I percent fee of the village credit committees. (District-level transaction costs
do not include the costs of headquarters in Tirana, nor technical assistance.) The interest
revenue covers about 80 percent of district-level transaction costs. As operations increase,
this coverage should become positive in 1995.
II. THE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Objectives
9.     The two main objectives of the Rural Development Project Small-Scale Credit Component ($4.3
million base costs) are:
(a) Extend the activities started under the pilot phase by using project resources ($4.1 million
base costs for credit), but also using the revolving funds of the pilot phase financed by IDA,
European Union and an Italian grant (totaling US$1.6 million), and the Northeastern Districts
Rural Development Project implemented by ADF (US$4.0 million). The total of US$9.7
million in outside resources for credit would be available to the VCF system.
(b) During the three-year project period, prepare for the creation of a sustainable financial
institution based on a Raiffeisen-type system with a special opening to poor farmers. This
objective would require a positive outcome for all issues listed above (para. 8).
B. Action Program
10.   In order to achieve these objectives, an action program has been established, as shown in
Table F. I.



Table F.l: Small Credit Component Action Program
Geographic                                                                                                   Follow-up/
Extension        Institutional Phase    Products/Outputs    Financial Structure         Training            Evaluation/
____________                                                                                                  Experimentation
Year 1     Deployment in     Register legal statute of  Individual and    Accounting performed   First formal training    Establish a follow-
11 Districts     VCFs under              group loans,         by ADF Finance         of credit officers.   up, evaluation, and
Foundation law          compulsory savings   Department. Parallel   Establishment of     experimentation unit
mobilization        accounting in the ADF   training manuals in    to develop new
Credit Department.     Albanian, study visits  products. Establish
Mobile village         and training abroad    follow-up network
cashiers
Year 2     Increasing the    Transform the VCF       Individual and       Equipment and          Implement full        Follow-up and
density of the   into Savings/Credit      group loans,         operating cost         program for           evaluation of
network within    Funds based on the      compulsory savings   accounting performed    qualification of credit  activities in year 1.
the existing 11   Cooperative Law and     mobilization. Start   by ADF Finance        officers. First       Testing of new
districts        initiate development of   experimentation     Department.            formal training of    products
regional federations    with voluntary       Autonomous adminis-   Village Credit
savings mobilization  tration of loans and  Committee members.
savings in Credit      Development of
Department of ADF      teaching documents
for client training
seminars
Year 3     Increasing the    Establish first federa-    Individual and    Establish bank         Establish a joint     Follow-up and eva-
density of the   tions and begin transfer   group loans,       accounting plan.      training center (if   luation of activities
network within    of responsibility from  compulsory and       Autonomous financial   financing available),   in year 2. Testing
the existing 11   ADF to federations      voluntary savings    management of the      start training        of new products and
districts                                 mobilization.        Credit Department      federation officials    following up the
Begin experimentation                        establishment of
with permanent                               cooperative
cashier offices.                             structures.
Post      Extension of the   Transfer of            Full range of        Transfer of financial    Full availability of  Transfer of
Project    network           responsibilities from    financial services   administration to     training for further   evaluation, follow-
ADF to National                              National               expansion of credit    up and
Confederation of VCFs                        Confederation of       network               experimentation unit
VCFs.  Reimbursed                            to the Confederation
revolving funds build
up equity of the new                                                             >
institution.                                                                     z
° X
m



ANNEX F
Page 6 of 7
11.    The program is based on the following assumptions:
12.    Location. The small credit program will be located in 11 districts, 7 financed under the Rural
Development Project (Elbasan, Gramsh, Librazhd, Kruja, Puka, Tirana, and Vlora) and 4 financed under
the Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project (Tropoje, Has, Kukes and Diber), for which ADF
is the implementing agency.
13.    Given the limited resources available, the preferred option would be to increase the density of
the VCF network at the district level rather than expand to new districts. This would also facilitate
optimizing the number of villages per credit officer and the overall institution-building process.
14.    Institution-building.  The institution building process will be carried out in four phases:
(a) A statute has been prepared for the VCF on the basis of the Foundation law of April 1993.
Although this legal basis is not fully satisfactory, VCFs are to be registered under this statute
beginning in the last quarter of 1994.
(b) A cooperative law is now under preparation and will be presented to the Government by the
Minister of Agriculture and Food before the end of 1994. This law could apply to not only
savings/credit cooperatives, but to all types of rural and urban associations. As a result,
considerable discussion of the bill will be required before its finalization. As soon as the law
is passed, the statute of the VCF will be changed and the VCFs will be registered under the
new law.
(c) The village credit funds will federate on a regional basis.
(d) ADF will transfer its management training, follow-up, and audit responsibilities to the
National Confederation of Village Credit Funds. The resources that have been put at the
disposal of the VCFs will be reimbursed to the Confederation and will become part of its
equity, serving to extend the network. The Confederation will become subject to the banking
law of April 28, 1994, while the VCFs themselves will remain subject to the cooperative law.
15.    The system would be built up gradually; a first federation of the VCFs would be organized at the
district level. An organizational chart of the future system is shown in Figure F. 3.
Figure F. 3: Organizational Chart
for the
Future Savings/Credit Cooperative System
Couintry                              | National Confederdbtnon
Dbtrlct, conuune                ' n      Iwo
viag       F VCF           VF  l                        F          l
Vlllte E[:S3                                                      I S  S31  



ANNEX F
Page 7 of 7
16.   Target population and financial services provided by the VCFs. The target population of the
VCFs comprises 493,000 small farms, as well as, in some regions, the landless rural population.
Although the loan ceiling would be increased to US$1,000, there would be no competition with the RCB,
which has high transaction costs for loans under US$3,000.
17.   The financial services would be kept as simple as possible and would comprise loans for income-
generating activities (average loan: US$600: maturity 2 years) with a possibility of group lending;
compulsory savings corresponding to 10 percent of the loan amount (already being tested in Gramsh
district); and voluntary savings/fixed deposits, timed according to the schedule of cashiers travelling
through the village for the collection of installments. The volume of these savings is very difficult to
predict. Projections have been made based on a percentage of credit distributed the previous year.
18.    All other financial services, such as housing loans, leasing, regular deposits, and insurance
schemes, are not yet feasible at the village level and would not be experimented before project year 3.
19.   Financial organization. An autonomous financial structure would be established progressively
by developing an independent loan management and accounting system parallel to the financial department
of ADF and the accounting system of RCB. RCB accounting of VCF loans is not very satisfactory and
the administration of funds is becoming increasingly problematic given the growth in operations.
Therefore, the agreement with RCB, whereby a 2 percent fee is paid on all VCF operations, will be
abandoned and ADF will become a normal RCB client. ADF will continue to transfer funds to the
districts through its local branches of RCB.
20.    As the total volume of loans per village is limited, each credit officer will be in charge of 10 to
20 villages. Beginning the second year, mobile cashiers will be responsible for disbursement of funds
from RCB to the villages, and for the collection of loan repayments and voluntary savings.
21.   Training. The good performance of the VCFs is largely due to the quality of its staff, trained
and challenged on the job. As the number of VCFs increases, a more organized training program must
be set up, based on the experience of the pilot phase. Training of the credit officers and village credit
committee members should be complemented by the training of regional staff and board members. A
cooperative training center could be set for this purpose if financing is made available.
22.   Evaluation and follow-up. Building up a savings/credit cooperative system requires a continuous
process approach and the participation of the village credit committee members. Testing different types
of organization, procedures, and services requires close follow up and evaluation.






ANNEX G
Page I of 6
ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX G
PROMOTION OF RURAL ACTIVITIES
I. BACKGROUND
1.    Prior to the democratic revolution in 1990/1991, all agricultural production in Albania was
organized on agricultural cooperatives and state farms, and even private livestock ownership was
prohibited. Under the land reform, which took place from 1991 to 1993, agricultural land and livestock
were distributed to the former cooperative and state farm workers, resulting in the creation of 493,000
small farms averaging 1.4 ha. Livestock markets were among the first markets to develop in remote rural
areas, and the number of livestock has increased in the last few years, especially in mountainous areas.
But due to the lack of farmers' cash and credit and the collapse of agricultural and livestock support
services, poor farmers face serious livestock constraints related to husbandry practices and animal health.
2.    The collapse of the public sector upstream and downstream from agriculture has also opened up
a number of opportunities for the creation of small production, trade or service units in rural areas, even
though labor mobility is still constrained by unemployment and housing problems, and land concentration
is delayed by legal difficulties. These microenterprises reflect the limited capital and management
capacities of the potential entrepreneurs, the number of which is increasing as market conditions improve.
3.    The main sub-sectors where microenterprises can be developed relatively rapidly are the
following:
(a) The dairy sub-sector: There is an opportunity to develop small milk processing plants to
supply urban markets, as well as cheese plants for goat and sheep milk that could be
produced at very competitive prices for export. The capacity of these plants should not
exceed 500 to 1,500 liters/day.
(b) Cereals processing: The small cereal mills functioning under private ownership are obsolete
but could be modernized with relatively little investment. Small bakeries and dried pasta
plants could be developed in many areas as rising farm incomes allow farm families to buy
their bread and some additional food.
(c) Fruit and vegetables processing could be developed in small processing units (jam, pickles,
tomato sauce) and using drying techniques at village level. These products could be
distributed in the domestic market, which is presently supplied mostly by imports from
Greece and Macedonia, while some products, like black cherries, could be exported.
(d) Olive oil: Traditional mills could be modernized by simply adding an engine. New
appropriate technologies could be developed at village level.



ANNEX G
Page 2 of 6
(e) Wine: Although most of the state vineyards have disappeared, there is a potential domestic
market for good quality wines, which can be produced by small wineries.
(f) Honey, aromatic plants and mushrooms, which were previously collected by state companies,
could become an important source of income for the mountain areas.
(g) Wool processing and carpet making could be rehabilitated at village level as a part-time
activity for women.
(h) Poultry and eggs production could be developed in small production units for the local
market.
(i) Carpentry, blacksmith, mechanical shops could be modernized and put to work relatively
quickly since the former cooperative artisans are still living in the villages but generally
jobless for lack of equipment and raw materials. Manufacturing of agricultural tools and
machinery maintenance is again becoming an important activity and an interesting market.
(j) Construction and building materials: This sector is expanding very rapidly in both rural and
urban areas. It offers a good opportunity for the creation of small tiles and bricks factories,
which require only a very small investment.
(k) Rural trade is developing rapidly, although the majority of traders are, up to now, located
in towns. This sector is closely connected to the development of transport, which also has
an important potential for growth.
(I) Rural tourism could become, progressively, a part-time activity in some areas.
11. EXPERIENCE UNDER THlE PILOT PROJECT
4.    In accordance with the process approach, the methods and procedures for the component have
been established on the basis of lessons learned during the pilot phase.
5.     Supportfor Livestock. Despite the collapse of animal health support services in Albania, nearly
60 percent of village credit fund subloans have been used to purchase livestock. During the pilot project,
it was recognized that improved village-wide prophylaxis would not only strengthen the village credit fund
program, but would have a significant economic impact on poor farmers and would advert the possibility
of village health problems caused by animal diseases and parasites. In early 1994, the ADF Credit
Department began developing, using participatory methods, a program to support prophylaxis in the
commune of Gjinar of Elbasan District. A village animal health association was created, consisting of
the local veterinarian and all farmers with livestock. In exchange for a unanimous agreement by the
farmers to regularly vaccinate and treat their livestock, the ADF agreed to partially pay for vaccinations
and provide basic veterinary equipment to the local veterinarian. The program has been very successful
to date, and is being replicated in additional villages.
6.     Transfer of Technology. Under the pilot project, two types of pilot actions have been undertaken
by ADF to transfer appropriate small-scale technology:



ANNEX G
Page 3 of 6
(a) Three agricultural processing projects have been started in the most important sub-sectors
with the support of the Ministry of Agriculture and specialized research institutes:
(i)   In Tregan (Elbasan district), a goat cheese production unit, which collects milk in 5
villages and processes 500 liters per day, has been designed as a model of training-
production unit.  This unit was suppose to function for two years under the
responsibility of RDF before being transferred to local private farmers. The Board
decided that the production unit should belong to the private sector from the
beginning, which has created a number of institutional, legal, and financial problems.
Solving these problems was beyond the capacities of an inexperienced and changing
technical staff. The decision taken consists finally in renting the unit to a local private
association of farmers, which could buy it on credit after one year. Although the
plant was built under the supervision of the rural works department, the equipment has
been imported and the technician has been trained, full production may not begin
before the next season (April 1995).
(ii) In Melan (Diber district), a fruit processing project established in a 600 ha. fruit-tree
production area, was designed to create a model "common facility center" for
sterilizing and canning farm-made jams. For the same reasons as those found in
Tregan, the orientation of the project has had to be changed. The project was
considerably delayed to allow for the creation of a private association of 15 producers,
and was suppose to be implemented in two phases: market tests on farm made
products in 1994, and establishment of the canning unit in 1995 if the results of the
tests are positive. The cost of the total investment was estimated at about $10,000 to
15,000. The ADF executive committee decided in July 1994 to postpone the project
considering that the conditions of its success were not met.
(iii) In Viora district, an olive oil project has been developed to include two components:
the modernization of traditional oil mills by adapting their engines, and the creation
of a small privately owned model oil mill.  The whole project would cost
approximately $10,000. The olive season begins in November, and the project is now
under preparation.
(b) A project to rebuild an entire supply-production-marketing chain for seed potatoes. This
project, implemented in Stebleva (Librazhd district), was based on 70 small farms and is
being implemented in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, the specialized institute,
and the credit department of ADF.
7.     While all projects were well performed from the technical point of view, they revealed the
ambiguities of the transition period:
(a) On the side of the Administration, there is a strong will to privatize, yet management remains
very centralized;
(b) On the side of the farmers, there is a strong desire to create independent processing units for
their products, but they are still trying to get all possible assistance from the state without
taking any risk themselves;



ANNEX G
Page 4 of 6
(c) On the side of the ADF, there is a communication gap between local staff, who have no
experience with private enterprise creation, and technical assistance personnel, who have
no experience with the workings of a centrally-planned economy.
8.    The difficulties experienced during the pilot phase, along with the increasing number of private
initiatives emerging in the villages, helped to redefine the microenterprise component and make it as
demand-driven as the rest of the project.
III. OBJECTIVES
9.     The main objectives of the Promotion of Rural Activities component are to (a) help improve
village-wide prophylaxis; and (b) provide support for the development of non-farm activities in order to
provide additional sources of income to complement the relatively small agricultural income and provide
employment opportunities to the rural population.
IV. SUBCOMPONENTS
10.   To support the above objectives and draw lessons from the pilot phase, the proposed promotion
of rural activities component would support the following activities:
11.    Veterinary Support (US$100,000). Under the component, the ADF would establish and support
the creation of village animal health associations to improve prophylaxis in villages with village credit
funds. The animal health associations, which would consist of voluntary independent associations
representing private farmers and veterinarians, would organize the vaccination and treatment of all village
livestock. The statutes of the animal health associations shall be at all times acceptable to IDA and the
ADF Board of Trustees. In villages where there is established a village credit fund and an animal health
association in good standing, the ADF may contribute financially toward village-wide prophylaxis,
according to the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement signed by the village chief, authorized
representative of the animal health association, and the authorized representative of veterinarian services.
The model agreement shall be at all times acceptable to IDA and ADF's Board of Trustees.
12.   Microbusiness Advisory Service (US$SIS,OOO). The project would provide business and technical
advice to approximately 600 microentrepreneurs or groups of microentrepreneurs by helping them to
prepare a business plan, choose the right technology, find information about available equipment, and
advising them on the legal procedures for creating a microenterprise. For the purpose of the project, a
microenterprise is defined as sole proprietorship, partnership, or family business that has fewer than five
employees. In this demand-driven approach, the "common facilities centers" would not be created a
priori, but only if established by a producers' organization. The ADF Department of Rural Activities
and Microenterprises will be assisted in its work by a network of local consultants recruited on a service
basis among previous cooperative and state farm specialists and/or within the specialized institutes. The
advisors will receive special training.
13.   The advisory service would work in conjunction with village credit funds in order to create
synergy--but not mandatory interdependence--between business advice and credit distributed under the
same project. The microentrepreneurs would be free to seek other sources of financing--especially from
the Rural Commercial Bank--just as and the Village Credit Committees would apply their normal
procedures and loan ceilings ($ 1,000 per borrower) and would be free to approve or reject a loan request.



ANNEX G
Page 5 of 6
14.   Cooperation would be sought with the SME Foundation and the FAO-sponsored agribusiness
advisory units, especially in the field of basic business training of the staff and local consultants. This
cooperation cannot be extended to all fields of intervention, since the microentrepreneurs and the projects
targeted by ADF are far below the level targeted by these institutions, and the methods applied quite
different from those used for SME promotion.
15.   Marketing and Technical Research and Technical Assistance (US$166,000). The component will
support marketing and technical studies for key subsectors, and the ADF will set up and maintain, in
liaison with technical institutes in Albania and aborad, a database on, inter alia, small technologies,
equipment, suppliers, and prices. The component will also finance six months of technical assistance.
V. IMPLEMENTATION
16.   Since microenterprises support issues are very similar in rural and urban areas, economies of
scale can be maximized by implementing the rural and urban components under the guidance of the same
department of the Albanian Development Fund..
17.   An annual workplan and budget would be established and revised during an evaluation seminar
held every three months with the participation of the credit department and of the foreign microenterprises
consultant.
18.   An internal monitoring and follow-up system will be set up to (a) assess how villagers are
benefitting from improved prophylaxis; (b) assess the number of microenterprises that will receive
information and advice, and the time spent on each of them; and (c) collect and process information on
microenterprise projects subsectors. An analytical accounting system will facilitate close monitoring of
the cost of microenterprise advice being provided. Once the system is established and proves to be
effective, a small contribution could be requested from the microentrepreneurs.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
19.   Benefits. Assuming that an average of three jobs are created per microenterprises established,
the 600 microenterprises supported by the project would benefit approximately 1,800 rural households
and about 10,000 persons.
20.   The component will have a direct effect on reducing losses and adding value to the local
production. It will slow down migration to the cities, which are not able to absorb surplus labor. Above
all, however, the project will have an important demonstration and training effect by helping to adapt
mentalities to the market economy and improving skills and technologies while adjusting them to the new
agrarian structure and to the limited markets and investment capacities
21.   Risks. The main difficulty, already experienced during the pilot phase, is the lack of experience
of both advisers and beneficiaries in the creation of microenterprises. Overcoming this difficulty will
require a great deal of training, information and making some initial mistakes on which any kind of
experience can be built. The demand-driven approach would limit this risk.
22.    Finally, a general problem for development of small business is the weakness of the existing
market and, more specifically, the weakness of the rural markets. This problem can be partially
addressed by good coordination with the urban project. One could help to organize the supply of urban



ANNEX G
Page 6 of 6
microenterprises (like carpet or kilim producers) with raw materials from the rural areas (like wool).
Inversely, one could market some urban products (e.g. mechanical products) in rural areas. Both of
these approaches would benefit both urban and rural enterprises.
23.    Also, the ADF Infrastructure Department can provide some captive markets (for instance for
bricks) to help start new microenterprises, and quality improvement could be a good basis to start
commercial promotion for Albanian products facing competition from imported products.
m:aIb\nudev\nnexg.=r



ANNEX H
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEX H
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
As a result of the on-going Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (C. 2461-ALB), the
implementation framework for the Rural Development Project is largely in place. Some key actions and
dates are shown in the Implementation Schedule below.
Implementaton Schedule for 1994 and 1995
Target Dates                            Action                         Implementing Agency
Pre-Effectiveness Actvities:
completed 9/94        Passage of Government decree transforming    Chairman of the ADF Board of
the RDF into the ADF, and official         Trustees
appointment of ADF Executive Director
completed 8/94 -      Training of ADF staff in: project          ADF I IDA
12/94                 management, monitoring and evaluation
completed 12/94       Rehabilitation of additional office space  ADF
completed 12/94       Preparation of revisions to the Manual of  ADF I IDA
Procedures, submitted to IDA for prior
review
12/94                 Preparation of terms of reference, letter of    ADF
invitation, and short-list for 1994 project
audit
12/94 - 1/95          Preparation of 1995 Annual Work Programs   ADF / IDA
and Budgets for each project component,
submitted to IDA for prior review
1/95                  Internal reorganization of ADF             ADF
1/95                  Recruitment of additional staff            ADF
1/95 - 3/95           Preparation for procurement of additional  ADF
computers (technical specifications, letter of
invitation, etc.)
1/95 - 3/95           Preparation for procurement of additional  ADF
furniture and other office equipment
1/95 - 3/95           Preparation for recruitment of additional  ADF
consultants
1/95 - 2/95           Participation in World Bank procurement    ADF
workshop in Tirana



ANNEX H
Page 2 of 2
Target Dates                           Action                         Implementing Agency
Implementation Activities:
4/95                  Project Effectiveness
4/95                  Procurement of Computers, Office           ADF
Equipment, Furniture
4/95                  Registration of VCFs under the Cooperative    ADF
Law
8/96                  Mid-Term Review                           Government I IDA
As regards the three components:
Target Dates                        Action                        Implementing Agency
Rural Works:           There are no specific action required; the
activities are already underway
Small Scale Credit:1
Pre-Effectiveness Activities:
completed 8/94 to      Training in cooperative banking
12/94
completed 8/94 to      Registration of VCFs under Foundation Law    ADF
12/94                  (as a provisional measure)
completed 9/94 - 12/94   Drafting of Cooperative Law              IDA/consultants
11/94 - 12/94          Discussion of draft Cooperative Law within  Ministry of Agriculture
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry
of Industry and Trade
1/95                   Passage of Cooperative Law by Parliament   Parliament
Microenterprise Support
Implementation
1/95 to 6/95           Training in microenterprise promotion and
business advice.
Creation of a network of local consultants.
Establishment of relations with foreign small
technology and microenterprise centers.
Creation of a Database
I - For detailed implementation plan, see Annex F.
=b _ x



IBRD 2612CR
\   3c 3C              1 9 0                   1 9'30
FED. z   jREP.                 OF    YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA! ,I                                                                        ,
42 3G                1%
/MALE Si 
E MADHE    \TROPO   %
t             '/    NTROPOJom--.
A' "Kophk,            -t        fAs
SHKODER                                                         _
/ShEode~~~           PUKE           ' 
4' 2°                                       ;;        /          _   >S   ). K          / *  U K/t/    , *     .  
9200                                                 j                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UKES
ALBANIA                              -                         -E       .
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              MIR E  U  N
SUBPROJECTS FINANCED BY THE RURAL                             L z         I                      DI,8 ,*"
POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT                                             Rreshen  /
AS OF JUNE 15, 1994                                  ,*                                         l ,'p
LACO Lo.     brel8 \\                ;
N       -~~~~~~~~~~~-
RURAL WORKS-                             -          KRUJE KR               \.\
41 30              U      RURAL ROADS                             UMAT E. Y FY  R.
DURRES                                     L 0 .  Z'  *,BUQIE -
3    FOOTBRIDGES                                          *       0 ,                                  MACEDONIA
*     HEALTH CENTERS                                     1 m      N
13    SCHOOLS                           Dur:7fxj              eTRAE/ ~           vr '        v
WATER SUPPLY                     D* .                   TIRANE
IRRIGATION                                    V                   *( . 
VILLAGE CREDIT FUNDS BY COMMUNE                  *KaV-ji                             i I8RAZHOi
EL   (NUMERAL INDICATES NUMBER OF                                              Lbd
VILLAGE CREDIT FUNDSI                      KAVAJE                ELASA
O    DISTRICT CENTERS                                                       E E    \                      \
6 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                          0)           *             '
41 0                    RIVERS                                                             1m
-      DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                            LUSHNJE                 *" '      ' -.
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                    GRLAShnje\ /    6 jOGRAdEC  _    * .
/           T  5~~~;:;  *     GRAMSH\ PogrodecO)-.  
ELEVATIONS IN METERS                             E                    K ooe Y              * V_
1200                                       Fier @leo@~                       
20099o,                                           <   ~  2   BERATS 2Be                    KORCE    J      DE  EL
M <    _  gALLAKASTER  d SKRAPAR
A
,EPELENE.                                 f
0   ) VLOREa <   .PERMET   I KOLONJE
\@ rn               *Tep~elee46 '<  \< '
ITALY                                                            o.                                             N
<-  >   {       G~IO KA S T       
0    IO   20   30   40   50                                     I DELVINE
KJLOMETERS                                     S        \     _   *   .
GREECE
I     SARANDE
18 3T                  19D00'                  19;30'                  20'00'
JANUARY 1 995






IBRD 261 21 R
1 8 3C     I                1 9 00                     1 9 30                    2 . . 
-s<<!                                    ~~~~~~~~~~FED.    $ .REP.           OF    YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA ! I 
42 30                  1 %                                                      EH    X-         T 3e         4t 
MA7@    LE          _         ,              '< 
-42 00                                                                                         f                           Kt    j
ALBANIA                                          Lweh) .     @rr5e             DX DBR 
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                             7:-PSkp 
PROJECT DISTRICTS                                Fushe K.9. 6'1D LC@ Lc    Ulz*                  <
KR'mUJu            MA 'TS  
PROJECT DISTRICTS:                                     h      Kle                 Huq          t
~~ 41 30     1 =       ~~~RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS             DU  RN K,.Ibo       r*¢ '6                                     
I 1 VILLAGE CREDIT FUNDS AND                                t_        .    \,BULOIZEL.                        M CE O I
LIVESTOCK/MICROENTERPRISE SUPPORT                                                                        MACEDONIA  Nt    \ ,  
|NORTHEASTERN DISTRICTS RURAL                ShIc k o                         '''   'Ij
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                  Durre @             Kt9                   ,, 
O DISTRICT CENTERS ,   \+#)l 
O    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 @Kcse         ^1~'rnl                    nb\
2  RIVERSKAAE                                                    -fi        .                  <      s
DISTRICT BOUNDARIESPEI                                                      Eo    .\            n     . 
-  INTERNATIONALHBOUNDARIES                    jr            3       Dh$tA A     
LUSHNJE                ,' <,/ ;               <1 r.      \
u shn eS>, Kola n                   YpA GtPO  R A D) F C _    \ 
KUXCGE '  
FIER       nnei       \i)                  .    '        ; 
Fer 13  p      Hr10><e j              \, .
-oX;             j   6~~~ERAT_                       kOLF            :DVIi
"kDrenov:dMALLAK(A5Q.        h    SKRAPAR"?7-h13 >UX1
40 30                                                                X       aOieUj        .t         L     ,t da                    
, VeLORE      \K   e         
Mrs-rove         '    -TEPELENEt         \           *  
>   W                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~PERMET  kO(DIONJ1E,
ITALY                                                        ! ',   * W~~~~~~~~~~~~G-ROKASTER\
|DELVINE'  
KILOMETERS                                          swwd   N          * .KWz
Sarnnd    , J    \GREECE                      
I  SARANDE 
r4L,      rnl Vd 0      o
L    ~          18"30                     I09 I-,30'                                          20-100                    .X
JAN UAR Y 1 99 5



