Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20647
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(26800; 21558)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.1 MILLION (US$6.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
ALBANIA
FOR AN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 27, 2000
Albania Country Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 11/99)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek 100 = USS 0.75
US$ 1.00 = Lek 134
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF           Albanian Development Fund
ASAC          Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
CAS           Countiy Assistance Strategy
EU            European Union
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ha            hectare
IDA           International Development Association
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF           International Monetary Fund
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOP           Memorandum of the President
NGO           Non-Govenmmental Organization
OED           Operations Evaluation Departnent
O&M           Operations and maintenance
PY            Project Year
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RCB           Rural Commercial Bank
RDP           Rural Development Project
RDF           Rural Development Fund
RFF           Rural Finance Fund
RPAPP         Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SCA           Savings and Credit Association
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
VCC           Village Credit Committee
VCF           Village Credit Fund
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager/Director:    Kevin Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Kathryn Funk



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Albania
Rural Development Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   12
6. Sustainability                                                                       15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        16
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                       17
9. Partner Comments                                                                     19
10. Additional Infornation                                                              19
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   34.
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                     35
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                   42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Proj,ect ID: P008273                                      Project Name: ALBANIA RURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Mark C. Woodward                             TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: June 22, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ALBANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT    L/C/TFNuimber: 26800; 21558
CountrylDepartment: ALBANIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AC - Agricultural Credit; AG - Agency Reform; AM
- Agro-Industry & Marketing; AY - Other
Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/21/94                                Effective: 05/23/95           05/23/95
Appraisal:  06/16/95                                  MTR: 11/14/96             11/14/96
Approval:  02/14/95                                Closing: 06/30/99            12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA/ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Arntraud Hartmann                         Kermal Dervis, Department Director
Sector Manager:      Alexandre Marc                            Rory O'Sullivan, Divsion Chief
Team Leader at ICR:   Mark Woodward                            Maria Nowak
ICR Primary Author:   Gillian M. Perkins
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS:=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrowver Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: HS                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context. The objectives and the design of the Rural Development Project (RDP) need to be assessed in the
context of (i) the exceptional economic, political and institutional conditions prevailing in Albania and (ii)



the process of program development of which the RDP has formed part. When the government initiated its
Rural Poverty Alleviation Program in 1992, the Albanian economy was in deep crisis-the centrally
planned system had entirely collapsed and nothing yet existed to take its place. Rural infrastructure, already
poor, had seriously deteriorated through lack of maintenance, damage during the unrest in 1990, and by
scavenging of materials for private use. Albania's newly created small farms, averaging only 0.7 ha per
family in hilly and mountainous areas, lacked capital, credit, inputs, and basic tools, and there were
practically no rnarkets. The result was critical rural poverty and almost total dependence on food aid and
other assistance. In response to these crisis conditions, the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Cr.
2461 -ALB) was processed quickly under streamlined procedures, with pre-pilot activities largely
substituting for traditional project preparation and appraisal. This pre-pilot phase was the first of a 4-phase
Program:
Phase 1: Pre-pilot phase (August 1922-April 1993). Funding from the UNDP (US$200,000) and from
Freres d'Esperance ($20,000) was used to finance the first village and farm surveys and to test
organizational approaches for ten rural works projects and seven village credit funds.
Phase 2: Pilot phase (April 1993-June 1995). The Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project was financed
by IDA, EU-PEIARE, an Italian grant and a French grant, for a total of US$7.5 million. Adopting a
learning-by-doing, participatory approach, the project set up an autonomous implementing agency, the
Rural Development Fund, which was remarkably effective in directly impacting rural areas, channeling
funds quickly to small projects, and delivering credit to small farmers and micro-entrepreneurs through
village credit funds.
Phase 3: Full-scale rural project andpilot urban project (May 1995-December 1999). The Rural
Development Project used IDA, EU, Italian, Swiss, and French funding, totaling US$ 12 million, to extend
the rural works and microcredit activities. At this stage, the implementing agency was trans.^ormed into the
Albanian Development Fund (ADF), and the works and micro-credit approaches were piloted in urban
areas, under the Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project. During the last year of the RDP,
implementation of the microcredit functions was separated from the ADF into specialized financial
entities-the Rural Finance Fund for rural credit and the Besa Foundation for urban credit.
Phase 4: Follow-on projects (effective in mid- 1999). Based on the separation of the works and credit
functions, two new projects are now being implemented, the Community Works Project and the Microcredit
Project, each covering both rural and urban areas.
This program approach made it possible to incorporate lessons from each phase in the next, and to continue
adjusting operations to changing realities in Albania. The Rural Development Project-the subject of this
ICR-covered the difficult phase of transition from an innovative, highly participatory pilot, drawing on
exceptional capability and personal commitment of a few key individuals, to large scale implementation
with formalized institutions for sustained operation.
The original objectives of the Rural Development Project (RDP), as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report,
were to:
*      promote small farm and off-farm activities and help create a rural market economy;
*      repair basic rural infrastructure; and
*      create employment for the rural population and inject cash resources into rural households.
- 2 -



These objectives were essentially the same as those of the preceding Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot
Project. Sub-objectives were identified in the SAR for each of the two major components. For the rural
works component, specific objectives were to:
*      rehabilitate and improve small rural infrastructure that is indispensable for
economic activity or for the well-being of village inhabitants;
*      provide employment in rural areas; and
*      help local authorities develop the necessary skills to foster local development.
Specific objectives of the small-scale credit component were to:
*      extend activities under the Village Credit Fund system that was started under the Rural Poverty
Alleviation Project, using project resources and the revolving funds generated from the pilot phase;
*      prepare for the creation of a sustainable financial institution based on a Raiffeisen-type
[savings and credit] system with a special opening to poor farmers.
These objectives reflected essential priorities for rural development in Albania at that time, as identified
both by the governnent and by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. They were consistent with
government strategy for rebuilding the rural economy, through active poverty alleviation, restoring food
security, and promoting the small private sector. They also reflected the priorities identified in the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy, which called for "a flexible strategy that responds quickly to new inforrnation
while maintaining an overall framework that promotes (i) stability and (ii) new entrepreneurship and
private initiative." Of particular importance in the circumstances, the objectives were realistic in terms of
(i) demonstrated capacity of the implementing agency and (ii) the extreme political and institutional
constraints and related project risks.
The objectives were necessarily quite general, to allow flexibility in response to changing constraints and
opportunities. However, more clarification of the objectives could have highlighted from the outset the
potential trade-offs within limited implementing capacity, in particular between the outreach objectives for
poverty alleviation and the speed of changing and formalizing the institutional framework.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No formal revision of objectives was required during the course of project implementation because the
original objectives were stated in quite general terns. Nevertheless, some shift in emphasis was apparent in
implementation of the microcredit component, from poverty outreach objectives to rapid institutional
change for financial sustainability.
3.3 Original Components:
To support the above objectives, the project would finance the following components:
A.     Rural works (base costs US$5 million = 45%). Organize, finance, and help to carry out
approximately 190 rural works that rehabilitate small infrastructure.
B.     Small-scale credit (base costs US$4.3 million = 38%). Establish and fund approximately 135
village credit funds to extend the existing village credit fund network and provide small loans to more than
9,000 farmers and rural microentrepreneurs for income-generating activity.
C.     Promotion of rural activities (base costs US$0.4 million = 4%). In coordination with village
credit funds, provide business and technical advice to approximately 600 rural microentrepreneurs, and
- 3 -



promote and support the establishment of village animal health associations to improve prophylaxis.
D.    Studies and local government training (base costs US$0.2 million = 2%). Finance beneficiary
assessment studies to evaluate project impact and help guide components. Organize training and study
tours to equip local government with the skills necessary for promoting local development in rural areas.
E.    Implementation support (base costs US$1.3 million = 11%). Finance related equipment and
operational costs of the Albanian Development Fund (ADF).
3.4 Revised Comnponents:
There was no major revision of components but some adjustments were needed, primarily because of the
extra work involved in protecting core activities through the 1997 civil crisis:
- The small component for promotion of rural activities was not fully implemented. The planned
micro-business advisory service (provision of US$130,000) and the marketing and technical research
(provision of US$83,000) were considered not to be urgent priorities as the majority of loans were to
subsistence farmers, most investments were not complex, and ADF's credit officers were able to provide
the necessary advice. In addition, ADF lacked the capacity to handle significant supplementary activities,
because of the efforts needed to sustain the performance of village credit funds through the build up and
collapse in 1997 of the pyramid schemes. Activities under this component were confined to veterinary
assistance to support livestock investments.
- Systematic training and study tours (for which US$50,000 was originally allocated) were not
implemented for local government staff, mainly because of high turnover of these staff following the 1996
local elections, and the growing instability that culminated in the 1997 civil crisis. Nevertheless, as ADF
provided substantial hands-on training during sub-project implementation, the institutional development
impact did not depend on this small sub-component for formal training.
- The balance of funding between the works and microcredit components shifted in favor of works: funding
to the credit component amounted to just over 20% of total expenditure under the project, compared with
38% originally envisaged. Project staff suggested this was due to the greater stress imposed on credit
activities by the pyramid schemes and the 1997 crisis; however, annual data suggest that the rural works
activities were more strongly affected at this time than the credit It does seem, however, that the Kosovo
crisis caused microcredit activities to be frozen in a few districts during the last year of the project. A
further explanation for the slower disbursement under the credit component is that the capacity of credit
staff was stretched by the demands of institutional changes, including separating the credit function from
the ADF, and preparing the basis for Savings and Credit Associations. However, since both components
substantially achieved their output objectives, the original costings may not have been realistic.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on the strength of (i) consistency of objectives with the
priorities for rural development and poverty alleviation, (ii) successful experience and lessons learned under
the pilot project, (iii) demonstrated capacity of the implementing agency, and (iv) project design, which
accounted for institutional constraints and risks by incorporating flexibility and by fostering ownership at
the community level. A QAG assessment carried out in September, 1996, rated Quality at Entry as Best
Practice, citing the strength of government ownership, the capacity of the implementing agency, and the
clear focus of benefits on the poor in rural areas. Project fornmulation was considered to be a model for
preparation of village-based development programs in country conditions of transition, crisis, or rapid
social change. The SAR documented the project and its background particularly well while the MOP
-4 -



accurately assessed potential political developments which could contribute to project risks. However, with
the benefit of hindsight, one important shortcoming was the lack of agreed monitoring indicators: agreement
on a formal set of performance indicators was not a Bank requirement at the time the project was prepared.
Potential trade-offs between objectives were not explicitly identified. In addition, project design should have
incorporated more emphasis on financial transparency in management of the credit component.
The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Albania, which was discussed
by the Board in August 1993, and which called for "a flexible strategy that responds quickly to new
information while maintaining an overall framework that promotes (i) stability and (ii) new
entrepreneurship and private initiative." The rural works component aimed to assist private enterprise
development and also to enhance stability by providing immediate and visible results. The small scale credit
component was designed to develop new entrepreneurship and private initiative. The project's bottom-up
methodology complemented other IDA-financed projects in Albania that supported structural change at the
national level or major infrastructural needs.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs under the RDP was satisfactory. Considering the degree of
economic, political and civil instability during the first two years of project implementation (see 5.1), and
the challenges inherent in scaling up participatory operations and establishing formal institutions for
sustained operation, the achievements of the project have been remarkable. Output targets for both rural
works and microcredit were substantially met, although over a somewhat longer time frame (4.5 years)
than the 3 years originally envisaged. In addition, the transition to a legally endorsed institutional
framework for continued operation was accomplished. The most significant shortcoming was weakness in
ensuring sustainability of the benefits of the rural works sub-projects, through community participation,
and through systematic definition, monitoring and follow up of O&M arrangements.
Assessment is slightly hindered by the lack of clear prioritization of objectives or specification of
performance indicators in the SAR. Priorities were influenced to some extent by changing constraints and
opportunities during the course of project implementation-consistent with the essentially flexible character
of the project. The potential trade-offs were not always identified explicitly. In the case of rural works,
there was an implicit trade-off for example between the objective of improving stability-through
immediate and visible results from maximizing the number and geographical distribution of infrastructure
sub-projects-and the longer term benefits of more intensive work at the village level to ensure sustainable
operation of the infrastructure. Building community ownership of sub-projects, and securing commitment
to workable plans for future operation and maintenance, would have taken significant staff resources and in
some cases delayed sub-project implementation. Without key monitoring indicators to focus attention on
these processes, the pressure to meet physical output targets prevailed.
The impact and sustainability of works sub-projects might have been enhanced by coordination with
village-level capacity building activities under the credit program. However, potential synergies between the
two programs were not fully exploited, partly because communities themselves felt that the benefits from
the project as a whole should be spread to as many villages as possible. The project did target Italian grant
funds to some of the poorest villages that had Village Credit Funds; and the success of these efforts
suggested that, with more coordination between the two main components, project impact might have been
even greater than it was.
A different emphasis prevailed within the microcredit component. The trade-off was apparent here between
- 5 -



the poverty outreach objective, "injecting cash resources into rural households,"-through extending the
proven mechanism of Village Credit Funds (VCFs) to as many villages as possible-and the demands of
institution4l change to achieve financial sustainability. This trade-off was highlighted in 1996 by the QAG
Quality at Entry mission, when it was clear that the institutional changes were absorbing a large share of
staff resources. The mission recommended putting the focus on expansion of the uniquely successful
existing VCF program, which was still too small to make a significant nationwide impact on poverty, and
cautioned against driving too hard for rapid institutional change. Nevertheless, the focus in implementation
remained on the institutional transformation, and hence on strengthening existing VCFs in the most
economically viable villages, in preparation for their transformation to Savings and Credit Associations
(SCAs). This was in large part a response to the demand (confirmed through beneficiary assessments) for
more and larger loans from existing VCF clients, when the only altemative source of rural credit (the
state-owned Rural Commercial Bank) ceased operations. At the same time, it became clear that the relative
lack of investment opportunities in remote mountainous villages constrained the potential impact of the
microcredit program and the demand for loans at market interest rates in the poorest communities.
A choice was presented between (i) focusing on the poverty alleviation objective, expanding the benefits of
the VCFs to more districts, and accepting that continuing dependence on subsidies would deter efficiency
and long term sustainability, and (ii) intensifying activities in the economically strongest regions, in order to
transform VCFs rapidly into private, financially sustainable institutions (SCAs). The latter course was
favored, and has been endorsed in the follow-on Microcredit Project which does not include the creation of
any new VCFs. The point here is not to make a judgement on this decision. The proposed transfomnation of
VCFs to SCAs presents a unique opportunity to create a sustainable rural credit system in Albania, when
virtually no altemative financial institutions exist in the country. It is not clear, however, that the costs-in
foregoing the potential poverty alleviation (and village-level capacity-building) impact of further expansion
of the VCF network-were fully examined. A possible middle course would have been to continue
expanding the VCF network, making any grant element explicit in loans to borrowers in the poorest
villages, while using a slower, bottom-up approach to piloting the savings function in a few strong VCFs.
The basic problem that was identified-the need for financial transparency and efficiency incentives in
managing the credit program-could have been addressed independently of the rate of transition to an SCA
network.
4.2 Outtputs by comnponents:
A.    Rural Works
Outputs
Under the project, the ADF financed a total of 173 sub-projects for rehabilitation of rural infrastructure,
against an original target of 190; the target would have been exceeded but for the sharp decline in
implementation during the political crisis in 1997. Geographical distribution of sub-projects was more
extensive than originally envisaged, covering 30 (instead of 13) of the country's 36 Districts, and almost
half the country's 318 Commnunes. The number of beneficiaries in communities with RDP sub-projects is
estimated at 530,000 people. Total costs of the component amounted to over US$6 million, compared with
the initial base cost estimate of US$5 million.
Priorities for sub-projects were decided at the Commune level, in principle on the basis of proposals
submitted by villages, through village meetings. (In practice, the amount of village consultation varied
greatly between Conmnunes.) The Communes submitted lists of priority projects for evaluation by ADF
according to technical, environmental, economic and financial criteria. The ceiling value for each
sub-project was originally set at $40,000 and later increased to $50,000. Benefiting communities were
- 6 -



commnitted to contribute 5% of the cost of the works as well as a fund to cover the first two years of
maintenance. Sub-projects were to be simple and easily implementable, and to maximize labor-intensive
techniques. Once a sub-project was selected, ADF's role was to organize, finance, and help the Comnmune
carry out the work either through direct hire of labor (for 21 of the sub-projects implemented in 1995) or
though contractors selected through competitive bidding.
Selected sub-projects included repair to roads and bridges, irrigation, water supply, schools and health
centers. Road repair proved to be a particularly high priority, accounting for 55% of projects, 66% of
costs, and a total of 305 km. This was followed by water supply and irrigation.
Rural infrastructure rehabilitation sub-projects
Roads  Water  Irrigation School/ health   Bridge/    Others    Total
cent.    Footbridge
1995                   27      15        18          2           2          1         65
1996                   30      11        2           3           2          1         49
1997                   3        1        3           0           0          3         10
1998                   27      4         1           1            1         0         34
1999                   9        3        1           1           0          1         15
Total                  96      34        25          7            5         6         173
% of no.              55.5    19.6      14.5        4.0          2.9        3.5       100
% of costs            66.0    15.5      9.6          2.8         3.5        2.6       100
Av. Cost/ sub-project
('000 Lek)            5560    3707      3116        3171        5636       3575      4680
The ADF has been most effective in technical supervision of construction and in control of costs. The
quality of most of the construction work is judged to be high, and unit costs low, by current standards in
the country. Average project costs increased in real termns during the period due to increases in unit costs
and also in the scale/scope of sub-projects. Implementation was less effective with respect to strict
application of procedures/criteria for sub-project selection and for conmmunity participation. Payment of the
5% community contribution has not been made for about one third of sub-projects. Maintenance funds
were set up for almost 90% of projects, but in many cases have not been operated effectively.
Impact
The direct employment impact of the construction work was estimated at a total of about 520,000 man
days (compared with the SAR estimate of 550,000). At the beginning of the RDP, most construction work
used direct hire of labor by the Communes. With rapid increase in the number of private contractors in the
country, it soon became possible to use competitively selected contractors. As a result, although labor
intensity tended to decline somewhat during the project period, particularly for residents of the beneficiary
village concerned, construction standards and schedules improved and the project was able to have an
important impact in building the capacity and skills of private contractors-- in competitive bidding as well
as construction technology.
Assessments carried out in 1998 and 2000 indicate quite a high level of overall satisfaction of beneficiaries
concerning selection of projects and quality of work, and cite increases in trade, economic activity,
agricultural production, and access to employment, as the most significant benefits. Other reported benefits
included improvements in the quality of rural life and restoring a sense of village community. The
- 7-



assessments also make clear, however, that the extent to which villagers were consulted, or even informed,
about project priorities and design was small and varied greatly between Communes. When village
meetings were held, women tended to be absent. In the minority of villages where the sub-project was seen
not to have substantial benefits, this was related either to lack of local consultation on exactly what was
needed, and/or to the failure of arrangements for operation and maintenance. Although there is some
evidence of improvement during the last year of the project, the main issue is therefore for the sustainability
of benefits (see 6.1).
This component had a significant capacity building impact at the Commune level, as well as in building the
capacity of private contractors (see 4.5).
B.    Small Scale Credit
Outpults
For the microcredit program, the RDP built on the methodology that had already been tested and proven
extraordinarily successful in the pilot phase. This was based on ownership and management at the village
level. Village Credit Funds (VCFs)--revolving fund accounts--were managed by elected Village Credit
Commnittees (VCCs), of which an ADF representative was an ex-officio member. The VCCs themselves
decided on credit allocations, defined collateral, and controlled the repayment of loans. ADF credit officers
provided intensive support to VCCs, and information and advice to clients.
Expenditure under this component amounted to about half the US$4.3 million base cost estimated at project
appraisal. Nevertheless, rapid growth was sustained in the volume of loans disbursed: during the course of
the project, the annual volume tripled to reach almost US$2 million in 1999. The network of Village Credit
Funds (VCFs) was extended to 116 more villages, just short of the SAR target of 135. The number of loans
disbursed reached the target of 12,000, despite an increase of in the average size of loans. The maximum
individual loan amount was increased in response to demand-from US$500 (or exceptionally up to
US$ 1,000) at the start of the project, to US$2,000 (exceptionally up to US$5,000) at project completion.
The maximum loan duration was three years and many loans were repaid early. Most remarkably, this
steady expansion survived the pressures and then crisis of the pyramid schemes in Albania in 1996-97, and
with no significant impact on near-perfect loan repayment performance.
Growth of the credit program under the RDP was concentrated primarily in Districts where ADF (later
RFF) was already active and Village Credit Funds (VCFs) had already been established, the strategy being
to intensify the network within these Districts. At project completion, the RDP was supporting the
operation of 175 VCFs in seven of the country's 36 Districts. With the exception of Puke, these were the
same Districts as had been reached under the preceding Rural Poverty Alleviation Program. The RFF was
concurrently supporting a further 60 VCFs under an IFAD funded project in two north-east Districts. Data
in the following table are for the program as a whole. Portfolio quality was sustained at a high level, with
repayments rates exceeding 99 percent throughout the project (while the major state-owned banks had
collection rates below 50 percent).
-8 -



Performance of Rural Microcredit Program
End 1996      End 1997      End 1998      End 1999
No. of Village Credit Funds                   170           192           221           238
Balance of Loans Outstanding (US$ equiv.    $2.3 m.       S2.1 m.       S3.0 m.       $3.8 m.
No. of active loans                          6,859         8,634         9,255         8,269
Average loan outstanding (US$ equiv.)        $338          $234          $322          $463
Effective interest rate                      10%        10% or 20%    18% or 24%    18% or 24%
Inflation (during period)                    17%           42%           0.9%          -0.6%
Real effective interest rate                 -6%       -23% or -15%   17% or23%    18% or24%
Delinquency rate*                             0%           0.3%          0.5%           0.3
Portfolio at risk**                            0           0.4%          1.0%          0.5%
*Delinquency rate: amount of payments more than 30 days overdue / total outstanding balance of loan portfolio
** Portfolio at risk: total outstanding balance of loans with payments more than 1 day overdue / total outstanding
balance of loan portfolio
Interest rates paid by borrowers under the RDP were positive in real terms, except for a period in 1996 and
1997. Under the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project, from 1992, loans were indexed to the US dollar
plus 6 percent. Villagers were comfortable with the dollar index because they considered it transparent and
indisputable. However, unexpected stability of the lek during 1993 and 1994 resulted in farmers effectively
paying very low interest (substantially negative if measured in constant lek). In early 1995, the RDP made
a successful transition to a lek-based interest rate, set initially at 10 percent, with expectations that it would
be periodically adjusted. Rising inflation in 1996, as the macroeconomic situation deteriorated, resulted in
negative interest rates. Given the participatory nature of the VCF system, and because there was no
automatic interest rate adjustment mechanism, ADF could not easily raise interest rates by taking unilateral
action. ADF was preparing an awareness raising campaign for all VCC members, in order to reach
agreement on a market based rate and adjustment mechanisms, when civil crisis erupted in Albania early
1997. In the circumstances, pursuing the campaign to raise interest rates could have jeopardized the
repayment discipline that had been established, and ADF opted to focus on loan repayment during the
crisis. At the end of 1997, after an information campaign with the VCFs, the interest rate was increased to
18 percent in mountain villages and 24 percent in hilly and plains villages, to allow for the lower rates of
return for economic activities in mountain districts and deteriorating rural termns of trade during times of
inflation. This dual interest rate policy is being eliminated under the new Microcredit Project, which will
apply market interest rates for all loans.
The exact rate of subsidy implied in the VCF program until now is not clear because management and
administration was not separately accounted until mid 1999, when the ADF's credit department was
transformed into the RFF. In addition, much of the time of credit officers was devoted to building village
level capacity - for social and civic development as well as credit management. More attention during
project implementation to financial analysis -- including estimating financial rates of return to typical
investments in remote and in more accessible regions -- could have helped to clarify the potential for
sustainability and expansion of the VCF network.
Design of the credit component was based on the perception that, so long as the VCF program was
dependent on subsidies and managed by a govenmment foundation with soft budget constraints, it was
vulnerable to increasing inefficiencies and political influence. A stated objective of the project was to
prepare for the creation of a network of sustainable private financial institutions--village Savings and
- 9-



Credit Associations (SCAs). Against considerable difficulties, this has been achieved. The necessary legal
and institutional framework was established under the RDP, including separation of the credit department
from the ADF and its establishment as quasi-government foundation, the Rural Finance Fund (RFF). Under
the Microcredit Project now being implemented, the RFF will support the development of a network of
SCAs. It will continue to support existing VCFs, and their conversion to SCAs, but will not create any new
VCFs.
Impact
The impact of this component was to intensify operations in Districts where the credit program was already
established, responding to the strong demand from existing clients for expansion of credit services. The
emphasis was on strengthening VCFs in these Districts, in preparation for their transition to SCAs, rather
than extending the geographical outreach of the VCF network.
According to beneficiary assessments caried out in 1998 and 2000, the program has had an important
impact on improving nutrition (in the poorest regions), developing farm and off-farm activity, and
promoting entrepreneurship and economic responsibility in the villages served. More than 80% of
respondents believed that the VCF had had a positive impact on the village - on social solidarity and civic
development as well as economic activity. Simple procedures and fast disbursement were cited as
significant advantages of VCF loans. Perceptions of VCCs and their role were highly positive. Most
respondents did not want to change loan procedures, but a substantial minority wanted access to larger
loans. This interest in larger loans matches the progressive diversification of investments since the program
began; the share used for livestock investments has decreased from 97% in 1993 to just over 50% now.
Demand has grown for larger loans to finance profit-making activities such as vegetable greenhouses,
trade, handicrafts, and agricultural mechanics. Both assessments, in 1998 and 2000, also found a strong
demand for more information and advice on rural investment opportunities.
The credit allocation criteria used by VCCs appear to be fair and approved within the community.
Applicants are liable to be disqualified if they are wealthy (considered not to be in need) or have a bad
character reputation; otherwise, they are judged on the merit of the proposal. Although women borrowers
have accounted for less than 10 percent of VCF clients to date, it is known that they play an important role
in household decisions on borrowing. Formal participation of women has been promoted by encouraging
joint husband-wife contracts, as well as credits to female heads of households, women whose husbands are
absent, and women who are setting up their own productive enterprises, independent of their husbands.
VCCs have reportedly found women to be more reliable and conscientious borrowers and therefore tend to
favor them, especially for repeat loans.
It could be argued that the original objectives of the RDP might have been better served by less rapid
progress towards financial sustainability of the village credit institutions and a stronger focus on expanding
the network of VCFs to reach more of the rural population. It is possible that if a clear mechanism for
interest rate adjustment had been established from the beginning of the RDP, the negative real interest rates
effective in 1996 and 1997 could have been avoided and the subsidy dependence reduced. Financial
transparency could have been achieved by establishing the credit department as a separate cost center and
accounting explicitly for subsidy dependence and for any grant element in loans in remote mountainous
villages. In so far as continuing subsidies would have been required, there is currently substantial donor
interest in supporting effective programs for poverty alleviation in Albania. It might also have been more in
keeping with the flexible, learning-by-doing, bottom-up approach of the program to pilot the new SCAs on
a small scale before connitting to this transition. (The recent beneficiary assessment found considerable
-10-



skepticism among villagers on the proposed new savings function, and little understanding of how SCAs
would work.) On the other hand, especially if the original VCF methodology can be replicated successfully
by other agencies in Albania-as is planned under an IFAD-funded project for the poorest districts in the
northeast of the country-then the RDP may indeed prove to have made a greater overall impact by
applying the capacity and reputation of the RFF to a new function with potentially great long term benefits
for rural development in Albania.
This component had high institutional development impact, in building capacity at the village level, and in
establishing the legal basis for VCFs, SCAs and for the Rural Finance Fund itself (see 4.5).
C.    Promotion of rural activities
This component, intended to support the microcredit programn, was not implemented as planned, partly
because the majority of investments until recently were very small ones for purchase of livestock, and
partly because of constraints in ADF capacity. Studies and active promotion of altemative rural investment
opportunities might possibly have encouraged more rapid diversification. The beneficiary assessments
revealed strong demand by villagers for relevant informnation and advice, suggesting that these activities
will need high priority under the follow on project.
The project did finance veterinary support in the amount of about US$400,000 (through Italian and Swiss
co-financing). The project supplied prophylactic services through 77 veterinarians in 129 villages. It was
carried out in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture's veterinary service and with Village Credit
Committees, with the purpose of minimizing the risk of livestock investmnents. Other benefits included
increasing awareness of farmning families on the need for prophylactic treatmnent of animals, increases in
fertility and milk production, and building the country's professional veterinary capacity. These activities
will be continued through an NGO newly created for the purpose.
D.    Studies and local government training
Studies included two beneficiary assessments, carried out in 1998 and 2000, to obtain feedback fromn the
villages on the impact of activities under the infrastructure and credit components. No formal training or
study tours for local govermment staff was provided, mainly because of the frequent turnover of staff.
However, substantial informal training was provided through ADF officers under the rural works
component in the process of construction design, procurement and supervision and it is felt that the
institutional development impact at the Commune level was not significantly dimninished by the lack of
formnal training.
E..   Implementation support
The project financed the project related equipment and operational costs of the ADF, as well as training
and technical assistance for ADF finance and administration. This support enabled ADF to expand
activities successfully, including implementation of large scale projects for other donors, despite a period of
extremely difficult civil and political conditions. In this context, the few reservations are relatively minor~
(i) Accounting System - ADF used a financial accounting software "BILAN" designed by Bamy
Informatique Logiciels from Switzerland. This software and the financial consultant who assisted in
the implementation was paid from a Swiss Grant in 1993. Due to lack of local support for this
software, ADF became dependent on foreign consultants who continued to assist in the implementation
of the software including year-end closing. Because of the lack of accounting software capacity in the
- 11 -



country at the time of preparation, the Bank team considered this to be the best option; however, this
capacity increased greatly during the course of project implementation.
(ii) Management Information System - Due to the limitation of the automated accounting software,
the details of transactions at the sub-project level were maintained in Excel spreadsheets. Usage of
Excel spreadsheets should have been limited and macro driven if possible to reduce the time and error
in compiling reports. Installation of a fully automated management information system, integrating the
financial accounting with subprojects monitoring, was planned under the project but as never
implemented. This deficiency would have been less detrimental if separate cost centers had been
established for the main project components, permitting clear accounting of the level of subsidy in the
microcredit component.
(iii) Financial Manual - ADF did not have a financial manual detailing accounting and financial
policies, (e.g., write-off policy), accounting procedures (e.g., year-end closing procedures) nor a users'
manual for the accounting software. These would have reduced the dependence on foreign consultants
and allowed for staff rotation to build capacity in financial management.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It was not possible to identify a priori the sub-projects to be financed either through the rural works or
through microcredit investments. Therefore no attempt was made to estimate overall economic and
financial rates of return to the project. The project was designed to finance simple and cost-effective
rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, with priorities identified by village communities. Unit costs were
monitored throughout the project and have compared favorably with those for similar works carried out by
other agencies. Under the rural credit program, repayment rates of 100% were achieved, and interest rates
paid by borrowers were positive in real terms with the exception of a period during the 1996-1997 crisis.
Virtually no other source of credit has existed for the rural population since 1996.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
See above
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is high. The microcredit program has been highly
effective in strengthening village level institutions and social cohesion (recognized in the CAS Progress
Report). Working through Village Credit Committees and Village Development Committees, it has built
capacity for civic and economic development, as well as credit management, in 175 villages. An
appropriate legal status has been established for sustainable, private, village Savings and Credit
Associations, as well as the Village Credit Funds. The rural works component has had most impact at the
local government (Commune) level. Inexperienced Commune officials have gained knowledge and skills in
design, procurement, supervision and maintenance of small rural works, by working closely with ADF staff
to implement sub-projects. The ADF has also helped to build the capacity of the private contracting
industry. Capacity of the central implementing agency has been enhanced under the project, firmly
establishing the ADF as a specialized agency with unique capacity and reputation in the country for
meeting local infrastructure needs. Transformation of ADF's credit department to form the Rural Finance
Fund has created a new financial institution with experienced staff and unique capacity in the delivery of
microcredit.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of gover-nment or implemnenting agency:
1997 Civil Crisis. The project implementation period was marked by enormous turmoil in Albania. 1996,
- 12 -



the first year of project implementation, saw macroeconomic backsliding, increased political instability, and
the mushrooming of fraudulent pyramid schemes. The collapse of these schemes in late 1996 and early
1997 triggered massive civil unrest: arms were looted from military barracks, government buildings were
destroyed, banks were robbed and burned, and the government-which defacto lost control of most of the
country-was forced to resign. All mission travel to Albania was banned for two months, although close
contact was maintained with ADF staff, who focused on protecting ADF property and maintaining the
integrity of the microcredit program. During the worst of the crisis, microlending activities (disbursement
and repayment of loans), infrastructure works, and Bank disbursements to the project, were necessarily
suspended. Ten new sub-projects were started in 1997, compared with 49 in 1996. The credit program
suffered a temporary increase in loan delinquency but proved extraordinarily resilient in the circumstances.
Security gradually improved, and a new govemnment, elected in June 1997, quickly focused on restoring
macroeconomic stability and putting the country back on track for economic growth. Overall the impact of
the 1997 crisis was a significant but temporary setback in implementation of the rural works and
microcredit components, with a sharp decline in project disbursements, and a major strain on the capacity
of the ADF which was forced to concentrate resources on protecting its core activities at the expense of
conmplementary capacity building initiatives.
1999 Kosovo Crisis. Although this crisis had an inevitable impact in straining Albanian institutions, the
massive influx of refugees was managed admirably by the Albanian population and the government, while
the overall economic impact on Albania was negligible owing to generous extemal assistance and Albania's
prudent policies. There was a small impact on the RDP in its last year of implementation, and on the new
follow-on projects. Because of ADF's recognized capacity to respond quickly in meeting rural
infrastructure needs, a special Supplemental Credit to the new Community Works Project was quickly
negotiated and approved in response to the refugee crisis. The chaotic situation in the northeastern districts
made all work in this region temporarily more difficult. Microcredit activities under the RDP were briefly
frozen and repayment performance suffered slightly in these districts.
Donor coordination. Because of its demonstrated effectiveness, the ADF has attracted many donors.
Most donors have provided funding to be compatible with the IDA-financed projects-using the same
Manual of Procedures. However, the European Union selected the ADF to implement a large (over 20
million ECU) Local Communities Development Program (LDCP) using a separate set of infrastructure
works procedures for mainly medium and large infrastructure subprojects in rural and urban areas.
Together, the LCDP, the IDA-financed projects, and the IFAD-financed Northeastem Districts Rural
Development Project have enabled the ADF to carry out an extensive works program throughout Albania.
At the same time, the large scale of EU funding and the pressure for fast disbursement have strained the
ADF's institutional capacity, with some impact on the progress of the rural works component. Despite
efforts by ADF staff and consultants to harmonize-to the extent possible-IDA and EUJ procedures, the
slightly differing philosophies and procedures may be confusing for contractors, local govemment partners,
andl ADF's infrastructure engineers. The pressure on ADF to expand physical output targets under
sornewhat varying criteria and procedures has probably been an important factor in the relative weakness
of efforts to secure community participation in and ownership of RDP sub-projects, jeopardizing the
sustainability of sub-project benefits.
5.2 Factors generally suibject to government control:
Sub-project selection. Some political interference in targeting of rural works sub-projects contributed to
ADF's lack of strict adherence to established selection criteria and appraisal procedures (see 7.5). The
imlpact on outcomes appears to have been small, however, in the context of the project as a whole.
5.3 Factors generally suibject to implementing agency control:
- 13 -



Response to external crises. The flexibility, initiative, determination and extremely hard work of ADF
staff were instrumental in enabling the project to survive the political and civil crisis of 1996/1997, and to
respond to the Kosovo crisis, with no long-term detriment to either of the main RDP components.
Information management. The ADF focused strongly on results on the ground, but gave insufficient
priority to managing information. Continuing delays in implementing an adequate management information
system, as provided in the project, led to inefficient use of staff time in managing information and weakened
the quality of monitoring, evaluation and reporting. Inconsistent recording of sub-project information, and
the lack of linkage between data on sub-projects and the financial accounting system, has made reporting
more time-consuming than it needs to be and limited the scope for effective monitoring or analysis of costs
and benefits.
Beneficiary participation. Failure to enforce consistently the requirements for beneficiary participation
stipulated in the Manual of Procedures had some negative impact on selection and sustainability of
sub-projects. It is evident from the beneficiary assessments, nevertheless, that project selection closely
matched villagers' priorities in the great majority of cases.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Costs. The project costs estimated at appraisal did not correspond to pre-identified investments, but rather
to programs that could be expanded or contracted according to demand and implementing capacity as well
as available finance. Actual total costs of the project are very close to those estimated at appraisal. The
breakdown of costs between components and between disbursement categories was substantially revised
during implementation, in response to the more rapid rate of expenditure under the rural works component.
A shortfall of about US$2 million on the microcredit component was reallocated to rural works and to ADF
operating expenses.
Funding. Due to changes in the exchange rate between the SDR and the US dollar, IDA Credit funds
available to the project amounted to US$5.86 million, instead of the projected US$6 million. The impact of
the project was greatly increased by co-financing, totaling US$5.2 million. This included: a grant of
US$2.3 million from the Italian government, a large part of which was allocated to infrastructure works
and credit in the poorest villages; a grant of US$1.8 million from the Swiss government, focused on rural
works and credit in the Puke District; a French grant of US$0.3 million for rural works and TA; and an EU
grant of US$0.8 million for rural works and TA. The agreed government contribution of US$1.2 million
was not fully implemented and was not allocated to the originally agreed components (rnicrocredit and the
promotion of rural activities). Government funding to the RDP amounted to a total of US$0.5 million
equivalent for seven rural works subprojects. Community contributions were fulfilled in 60 percent of
completed works projects and amounted to US$0. 15 million equivalent.
Central Bank transfers. The government of Albania requires all Special Accounts to be established in the
Bank of Albania, which transfers project funds to a project-specific commercial bank account. However,
throughout the project implementation period, there were substantial delays (of ten days or more) in
transferring funds from the Bank of Albania to the ADF's account in the National Conimercial Bank,
contributing to ADF's cash flow difficulties and slowing project implementation.
Taxes. Since the introduction of VAT in Albania in 1997, VAT has been paid under the project and has
not been fully reimbursed by the government. The total amount owed to the RDP is estimated at more than
US$400,000; an exact figure cannot be given because ADF's accounting system does not distinguish
between donors for 1997. The recent practice is unacceptable on several counts: unpermitted use of Bank
and trust funding to pay taxes in the first place; inadequacy of ADF's accounting and financial
- 14 -



management system; and distortion of the funding allocation between disbursement categories when any
governnent reimbursement to the ADF account for the RDP is allocated exclusively to fund additional
rural works sub-projects.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainabilitl rating:
The emphasis placed on sustainability is a very strong feature of the project, and it is likely that the major
achievements generated by the project will be maintained. The distinction needs to be made, however,
between (i) sustainability of the whole program, through securing the necessary institutional framework and
capacity for future operation and expansion of both works and microcredit delivery and (ii) sustainability
of the benefits of rural works sub-projects, through their continuing operation and effective maintenance. In
the former case, sustainability is highly likely. The legal basis of the ADF as an autonomous government
foundation, its unique capacity in Albania, and its reputation with the central and local government,
beneficiary commnunities and donors, are all firmly established. For the microcredit program, high priority
was given throughout project implementation to achieving separate status of the microcredit program
through establishing the Rural Finance Fund (RFF) as a legal entity, and moving rapidly to financial
sustainability of village-level credit institutions. Extremely effective relationships have been established
between staff of the RFF and the village credit conmmittees, with ownership clearly at the village-level.
Ownership and sustainability of the village level institutions for credit management was demonstrated
beyond any plausible expectations when they survived through the growth and collapse of the pyramid
schemes with relatively little impact on their outstanding repayment performance. The decision to convert
Village Credit Funds (VCFs) to private Savings and Credit Associations (SCAs) was taken in order to
promote long termn sustainability of the network by enabling the village-level institutions to become
independent of subsidies and political support. However, there may also be an element of risk in the
transition: since SCAs have not been piloted, it is not yet known how the transformation will affect factors
that have been essential in the success of VCFs--including village solidarity, village-level decisions on loan
allocations, and effectiveness of the supportive, relatively informal relations between RFF staff and Village
Credit Comnnittees.
A significant shortcoming concerns the sustainability of sub-projects financed under the RDP. It is
estimated from project supervision reports that as many as half are already experiencing difficulties in
operations and maintenance, because of technical, institutional and/or financial constraints. Progressive
deterioration has been noted in the condition of most of the roads that were repaired under the project.
Maintenance of water supply and irrigation works has presented particular problems because of lack of the
necessary social organization. Where operation is the responsibility of the line ministry - as for schools and
health centers -- coordination has been lacking. Overall conditions in the country make this a very difficult
challenge. One of the aspects of rejection of the commnunist system in Albania has been a general reluctance
of the population to support collective projects or take active interest in the condition of public or
communal property. At the same time, the new systems of private land ownership and of decentralization to
local govemment are not yet fully established, so that ownership of property and responsibility for
maintenance are legally uncertain in some cases. For these reasons, combined with low incomes and severe
government budget constraints, the standard of infrastructure maintenance is very poor throughout the
country. Some steps have been taken in the follow-on Community Works Project to address these issues
more effectively in new sub-projects, and potentially also for projects completed under the RDP.
Agreement between all concerned parties is proposed at the stage of sub-project appraisal, establishing
detailed plans for O&M, and ADF will carry out regular inspection and monitoring after project
completion, potentially including projects implemented under the RDP. Measures to strengthen community
participation, through social inspectors hired by ADF, are also expected to improve the sustainability of
- 15-



infrastructure works.
6.2 Transition arrange/71ent to regular operations.
Under the follow-up Microcredit and Community Works Projects, the necessary arrangements are in place
to ensure the future operation of the rural works and micro-credit programs. The ICR Stakeholder
Workshop revealed strong support from all levels of government, from donors, and from village
representatives for continuation of both the programs.
The Rural Finance Fund has been established with separate legal status as a quasi-government foundation.
The Microcredit Project focuses on achieving financial sustainability of village level credit institutions,
making them ultimately independent of subsidy and the RFF. The separation of the microcredit programs
from the ADF is enabling the ADF to focus on its mandate of local infrastructure improvement.
Under the Community Works Project new procedures are being implemented to increase the level of
stakeholder participation. Installation of a computerized management information system will increase the
ADF's capacity to manage a growing number of sub-projects and to ensure adequate monitoring and
evaluation. Beneficiary assessments will be undertaken annually to obtain stakeholder feedback and assess
project impact.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Sat. ifactory
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's intensive and high quality supervision effort, continuing the same hands-on approach as for the
Poverty Alleviation Project, is rated as satisfactory.
Supervision would have benefited from stronger input for financial management, higher priority to
enforcement of agreed procedures for sub-project selection and beneficiary participation, and to early
implementation of a good management information system. The ADF's weaknesses in these areas were
identified as lessons from the pilot Rural Poverty Alleviation Project-and were accounted for in project
design-but not enough priority was given in supervision to ensure they were addressed. This is explained in
large part by the pressures on Bank and ADF staff in (i) dealing with the impact of political and civil crisis
in 1996-97, and (ii) the drive to accomplish the institutional changes needed for financial transparency and
efficiency of the microcredit program.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall satisfactory Bank performance owed a great deal to continuity of staff from the pre-pilot phase
through almost the completion of the RDP, to the quality and personal motivation of these staff, their
proactive and non-bureaucratic approach, and strong relationships with Albanian counterparts. Now that
the implementing agencies are experienced and fornalized, less intensive supervision may be appropriate.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The direct role of the govermment during implementation was limited to counterpart funding, which was not
fully implemented, and general support to the ADF. Although some level of political influence was
- 16 -



arguably inevitable, political interference from government and members of parliament (e.g., ADF staff
recruitment without using competitive selection procedures, use of cars during elections, selection of
infrastructure investments) has had a negative impact on ADF's institutional efficiency and performance in
meeting project objectives. Perfomnance is rated as marginally satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Although the ADF suffered some management and administrative weaknesses (see 4.2 E), it has
nevertheless proved itself to be one of the most successful project institutions in the country. ADF eamed
the respect of IDA, cofinanciers and government for its effectiveness in delivering microcredit and
implementing infrastructure projects. From stakeholder assessments, it is clear that it has also established a
strong reputation with local government (in the case of rural works) and at the village level (through the
microcredit program). Overall, the ADF's performance in implementing the RDP, under some very difficult
circumstances, was satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borroiver performance:
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The success of the Rural Development Project in extremely difficult circumstances can be attributed
primarily to:
- The quality and personal commitment of staff, on both the Bank and Albanian sides, and the continuity of
many of these staff from the early piloting stage;
- The strong drive for results, with hands-on involvement of the Bank team, and an intensive supervision
effort;
- Flexibility in project design, ensuring that adjustments in implementation could be made quickly in
response to new constraints or opportunities;
- The emphasis placed on creating the necessary institutional framework for sustainable operation.
In the context of the project's achievements, the shortcomings identified in this report are minor, and reflect
the difficulties inherent in scaling up and institutionalizing an innovative and participatory pilot program:
- The drive for rapid institutional change may tend to divert attention from other opportunities and
objectives, unless key performance indicators have been defined and are monitored closely. More attention
could have been given in the RDP to potential synergies within the existing program and to addressing
explicitly the trade-offs in objectives:
(i) The trade-offs involved in the shift of objectives under the credit component-from rural poverty
reduction (channeling resources to poor rural households) to rapid institutional development
(developing sustainable financial institutions in the economically most viable villages)-could have been
addressed more explicitly at project preparation and during implementation.
(ii) While emphasis was put on the process of separating the credit function from the ADF, potential
synergies between the rural works and microcredit components may not have been fully exploited.
Implementation of rural works, e.g., roads or irrigation, opens up new opportunities for private
- 17 -



investment. At the same time, it was found that community participation in and support for
maintenance of rural works sub-projects was greater in those villages which also had a Village Credit
Fund. ADF had exceptionally effective relationships at the villag leel, through the credit department,
and at the Commune level, through the rural works staff. With more coordination within ADF, a
greater impact might have been achieved in the relationship between villages and Communes.
- Adherence to consistent procedures, with efficient and transparent systems and practices for managing
information and accounting, are not obvious priorities for an innovative project at the pilot stage. However,
if these are not introduced before working habits become entrenched, this is liable to constrain the potential
of the implementing agency to expand activities and to reduce dependence on individuals and external
advice. Higher priority should have been given at the start of the RDP, to strict adherence to the
Operational Manual, and to strengthening record-keeping, financial and .r.magernrent intbrmafion systems,
and intemal auditing.
Participatory credit delivery:
- Albania's rural microcredit program provides a model for credit delivery in conditions of extreme
institutional weakness and civil instability. It has demonstrated that such programs can sustain
extraordinary repayment perforrnance, even in very poor and remote villages, if ownership is rooted at the
village level:
(i) borrowers have been involved in the design of the delivery mechanism,
(ii) delivery is piloted and adjusted to adapt to local conditions and traditions,
(iii) loan decisions are made at the village level, and
(iv) peer pressure substitutes for traditional collateral.
- A further important factor in the success of this program was the high quality and motivation of credit
officers and other staff of the credit department. Competitive recruitment criteria emphasized personal
motivation and initiative as well as professional background. The program could not have survived the
collapse of the pyramid schemes and the civil crisis in Albania without sheer deternination and extremely
hard work on the part of ADF staff.
- Focus is needed from the outset on financial transparency. If poverty alleviation or other objectives
justify a grant element in the credit, this subsidy should be made explicit and efficiency incentives
protected. Experience of the RDP demonstrated that these elements are much more difficult to- introduce
when a program is already established and, in other respects, very successful. Many difficulties could have
been avoided if (i) a transparent mechanism had been introduced from the beginning for interest rate
adjustment, and (ii) the credit department had been established from the start as a separate cost center with
its own financial statements.
Demand-driven rural works:
Two particular factors are identified in the success of the project in establishing the ADF as a uniquely
effective agency for meeting local infrastructure needs:
- Competitive selection of staff, based on personal commitment and willingness to work hard and take on
- 18 -



responsibility, as well as professional qualifications--backed by long term intemational TA, in particular a
consultant engineer who worked with ADF from the beginning and made a substantial impact on technical
skills and work organization.
- Highly effective relations between ADF and local government, based on keeping ownership and hands-on
management of sub-projects with the Comrnunes, and building local govemment capacity for procurement
and supervision of infrastructure works.
In an otherwise strong rural works program, ADF has been weak in promoting (i) community participation
and (ii) operation and maintenance of completed sub-projects. These problems were highlighted from the
experience of the pilot phase and addressed in design of the RDP, but with not much impact. The
constraints included the tendency for political influence in sub-project selection, and the natural focus of
engineers on the technical construction process rather than community participation. In addition, the natural
partners of ADF for works sub-projects have been Communes rather than villages. Further measures have
been taken under the follow-up project, including recruitment by ADF of social inspectors to work with
village communities, and improved adherence to targeting methodology and Operational Guidelines. More
concerted efforts may be needed, including focus on relevant monitoring indicators (of the participatory
process in project selection and design, and agreement of all concerned on detailed O&M plans) to balance
physical output indicators.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This ICR was prepared with substantial assistance of the ADF and RFF, which have provided data and
worked closely with IDA's ICR mission. Representatives of the borrower and the implementing agency
participated in the ICR stakeholder workshop to discuss lessons leamed from the project. They expressed
the view that the RDP had been a successful project with significant lessons, both positive and negative, for
the future. The Borrower's Report on the project (May 2000), prepared by the ADF/RFF, provides detailed
information on the progress of the project and identifies implications of the experience for future
operations. The draft of this ICR was sent to the borrower for comments on May 5th, 2000. No comments
were received.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Representatives of the Swiss and Italian financiers have expressed overall satisfaction both with the
achievements of the project and with donor coordination under the project.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.
10. Additional Information
A. Rural Works Component
[Source: ADF Database]
- 19 -



Table 10.A.1
Number and Types of Rural Works Subprojects Started Each Year
Type of Subproject           1995      1996       1997      1998     1999     Total no.
Road                                     27         30         3        27       9            96
Water supply                             15         11         1         4        3           34
Irrigation                               18          2         3         1        1           25
Health Center/School                      2          3         -         I        1            7
Bridge/Footbridge                         2          2         -         1        -            5
Others                                    I          1         3         -        1            6
Total                     65         49        10        34       15          173
Table 10.A.2
Unit costs and Average Contract Value by Type of Subproject ('000 Lek)
Type            Unit       95          96         97         98           99        Average
Road                     [km         1,073.1     1,228.2   2,138.2     2,426.2     3,032.4         1,750
Water supply             /km          882.9       627.3     750.0      2,752.0     2,223.0         1,033
Irrigation               /km          462.5       769.7   1,546.0      1,199.0      12,788          660
H.Center/School          /m2            4.2         5.9        --         18.0        27.0           7.6
Bridge/Footbridge        /ml           67.0       122.4         --       132.6          --          80.C
Aver. subproject value   '000 lek    3,044.0     3,688.0   3,116.0       7,624     9,377.0         4,68(
- 20 -



Table 10.A.3
Engagement by Type of Subprofect (I= rek)
Year       Road    W.supply    Irrigation  Heal.Center/School  Bridge/Footbri.  Others   Total
1995       90,140      37,964      45,328               2,432          18,185    3,790  197,839
1996       115,447      35,754      5,388              11,877           7,343    4,883  180,692
1997        12,829       1,500     13,297                  --              -    3,535   31,161
1998      218,361      33,025       4,S58                 623           7,652       --  259,219
1999       97,035       17,787      9,335               7,263               0    9,239  140,659
Total value    533,812    126,030     77,906              22,195          28,180   21,447  809,570
Share of total    66.0%     15.5%       9.6%                2.8%            3.5%     2.6%   100.0%
Total No.        96          34          25                   7               5        6      173
Share of total    55.5%     19.6%       14.5%               4.0%            2.9%     3.5%   100.0%
Aver. cost/
subproject     5,560       3,707       3,116               3,171           5,636    3,575    4,680
('000 lek)          .
- 21 -



Table 1O.A.4
Engagement by District and Beneficiary Population
District      Rural Population      Subproject      Number of Projects Cost per Beneficiary
(est. 1995)      Beneficiaries
Berat                          91,660              3,500                  1                660
Bulgize                        37,830              3,930                  3               1,400
Delvine                        20,140              11,300                 2               1,680
Diber                          94,200              3,030                  2               4,220
Durres                         59,840             33,800                 14               1,516
Elbedsan                      118,850             48,360                 14               1,719
Fier                          131,830             54,000                 14               1,100
Gjirokaster                    40,430              2,600                  1               3,673
Gramsh                         33,960              6,900                  6               3,002
Kolonje                        16,000              5,700                  2               2,355
Korce                         102,090             23,000                 13               1,816
Kruje                          35,750               1,250                 1               2,004
Kukes                          62,560              4,100                  I               1,112
Kurbin                          18,080             2,000                  1               2,385
Lezhe                          53,120              14,300                10               1,290
Librazhd                       82,460              8,600                  4               1,852
Lusbnje                        89,240              4,000                  1               1,215
Malesi e Madhe                 48,650               1,700                 2               1,986
Mallakaster                    34,870              4,600                  3               5,296
Mat                            60,400              14,200                 7               2,426
Mirdite                        39,290              6,500                  5               2,238
Permet                         30,000                300                  1              23,283
Pogradee                       49,510              11,000                 3                580
Puke                           39,770             45,400                 17               1,940
Sarande                        25,750                300                   1             27,000
Shkoder                       120,430             43,600                 11               1,143
Skrapar                        21,930              4,000                  2               1,724
Tepelene                       35,820             30,000                 11               1,576
Tirane                         137,050            21,100                  8               2,837
Vlore                          86,670              18,900                12               4,728
-22 -



B. Small Scale Credit
[Source: Rural Finance Fund. Figures include IFAD-fimded project, as well as RDIMI
Table 1O.B.l: General Indicators
_________________________                      1997                   1998               1999
I     Number of districts                                  11                     11                 11
2     Number of village                                   192                    221               238
3      Number of staff                                     28                     34                 37
4      Number of credit officers                           19                     22                 21
5     Number of clients (from the                      11,202                 13,623            15,619
beginning)
6     Number of credits (from the                      13,092                 16,557            20,034
beginning)
7     Number of clients who has paid                    4,458                  7,287            11,761
off
8      Number of active clients (6-7)                   8,634                  9,273             8,269
9      Outstanding (lek)                          313,060,611            416,861,657       505,099,486
Table 1O.B.2: Indicators of Portfolio Quality
________________________                         1997                   1998             1999
10   Repayment rate                                      99.70                   99.54            99.82
11   Average of the unpaid loans (lek)                  36,259                  44,954           61,084
12   Reserve rate*                                        0.23                    0.54             0.32
13   Portfolio in arrears (installment)*                  0.26                    0.49             0.25
14   Portfolio in risk*                                    0.35                   1.02             0.49
15   Loan Loss Rate*                                       0.00                   0.07             0.19
16   Average of disbursed loans (lek)                   44,389                  51,620           59,701
12: = loan reserve (calculated for loans with payments past due)/portfoblo outstanding
13: = payments past due/portfolio outstanding
14: = outstanding balance with payments past due/portfolio outstanding
15: = write-offs (cumulative)/portfolio outstanding
- 23 -



Table 10.B.3: Indicators of Efficiency
1997                  1998             1999
17   Administrative Efficiency*                       10.2                   11.1            12.1
18   Operative Efficiency*                            10,.4                  12.5            15,9
19   Staff distribution /Total distribution           57.3                   45.3            31,5
20   Active Clients / No. of staff                    308.                    272            223
21   Active Clients / No. of loan officers             454                    421            394
22   Active Clients /Branch                            863                    927            827
23   Unpaid Loans /No. of loan officers         16,476 ,416             18,948,257     24,052 ,356
(lek)
24   No. of Villages/No. of loan officers              10.1                   10.0            11.2
25   No. of loan officers/No. of Staff                  51                     59              57
* 17: = administrative expenses/average net portfolio
18: financial income/adjusted operating expenses
- 24 -



Table 10.B.4: Profitability Indicators
1997                      1998         1999
26   Retum on Assets (adjusted)*                 -60.89               -12.06          -7.93
27   Return on Capital (adjusted) *              -61.16               -12.12          -7.96
28   Portfolio Productivity*                       7.40                 7.79          14.42
29l Operating self- sufficiency*                  71.02                62.29          90.89
30   Financial self- sufficiency*                  8.69                32.65          56.74
*26: = adjusted operating profit/average total assets (adjusted for inflation but not for subsidized costs of
funds)
27: = adjusted operating net profit (financial incomes less adjusted operating expenses)/average equity
28: = financial income/average net portfolio outstanding
29: = financial income/operating expenses
:30: = financial income (credit income plus income from investment)/adjusted operating expenses
(inflation adjusted)
Table 1O.B.5: Number and Value of Loans Disbursed by Economic Activity
(cumulative to December 1999)
1_    ==______                Number                             Value ('000 Lek)      *
Handicrafts                              552                2.67           42,815           3.58
Livestock                             13,471               67.24          717,135          59.96
Agriculture                            2,432               12.14           179268          14.99
Micro-enterrises                         263                1.31           21,449            1.79
Draft animals                          1,106                5.52           47,773           3.99
Agric. mechanics                         667                3.33            54,768          4.58
Services                                  83                0.41            5,030           0.42
Trade                                   1,460               7.29           127,803          10.69
Total                                 20,034              100.00         1,196,043         100.00
Table 10.B.6: Geographical Distribution of VCF Network Expansion under RDP
(number of villages)
District         1995            1996             1997            1998            1999
Tirane                        6               10               5             _                 6
Kruje                         2               5                0               0               0
Vlore                         7                8               2               2               3
Elbasan                       6               10               4               4               2
Gramsh                        7               12               0               0               0
Puke                          3                5               4               4               1
Total                        31               50              15              15              12
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                     Projected in last PSR                  ActuallLatest Estimate
Outcome indicators were not defined at
project appraisal. The development objective
was reformulated in August 1998, to be more
condse and measurable: To develop the
rural market economy and increase rural
incomes, as defined by:
improved small infrastructure,         The quality and expected number of rural    173 sub-projects carried out for
works sub-projects is satisfactory; however,  infrastructure repair, primarily of mads, water
the number of sub-projects is not likely to    supply, and irrigation systems, although
meet initial expectations due to       some of these improvements are not fully
implementation delays during the crisis of   maintained.
1997.
improved access to credit,             Satisfactory                            Access to credit through VCFs was
extended to 116 more villages. Clients
express strong satisfaction with services.
an increase in small farm and off-farm  Satisfactory                           Beneficiary assessments indicate substantial
enterprises                                                                    impact.
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                     Projected in last PSR                  ActuallLatest Estimate
Rehabilitate about 190 social and economic                                     173 sub-projects implemented
infrastructure subprojects
Create 135 new village credit funds. 9,000                                     116 new VCFs established. 12,000 loans
micro loans for intensification of agriculture                                 disbursed
and non-farm activities
Assistance to 600 rural microenterprises                                       Sub-component for assistance to
microenterprises was not implemented.
Establishment of and support to 75 viglage                                      Veterinary prophylactic services provided to
animal health associations                                                     livestock owners in 129 villages
End of project
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million     US$ million
Rural works                                             5.00             7.00            140
Small-scale credit                                      4.30             2.60            60
Promotion of rural activities                           0.40             0.50            125
Studies/local government training                       0,20             0.30            150
Implementation support                                  1.30             1.70            131
Total Baseline Cost                                     11.20           12.10
Physical Contingencies                                 0.40
Price Contingencies                                    0.40
Total Project Costs                12.00           12.10
Total Financing Required                12.00            12.10
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB        Mthod2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other'
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          5.09         0.00          5.09
(0.00)       (0.00)        (2.30)       (0.00)        (2.30)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00          0.30         0.00          0.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.20)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          1.09         0.00          1.09
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.38)        (0.00)        (0.38)
4. Credit                    0.00          0.00          4.25         0.00          4.25
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.62)        (0.00)        (2.62)
5. Recurrent costs           0.00          0.00          1.28         0.00          1.28
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.50)        (0.00)        (0.50)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.0o)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      0.00          0.00        1i2.u1        0.00          12.01
(0.00)       (0.00)       (6.00)        (0.00)        (6.00)
- 27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB             NCB           Other          N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00            0.00           6.80           0.00            6.80
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.30)         (0.00)          (2.30)
2. Goods                         0.00            0.00           0.50           0.00            0.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.30)         (0.00)          (0.30)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           0.80           0.00            0.80
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.40)         (0.00)          (0.40)
4. Credit                        0.00            0.00           2.40           0.00            2.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.60)         (0.00)          (1.60)
5. Recurrent costs               0.00            0.00           1.60           0.00            1.60
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.20)         (0.00)          (1.20)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.0(0.00.00)                 (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00           12.10          0.00            12.10
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.80)         (0.00)          (5.80)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Proj'ct Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Appraisal Estimate           ActualLatest Estimate
IDA       Govt      CoF.       IDA       Govt.      CoF.    IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Rural works               2.32       0.00      2.88       2.40       0.80      3.30    103.4   0.0   114.6
Small scale credit        2.73       0.70      1.14       1.70       0.00      0.80     62.3    0.0    70.2
Promotion of rural        0.11       0.10      0.21       0.20       0.00      0.40    181.8   0.0   190.5
activities
Studies/local government  0.09       0.00      0.17       0.10       0.00      0.30    111.1   0.0   176.5
training
Implementation support    0.74       0.40      0.17       1.30       0.00      0.40    175.7   0.0   235.3
-28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
It was not possible to identify a priori the sub-projects to be financed either through the rural works or
through microcredit investments. Therefore no attempt was made to estimate overall economic and
financial rates of return to the project. The rural works component of the project was designed to finance
simple and cost-effective rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, with priorities identified by village
communities. Unit costs were monitored throughout the project and have compared favorably with those for
similar works carried out by other agencies. Under the rural credit program, repayment rates of 100% were
achieved, and interest rates paid by borrowers were positive in real terms with the exception of a period
during the 1996-1997 crisis. Virtually no other source of credit has existed for the rural population since
1996.
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Sept. 16- Oct. 1, 1993        4   Task Manager, Operations
Officer, Microenterprise
Consultant, Rural Credit
Consultant
Nov. 25 - Dec. 1, 1993        1   Task Manager
Jan 24 - Feb. 11, 1994        6   Task Manager  peratiew
Officer, Monitoring and
Evaluation Consultant,
Sociologist, Finance Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 13 - 30, 1994            6   Task Manager, Operations
Officer, Engineering
Consultant, Cooperative
Banking Consultant,
Monitoring and Evaluation
Consultant
Nov. 17, 1994                 4   Task Manager, Operations,            HS                 HS
(Negotiations)                     FMS, Procurement
Supervision
July 14 - 26, 1995             5  Task Manager, Operations              S                 S
Officer, Microenterprise
Consultant, Rural Credit
Consultant, Finance
Consultant
Oct. 13 - 26, 1995             4  Task Manager, Operations              S                 S
Officer, Credit Mutuel, Rural
Credit Consultant
Jan. 7 - 20, 1996              3  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer, Rural Credit Consultant
April 9 - 25, 1996             4  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer, Rural Credit Consultant,
Veterinary Consultant
July 15 - 30, 1996             3  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer, Rural Credit Consultant
Oct. 21 - Nov. 2, 1996         4  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer, Rural Credit Consultant,
Engineering Consultant
Feb. 16 - March 1, 1997        3  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer, Rural Credit Consultant
May 18 - 31, 1997              2  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer
Sept. 18 - Oct. 6, 1997        3  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer, Engineer
- 30 -



Nov. 18 - 27, 1997            3  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer, Engineer
Feb. 17 - March 6, 1998       4  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer, Social Scientist,
Engineer
April 20 - 26, 1998           3  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer, Credit Mutuel
July 13 -28, 1998             3  Task Manager, Operations              S                  S
Officer, Credit Mutuel
Nov. 9 - 21, 1998              4  Task Manager, Operations              S                 S
Officer, Procurement Consultant,
Civil and Environmental
Engineer
Feb. I - 12, 1999              6  Task Manager, Operations              S                 S
Officer, Procurement Officer,
Civil and Environmental
Engineer, Economist, Engineer
Feb. 7 - 23, 1999              3  Task Manager, Private Sector          S                 S
Development Spec., Operations
Officer
Aug. 16 - 26, 1999             2  Engineer and Consultant               S                 S
ICR
April 20 - May 3, 2000        4   Task Manager, Operations              S                 S
Officer, Social Scientist,
Procurement Specialist,
Consultant Engineer,
Consultant Microcredit
Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
l__________ _ _____     __ | L_No. Staff weeks                   US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                9.8                         27.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                    24.3                         75.1
Supervision                              50.6                        144.9
ICR                                      11.5                         60.0
Total                                    96.2                        307.4
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                            OH  O SU OM  O N  * NA
ZSector Policies                           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
S Physical                                 O H  * SU O  M  O N  O NA
S Financial                                O H  * SU O  M  O N  O NA
Z Instittitional Development               O H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
M Environmental                             O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                  0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
ZG Gender                           OH OSUOM O N O NA
0 Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development               0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                  0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
ZJ Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
Szupervision                                       OHS@*S  OU  OHU
2 Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
E Preparation                                         OHS *S  O  U  O HU
RI Government implementation performance              O HS * S  0  U  0  HU
Z Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
ZK Overall                                            OHS OS 0 u O HU
- 33-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Borrower's Report on the Albania Rural Development Project, ADF, May 2000
Beneficiary Survey Results on Infrastructure and Credit Components of the RDP, Institute for
Contemporary Studies & CoPLAN, May 2000
Evaluation of the Infrastructure Component, Albania Rural Development Project, Paul Dean, March 2000
Evaluation of the Rural Finance Fund Component, Albania Rural Development Project, Michel Voyer,
March 2000
Beneficiary Assessment, Albania Rural Development Project, Infrastructure Works Component, April
1998
Beneficiary Assessment, Albania Rural Development Project, Rural Credit Program, Co-Plan Center for
Habitat Development, July 1998
Back-to-Office Report of QAG Quality at Entry Mission, ECA Agriculture, September 1996
- 34 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Beneficiary Assessment at Completion of
Albania Rural Development Project
Summary of Findings
1    Introduction. As part of the ICR exercise, two beneficiary assessments were carried out
in early 2000, in order to assess the degree to which the Rural Development Project (RDP)
achieved beneficiary satisfaction and had a positive and sustainable impact on rural livelihoods.
Both the rural infrastructure component and the micro-finance component were evaluated with
similar methodologies including semi-structured questionnaires, in-depth interviews and focus
groups with the project beneficiaries. From each of these two RDP components, two new
stand-alone projects with separate management structures are now under implementation. For the
infrastructure component, the survey included some villages with sub-projects being implemented
under the new Community Works Project (CWP). This summary highlights the main findings and
recommendations of both the assessment reports, and compares these findings where relevant
with those of the earlier beneficiary assessment carried out under the project in 1998.
2.    Overall project rating. In general, the assessments found a high level of beneficiary
satisfaction for both the infrastructure and the micro-finance programs, especially taking into
account i) the novel approach of the RDP in a period of extreme social and political instability; ii)
the degree of isolation and seclusion of many of the targeted rural communities and their harsh
socio-economic conditions and iii) the low level of autonomy of local governments. However,
suggestions for change and improvement are highlighted throughout the reports and summarized
below for each of the RDP components.
3.    Methodology and sampling. The study combined qualitative and quantitative methods,
including standard questionnaires, in-depth interviews, and focus group discussions. In addition,
sub-project reports were prepared by each interviewer on their findings, conclusions and
comments while providing qualitative information on the social and economic conditions of each
village. Interviews with officials of the Albanian Development Fund (ADF) and the Rural Finance
Fund (RFF) were also carried out in order to collect the necessary information and data on each
sub-project.
4.    Sample design responded to the need for fair representation of (i) geographic coverage of
the project; (ii) typology of implemented sub-projects and (iii) evolution during the project life
period -- from the beginning of the RDP in 1995, through establishment of separate management
structures for the two follow-on projects in 1999.
- 35 -



Infrastructure Component
5.    Methodology and sampling. The report is based on the results of: (i) 625 standard
questionnaires, 462 for the RDP and 153 from CWP, with random selection of respondents; (ii)
128 in-depth interviews with the best informed 4-5 people per village, of which 96 for RDP and
32 for CWP; (iii) 16 focus group discussions, of which 12 for RDP and 4 for CWP. The standard
questionnaire was designed to obtain feedback from the project beneficiaries and allow
comparison of the two projects (RDP and CWP) on: (i) socio-economic impact of the projects,
(ii) beneficiary satisfaction, (iii) level of beneficiary participation, (iv) community contribution, (v)
project awareness and information and (vi) sustainability of the projects. Focus groups gathered
approximately 8-10 people to clarify and discuss some of the main issues emerging from the
questionnaires, put together people with different opinions and evaluate group interactions in the
community. In addition, sub-project reports were prepared by each interviewer on their findings,
conclusions and comments while providing qualitative information regarding social-economic
conditions of each village. Interviews with ADF officials were also carried out in order to collect
the necessary information and data on each sub-project.
6.    The study was carried out in four large areas composed of eight districts: (i) Puke-Mat;
(ii) Elbasan-Librazhd-Korce; (iii) Fier-Vlore; (iv) Tirane. The overall level of poverty decreases
from the first category to the last one while the opportunities for development and access to
markets increase. Within each large area, 32 villages were selected with different poverty status,
development opportunities, access to markets and urban areas, tradition, and village size.
7.    Twenty-four subprojects were selected from the RDP, covering about 10% of the value of
the total ADF portfolio and consisting of 16 road repair projects, three water supply projects,
three irrigation works, one school and one health center (proportionate to the overall share of
each type of subproject under the RDP). Eight subprojects belonged to the CWP, consisting of
five for road repair and three for water supply. For the standard interviews, respondents were
selected randomly. For the in depth interviews and focus group discussion, selection was based on
targeting according to sub-categories of respondents/participants.
8.    Main findings and conclusions. During 1998, a beneficiary assessment was carried out
for the first time on the infrastructure component of RDP. Among the major implications of the
findings of the previous beneficiary assessment for the infrastructure works component were the
need to (i) promote greater public involvement in project selection and maintenance and (ii)
increase trust in local government. The same concerns prevailed in the April 2000 assessment,
although there were some signs of improvements under the CWP in promoting beneficiary
participation at the sub-project identification stage.
9.    Socio-Economic Impact. The high level of beneficiary satisfaction for the infrastructure
component derives mainly from its positive socio-economic impact at the village level and its
impact on meeting priority needs, especially of women and children. The specific benefits cited
most often by respondents included: (i) better access to different social services, especially
schools; (ii) better communication and cohesion between family, local community members, and
- 36 -



local government; (iii) better communication with surrounding areas; (iv) improved access for
farners to local and surrounding markets for purchase of inputs and sale of products directly to
consumers; (v) increased number of traders coming to villages to purchase agricultural outputs;
(vi) increased level of agricultural production; (vii) facilitated access to employment opportunities;
and (viii) direct employment creation in subproject implementation (even if short term). From the
local government perspective, major improvements were (a) increased decision-making capacity
and (b) responsibility of the community in project design, priority selection and improved
interaction with the village community.
10.   The strong positive effects are explained by the extremely poor condition of existing
infrastructure throughout Albania. Severe and widespread deterioration in roads, water supply,
health centers and school buildings has meant that these services often function in unsafe
conditions, if they function at all. Rehabilitation therefore leads quickly to major improvements in
living conditions, child health and safety and communication. People feel safer when children have
a smaller distance to cover to go to school and when the nearest functioning medical center is
closer. And a relatively small investment in road rehabilitation can immediately irnprove access to
services and markets in neighboring villages. For example, a woman in the village of Plet in Puka
said that villagers requested the rehabilitation of the school as it was in dangerous condition and
many parents were afraid to send their children to school for fear of exposure to hazards. Now
that works at the school are finished everybody is satisfied, especially parents who are now
counting on a safe place for their children to go to school. Another example is that of a group of
farmers of Celez in Puka, expressing their satisfaction for the construction of the road. Before the
repair of this road, there was no bus in the village and communication and transport of farm
products with neighboring villages were extremely difficult. Now the commune has four buses
working daily and the transport of goods is much easier.
The road subprojects in Qenam-Zall Herr. Selite e Vogel and Farke e Vogel (district of Tirana) have improved
the commutnication between surrounding villages and people's access to markets. The road subproject in Qelez
and the school subproject in Plet (Ptuka) have largely improved people's access to social services with particiular
regard to the access of children to education. The irrigation system subproject in Frakull (Fier) has had large
positive effects in women's daily life through the improvement of cropping practices and by freeing up time for
housework In the same way, the road subproject in Ruzhdie (Fier) has directly improved access to social
services for about 2/3 of the village population and indirectly to the remaining 1/3 of the population. The road
suibprojects in Selite e Vogel and Farke e Vogel have similarly improved villagers' access to different social
services in their own village or in surrounding ones.
11.    Community participation. Community participation, especially during sub-project
selection, was closely related to beneficiary satisfaction with sub-projects. It appears sub-project
selection under the RDP was often approached in a top-down way. Decisions between alternative
sub-projects were made by the Communes and approved by ADF, often with little or no
participation of beneficiary comnmunities in project selection or design. There were cases,
however, where the decision was taken after discussion with the whole community. Overall, the
level of satisfaction of the RDP beneficiaries on project selection has not been very high. When
subprojects had been selected without consultation and agreement on priorities at the community
level, and where villagers were not well informed on the procedures, beneficiaries were less likely
to be satisfied with or interested in the project and were more likely to complain of corruption on
the part of the local government/Commune. There was only one village (4% of the sample),
- 37 -



however, where the respondents said that the project was not at all a priority and it would have
been better if the money would have been spent for something else: this was the case of the bridge
subproject in Flet-Puka, where the priority for the villagers was the school.
Many villagers reported that they did not have an opportunity to express their views on priorities at the time of
project selection and did not consider the selected project to be the highest priority for the village. A villager in
Selita - Vogel considers that the road was not a highest priorityfor the area, becauise the greatest need was the
establishment of a sewerage and drainage system. He was also concerned that the new road presented a danger
because suiddenly cars go fast and threaten children's lives. In another example, two teachers in Celez (Putka)
claimed that the chief of the village took the decision to submit a proposalfor road repair in a meeting with the
local government representatives. They contend that, even if it was a good choice, this was the only project
discuissed and people still think that the rehabilitation of the health center, supplied with all necessary
equipment, was the most tirgent priorityfor the village.
12.   Maintenance and sustainability issues.   Maintenance still remains an unsolved issue,
although measures under the new project (CWP), supported by social inspectors -- enforcing the
condition of up-front 10% community contribution for sub-projects and creating Users'
Committees at the design stage - appear to be having some impact on community awareness of
operations and maintenance issues. An important factor in sustainability is the value placed by
beneficiaries on the project concerned. Where communities had been fully involved and inforrmed
at each stage of the subproject, the sense of ownership and of trust between all the actors
(ADF-Commune-community) was greater and the prospects for sustainability better.
13.   Information and public awareness. Comparing beneficiaries' responses on information
and public awareness under the RDP and the new CWP, some progress is apparent. The activities
of both regional engineers and social inspectors under the new CWP seem to be responding to the
expressed need of villagers under the RDP for more information on all project activities and for
regular meetings with people from the villages to explain in general terms how construction works
will evolve, what will be the output of the project, what kind of material will be used, what type
of maintenance should be expected.
14.    Relationship with government. ADF has a good reputation and working relations with
representatives of local governments, municipalities and Communes, resulting in a good
opportunity for capacity building at the local level. The impact of the RDP in improving the
efficiency of the local government (administration of communes and municipalities
administration), inducing ownership of initiatives as well as a certain degree of responsibility
towards village problems and the need to mobilize local resources for project sustainability should
be considered as a very important result. This is particularly significant considering that local
governments and local public administrations are relatively new entities, slowly moving towards a
decentralization process and with very little experience or financial means.
15.   However, the coordination between ADF and the line ministries could be strengthened to
better monitor that agreements signed for the provision of equipment and staff and maintenance of
the rehabilitated infrastructure are respected. Beneficiaries' suggestion is that ADF carefully
supervise and follow-up on the conditions set and agreed upon before starting works for such
investments as rehabilitation of schools, nurseries and health centers to ensure the good and
efficient functioning of those structures.
- 38 -



16.   Cooperation with local organization. ADF has established no relationship with local
organizations. Partnership and consistent cooperation with local organizations and CBOs (NGOs,
consumer groups if existent, or other non-governmental organizations or groups) would help the
agency carry out all activities (information, training, etc.) at the grassroots level even where social
inspectors cannot be regularly present in all sub-project sites. The Users Committees could play
an important role as subproject information centers where villagers can get more detailed
information and address their concerns. The practice of putting posters and pamphlets as in
Qender (Fier) should be encouraged in other villages.
Micro-credit Component
17.   Findings and conclusions. As for the infrastructure component of the RDP, an earlier
beneficiary assessment had already been carried out for the microcredit component in 1998. In
general, the major findings and conclusions at that time seem still to be valid and shared by the
most recent assessment conducted in April 2000.
18.   Methodology and sampling. Both qualitative and quantitative methodologies were
adopted, including a semi-structured questionnaire on a purposive sample of borrowers (151
questionnaires), in-depth interviews (36) and focus groups (12) with villagers, village chiefs,
credit officers and local authorities. Criteria such as the geographic distribution in the country,
proximity to urban sites, and gender, helped design the sample. The assessment aimed to gather
beneficiaries' opinions on (i) targeting of project beneficiaries, including women and youngsters;
(ii) the output of the program and its contribution to improving people's living conditions; (iii)
outreach activities, support of designated local staff for information on the program and assistance
in the application process and repayment procedures; (iv) opinions on the planned new Savings
and Credit Associations.
19.   The total number of interviews for each district was agreed upon with the implementing
agency (the Rural Finance Fund, or RFF) and was calculated according to data on the profiles of
micro-credit program borrowers. The sample was selected according to the following criteria: (i)
geographic (mountainous and remote areas versus peri-urban); (ii) economic (areas with
productive and economic potentials versus areas where the local economy is based on
subsistence); and (iii) micro-credit program life-span (areas where the program was established in
the first years of the project and areas where the micro-credit program was recently introduced).
The study was done in four districts (Tirane, Elbasan, Gramsh and Vlore) and in 12 villages with
Village Credit Funds (VCFs), of which 4 in Tirana, 3 in Elbasan, 2 in Gramsh and 3 in Vlore.
20.   Main Findings. A high level of satisfaction was found on the main characteristics of the
credit program: procedures, fast disbursement, loan distribution criteria among borrowers and the
constitution of Village Credit Committees (VCCs). However, 75% of respondents felt that the
maximum size of individual loans was too low. The positive impacts most frequently cited were:
(i) improved living conditions, (ii) increased food production, (iii) higher food consumption, (iv)
better nutrition (especially for self-consumption in mountainous and remote areas), (v) increased
- 39-



opportunities for agro-processing, (vi) better access to markets (60% of the respondents),
especially in Elbasan and Gramsh, (vii) increased employment opportunities (67% of
respondents), mainly in the agricultural domain and (viii) increase in incorme (4$Wo of
respondents), positively linked to the increase of agricultural and livestock product sales.
21.   The expansion of loans granted throughout the village has generally helped beneficiaries to
continue their existing activities and/or to open new ones, increasing economic activity and
creating new employment opportunities. These positive effects have been most clearly felt in
villages with relatively easy access to markets (Tirana and Vlore) and a good agricultural
conditions. In these cases, there is also a higher use of agricultural inputs, and a higher degree of
commercialization. In the village of Vajze in Vlora district, a borrower de6ared that access to
credit had concretely improved his family's living conditions and prospects. He was able to
borrow twice and this enabled him and his wife to work in the shop they own and afford to send
their child to school. Another beneficiary reported that he had used the credit to buy equipment
and furniture for a bar resulting in an increase in income and family employment as the wife is
working also in the bar as a barkeeper. With profits from the bar, he was able to repay the credit
and to invest in bar furnishings. On the other hand, in the most remote villages with subsistence
livelihoods, such as Grebllesh and Petrele in Tirana and Llakatund in Vlore, the positive effects of
the project were still mainly derived from purchase of livestock.
22.   Gender relations. Credit is generally given for the entire household since the assumption
is that men and women work the land together or are involved in other common family activities.
A beneficiary reported that she had the impression that RFF had the wish to support women
whereas the VCC had fixed a criterion whereby credits are to be given only to the heads of the
family. Another woman in Berzite (Tirana) said that she was very much imz need of a credit, but
did not dare to apply knowing that her request would not have been taken into consideration and
that nobody would supported her.
23.   Emigration trends. The effects of the project in helping reduce the emigration trends of
these regions appear still to be limited. The average credit amount is usually considered too low
(average $500 to a maximum of $2,000 equivalent), especially by young people in search of
employment. Loans do not seem to represent a major incentive for investments and employment
creation for youngsters and for those not having a business already set up.
24.   Poverty reduction. More than 80% of respondents agreed that the credit program had
had a positive effect in reducing poverty and promoting the development of villages, especially in
those villages where micro-credit interventions were associated with other rural development
interventions, such as rehabilitation of roads, irrigation systems, markets, agricultural extension,
etc.
25.   Village Credit Committees. Relationships between the borrowers and the Village Credit
Committees (VCC), are largely governed by a good level of trust, sharing of information, even if
informal, and generally there is a consensus among borrowers on the opinion that VCC members
are properly representing the village. In fact, for each neighborhood of the village there is a
representative in the VCC and one of the VCC members is always a guarantor for the credit
-40 -



borrower. VCCs are elected through a fairly open and transparent process where there is high
participation of the village. Conflicts and discussions between potential borrowers and VCC
members are rare but still do exist, especially when there is no consensus between the VCC or
between the VCC and the credit officers on given applications.
26.  In the 1998 beneficiary assessment, ADF clients represented on average 84% of the total
population in sample villages with VCFs, showing the large extent of the credit program. The
number of applications rejected by VCCs was on average only two or three per village, according
to the information given by the ADF credit officers or members of the VCC. The 2000
assessment indicated a similar pattern, including the widespread opinion of respondents that
VCCs have a good sense of priority for the neediest people in selecting borrowers requests,
resulting in a widely felt sense of transparency of the credit program.
27.   Promotion of rural activities. As in the previous beneficiary assessment, a large number
of respondents (75%) said they would like to have some assistance and support in setting up new
businesses and new ideas and advice on innovative uses of their loans. To take just one example, a
borrower from Shirgjan in Elbasan was suggesting that RFF should give advice and give larger
credits for non-livestock investments: since the area of Elbasan has very good climate for wine
production, he felt this should be encouraged further through technical support on how to better
crop grapes and larger credit to expand existing production. The component Promotion of Rural
Activities was never implemented under the RDP, on the grounds that this was not a priority
when most of the investments were in livestock. Nevertheless, project management should
consider that borrowers have been requesting advice and ideas for some years now.
28.   Saving and Credit Associations (SCAs). From the interviews, fewer than 20% of the
sample had knowledge about the SCAs. VCC members had been formally informed through
workshops organized by RFF officers but the interviews suggested that understanding was limited
on the meaning and implications of this transition in the credit program. Nevertheless, even if
people were not well informed on how the SCAs would be created, their precise functions and
their management, most of the interviewed VCC members had high expectations that the new
associations would be able to increase the loan amount and the number of credits in the villages.
29.   The opinions of villagers on the role of the savings associations and their willingness to
participate in savings programs varied, partly because of weak understanding of the proposed
function. Most of the respondents felt that (i) savings were minimal for each household and thus
people's concern was to keep at home some ready-to-use cash in case of emergency; (ii) there was
still not enough positive experience in joint and associative activities and people were not used to
using banks or setting aside their savings, especially after the experience with the pyramid
schemes; (iii) little information had been reported by the RFF personnel to promote the new
SCAs; (iv) the Village Development Associations were not able to prepare the ground for the
establishment of the SCAs and help promote a strong collective feeling and incentive among
villagers. On the other hand, some respondents felt that SCAs could succeed because they would
be owned by the village, and because of the high level of confidence in the RFF. No less than 82%
of respondents expressed a high opinion of the RFF.
-41 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Report on the Stakeholder Workshop
Introduction
In the framework of the World Bank, Rural Development Project (RDP) a Stakeholder Workshop took
place in Durres (29th of March 2000). This report on the workshop is prepared by the workshop
facilitators and contains some more conmuents and remarks from the moderators / facilitators point of view
(facilitators: Elda CERIBASH[, Sokol CELO). During the preparation work the facilitators were assisted
by Ms. Elena GALLIANO (World Bank), Ms. Silvia MAURI (World Bank), Mr. Ibrahim HACKAJ
(World Bank) and Mr. Sef SLOOTWEG (SNV - Fier).
ObNectives of the workshop
01. To discuss the activities of the infrastructure and microcredit projects.
02. To estimate the Beneficiaries Satisfaction and Project Impact
03. To have especially the representatives of the beneficiaries making their comments
04. To use participatory methodologies, which will continue to play an important role for the project in the
future
Workshop Proeramme
1. Session: History of ADF, History of RFF
2. Session: Working groups: Infrastructure and Micro-Credit Projects
3. Session. Continuation in Working Groups / Presentation of the findings
4. Session: Presentation of the Beneficiary Assessment preliminary data; Lessons learned ADF / RFF;
Plenary discussion
Methodologv
In accordance with the workshop organizers it was decided to use the SWOT - Analysis (Strengths,
Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats) as a dialectic approach, which best suites for environments with high
dynamic and relatively homogenous groups (in our case only two different points of view). The workshop
was characterized by:
participants comning from two different backgrounds (ADF / RFF staff and representatives of the local
govemment and villagers) but being given equal opportunity to express their opinions
the presence of a moderator facilitating the work of each working group
permnanent visualization of the discussion process
The basic tools used were brainstorming and clustering of participants' statements. Both working groups
-42 -



(Infrastructure and Rural Credit) proceeded in the same way. The method was applied to each of the three
beforehand selected topics (Identification Phase, Implementation Phase and Follow up), which first were
introduced by the facilitators. The participants wrote their statements on coloured cards, which were then
discussed and form the most important part of this report.
Findines of the workshop
While the participants' contributions in their original form can be found in the Annex 1, we would like here
to mention some of the most important findings and to add some more conmments.
Group I: Infrastructure
01. The participation of the community in the phase of identification has to be considered as one of the
strongest points of the project
02. The selection and evaluation approach of the subprojects has proven an effective method for developing
a demand - driven project. The subjective and political influence on the selection approach has decreased
03. The project has contributed to creating employment and improving the living conditions
04. The project has improved the quality of the design and supervision system
05. Infrastructure rehabilitation had an important social impact on the community both for the new
evolutionary change of the mentality and for the establishment of the concept of the own contribution
06. The major part of the formulated weaknesses concerning the phase of Identification regards the
so-called RDP - Period. In this respect they have to be considered as not of current interest (those cards
have been marked RDP)
07. The analysis indicated, that the poverty level of the villages has not been considered as far as the
contribution of the community is concemed
08. Difficulties have been encountered regarding the community contribution
09. The disbursement approach didn't always respected the time limits
10. The supervision has been one-sided: quality supervised, time schedule not
11. Maintenance is not secure. This seems to be one of the most crucial problems. A better control and
maintenance mechanism has to be elaborated. On the other hand it remains the duty of the community to
care for the maintenance.
12. Regarding the risks it has to be stressed, that the identification approach could lead to social problems.
Delays in disbursing the funds to contractors have also to be considered as a risk
Micro Credit
01. The identification approach on all three levels (identification of the village, election of the village credit
committee (VCC) and selection of the borrowers) has been successfully so far
02. The project has had a positive impact on the income generation
03. The project demonstrated strong repayment rate (99,9 %).
04. The project performance has created the preconditions for a sustainable development in the future
05. Security remains a serious problem and will be a risk even for the future
06. There is a tendency of the borrowers (especially in remote rural areas) to leave the village and to
change the destination of the loan
07. The participants saw the following opportunities for the future: selection of villages able to absorb
funds; activities with the participation of several borrowers; consideration was given to combining the
activities of both components (Infrastructure and Microcredit Project)
08. The high interest rate has to be considered as a risk for the future
09. There can be political pressure over the existing structures due to political changes
-43 -



Remarks on the group dynamic
01. The working groups worked effectively due to a good selection and the fact that they were properly
briefed and knew what and why they were supposed to do.
02. There were no disturbances, so it was no need for the moderators to intervene
03. Both working groups had ADF respectively RFF staff and representatives of Local Government and
Communities. It has to be stressed that as long as the participants wrote their statements on cards, they had
equal opportunity to express their ideas. But during the discussion (especially for the Infrastructure Works
Group) the commnunity part was somehow dorninated by the rest of the group.
04. Observing the group feeling, no conflicts, even latent ones, could be verified.
Workshoi, I
Identification Phase                        Implementation Phase                             Follow up
-Proposals come from village, communes,    -Increased employment                           -The presence of ADF still necessary.
municipality or citizens.                 -Increased quality of works and supervision.   -Better living conditions of the
-Intervention in all communes.             -Positive impact                                  communities.
-The concept of co-financing from the side of   -Quick disbursement of the contractors.    -Improvement of the professional skills of
local community.                          -High level in design and supervision.           the ADF staff.
S        -Decrease of political interference        -Wage increase for the designer and supervisor.
Strength       -Priorities are set with the community.    -Timely elaboration and assignment of the contracts.
-Decrease of personal interference.
-The farmers welcome the projects.
I -Expansion of project over whole country
-Delays in the announcement of the community  -Difficulties in getting the contribution of the local   -Lack of a supervision mechanism for the
identification results (RDP)                government and community.                       maintenance.
W        -The poverty level has not been taken into  -Beneficiaries' contribution is too high       -Sustainability not ensured.
Weaknesses       consideration.                            -Quality of supervision not good enough.       -Coordination between the investor and
-No total inclusion (RDP).                 -Disbursement from the donor is slow             local govemment
-Some times contradictions emerge between the  -Simplification of the project design due to financial
farmers.                                    limit
-Regional preferences.                     -Contractors are not always paid on due time.
-Lack of complete infonnation.             -One - sided supervision (only for the quality, not for
-Not with required depth (RDP).              the time limits)
-Not carried out with support of social experts
(RDP).
-Lack of experience at all levels (RDP).
-Self-development, growing response.
0        -Request fro more than one intervention or  -Increase cooperation between ADF and local    -Who contributes, get subprojects
Opportun.        sub-project: willingness from commune to give   authorities in each project phase           financing.
further support.                         -Increase the project ceiling                   -Good performers, get new subprojects.
-Improve quality                               -Fund raising for the future.
-Maintenance made by communes.
T
Threatens       -Stagnant approach for identification.     -Delays in implementation due to bad weather    -Maintenance of the finished work.
-Negative sensitivity of some farmers.                                                     -Low participation communities.
-Timely disbursement of the contractors
-44 -



Workshop 2
Selection of the village                   Implementation Phase                              Follow up
-Economic capacity (able to pay back the  - Suitable election of the credit committees  - Correct behaviour towards both sides
credit),                              - Repayment rate of 100%                       - Concept of credit consolidated.
-Good selection of the villages according to   - Social peer pressure over the village.  - Credit sustainability, repayment rate 99.9%o
real needs                            - Achievement rate of the objective over 135%  - Sustainability of the activity.
-Good working tradition of the village.  -The impact of the credit to avoid the pyramid  - Strengthening of VCC role in managing the
-Village with suitable conditions for viable   effects.                                  credit.
plans.                                - Establishment of new market economy concepts.    - Qualification of VCC.
S        -Cohesive environment in the village without - Compact VCC                             - Good information of local community.
strength      social problems.                      - Good choice of the clients (borrowers)       - Increase of the incomes of the village.
-Inhabitants don't leave the villages   - Establishment of the credit concept.         - The gained experience helps for the future.
-Participation of the local cormmunity in the  - Increase of farmers' incomes
selection approach                    - New employment opportunities
-8ased on the traditional structures    - Services offered in the villages
- Tendency of the inhabitants of the
mountains villages to leave.          - Tendency to change the destination.          - Credit doesn't cover the whole Republic
- Villages without market and transport roads. - Lack of the security for money transfer.  - Legal framework incomplete
W      - Villages with not autochthon inhabitants    - Delays in money transfers due to weak bank  - Weak economic situation.
Weakness                                            service.                                      - Farmers leave the village
- Farmers leave the village
- Strengthening the concept of working in-groups.
-Villages with possibilities to develop  - Better control over the repayment procedure.  - Qualification for bigger activities (technology,
infrastructure.                          - Better qualification of the implementing staff.    management).
- Villages able to absorb more funds.    - Disseminating the experience at-good clients.  - Transformation of the associations into CSA
0      - Inclusion of village, which posses information - Join activities with participation of several  - Preconditions for further investments.
Opportun  about credit.                             farmers.                                     - Better wages for the VCC
- Villages with marketing possibilities.                                              - Improvement of the financial balance
- Possibilities to expand the infrastructure
- More priority and competence to the VCC.
- Co-ordination of the credit with the
_ ____________________________________   ______________________________________________  infrastructure.
-Tendency of the farmers to leave.       - Inflation                                  - Incapability to make use of all credits.
- Selection of the village               - Failure of the activity.                   - Security problems.
T      - High interest rate of the credit.      - Wrong identification of the activity.        High interest rates.
Threatens - Election of the associations heads.     - Weakening of the VCC activity              - Clients leave the village
- Pyramidal systems.                         - Existence of -doubtful- credit projects
- No support from the customs tax-system for the
inland products.
- Political changes cause pressure on the existing
teams.
- Interest rate changes
- Lack of security for the money transfer.
Workshop Participants
Artur Galanxhi                        Ministry of Agriculture
Shqipe Rrumbullaku                    Ministry of Economic Coordination
Veronika Rusi                         Ministry of Economic Coordination
Simona Rigoni                         Italian Cooperation
Luijeta Shtino                        Italian Cooperation
Irma Beci                             ADF
Robert Lukaj                          ADF
Altim Doda                            ADF
Vlash Kacimari                        ADF
Bujar Xhafa                           ADF
Merita Toramani                       ADF
Ylli Dervishi                         ADF
Mahmud Xhani                          ADF/Elbasan
Shefik Gjata                          ADF
-45 -



Lame Bejo                 Vlora
Alain Muzet               ADF - EU Phare
Michel Pochard            ADF - EU Phare
Shkelzen Marku            ISB
Klaud Manehasa            ISB - Co-plan
Haki Furriku              Municipality of Puka
Stavri Collaku            ADF - Korce
Leonard Prifti            ADF
Mahmud Xhani              ADF - Elbasan
Elena Galiano             World Bank
Mark Woodward             World Bank
Gillian Perkins           World Bank
Ibrahim Hackaj            World Bank
Silvia Mauri              World bank
Michel Voyer              Consultant
Paul Dean                 Consultant
Leonard Miloti            ADF
Shkelpim Sulce            RFF - Vlora
Ahmet Demaj                RFF - Viora
Shefki Nexha              RFF - Peshkopi
Zenel Shehu                RFF - Kastriot, Peshkopi
Ruzhdi Simoni              RFF - Elbasan
Haziz Hoxha               RFF - Gramsh
Petrit Simoni              RFF - Elbasan
Sadush Ibrahimi           RFF - Gramsh
Behar Gjoni                RFF
Rustem Bani               RFF - Kruja
Afrim Azumi                RFF - Tirana
Fadil Meta                RFF
Elda Ceribashi            RFF
Sokol Celo                 RFF
Engjell Frokues            RFF
Benet Beci                RFF
Zana Konini                RFF
Edmond Fishta             ADF
Milika Jaho               Municipality of Berat
Artur Kurti                Municipality of Kucova
Ilmi Gjeci                Maminas-Durres
Sherif Halili              Preze - Tirana
Kujtim Mema                Municipality of Vlora
Sofi Noti                  RFF
Mimoza Koroshi            ADF
Sef Slootweg               SNV - Fier
-46 -



