Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 020279
Swiss Grant Agreement
(for the cofinancing of the
Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project and
the Rural Development Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by
SWITZERLAND
Dated March 23, 1995
SWISS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1995, between ALBANIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by SWISS COOPERATION OFFICE FOR EASTERN EUROPE 
(SWITZERLAND).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Rural Poverty 
Alleviation Pilot Project), dated March 2, 1993, between the Recipient and the 
Association (the IDA Credit Agreement I) and a Project Agreement dated March 2, 1993, 
between the Rural Development Fund and the Association (the IDA Project Agreement), 
the Association has agreed to extend to the Recipient a credit in an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 1,800,000) to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the IDA Credit Agreement I (the Project);
(B)
pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Rural Development Project) to 
be entered between the Recipient and the Association (the IDA Credit Agreement II) and 
a Project Agreement to be entered between the Albanian Development Fund and the 
Association (the IDA Project Agreement  II), the Association intends to extend to the 
Recipient a credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,100,000) to assist in the financing of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreement II (the Project); and
(C)
pursuant to Letters of Agreement dated December 29, 1994 and January 4, 
1995, between Switzerland and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) and the Association, Switzerland has agreed in financing the Rural Poverty 
Alleviation Pilot Project and the Rural Development Project in the District of Puka 
and has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have 
agreed, to administer Swiss grant funds to be made available by Switzerland for the 
financing of the Project in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement; 
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12) 
and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
 
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
 
(v)
Article V;
 
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii) Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
 
(x)
Article XI.
 
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
 
(i)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Swiss Grant 
pursuant to the letter agreement between Switzerland and the Bank 
and the Association referred to in Recital (C) of this Agreement, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also 
include the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement except that in Section 
6.02 (a), the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the IDA 
Credit Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Swiss Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Swiss Grant is credited; and
(vi)
the term "Project" wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
The Swiss Grant
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an 
amount of one million eight hundred sixty two thousand seven hundred seventy-five 
dollars and fifty four cents ($1,862,775.54).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Swiss Grant may be withdrawn from the Swiss 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and 
the Administrator, for  expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the Swiss Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, goods, works 
and services to be financed out of the Swiss Grant shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the IDA Project Agreements I and II.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III, IV 
and V of the IDA Credit Agreements I and II, including the Schedules referred to 
therein, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as 
if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all references in said 
Articles to the "Association" shall be deemed to be references to the Association as 
Administrator of the Swiss Grant under this  Agreement, all references to the 
"Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Recipient,
and all references to the "Credit" and the "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be 
references to the Swiss Grant and the Swiss Grant Account, respectively.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association and 
Switzerland a semi-annual report on the progress of and the execution of the Project 
activities financed by the Swiss Grant, separately for each Project component.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
Page  4
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ Dylber Vrioni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Swiss Grant
By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Swiss Swiss Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Swiss Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Swiss Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                             Amount of the
                          Swiss Grant Allocated       % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                603,151.00         100%
(2) Small-scale                318,535.00         100%
    credits for
    village credit
    funds
(3) Small-scale                265,020.00         100%
    credits for
    microenterprises
(4) Technical                  354,665.00         100%
    assistance,
    studies, and
    training
(5) Equipment                   71,523.00         100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
Page  5
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 85%
                                                  of local expen-
                                                  ditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
(6) Incremental                119,450.00         100%
    operating
    costs
(7) Administration
    and audit fees              39,255.51
(8) Unallocated                 91,176.03
        TOTAL                1,862,775.54
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the IDA Credit 
Agreement I.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, 
works and services not exceeding $40,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions 
as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
For the purposes of this Swiss Grant Agreement, "Project" means the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreements I and II. The expenditures to be 
financed under this  Swiss Grant Agreement will be limited to the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for Project activities in the District of Puka. In 
addition to the Project described in Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreements, the 
Swiss Grant will finance loans not more than in an amount  equivalent to five thousand 
dollars ($5,000) to microentrepreneurs or other urban residents for income generating 
activities in urban microbusiness including, inter alia, small trade, small business, 
services, artisanal production of all types and basic contribution and rehabilitation.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the amount of the Swiss Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the  provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
Page  6
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Swiss Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Swiss Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Swiss Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Swiss Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the  recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
Page  7
including the General Conditions.
