Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2680 ALB
Project Agreement
(Rural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
Dated February 21, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2680 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 21, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (ADF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR4,100,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
ADF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ADF, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to ADF on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS ADF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ADF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ADF shall otherwise agree, ADF shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General  Conditions, ADF shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
ADF and the Association, a plan of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project; 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
ADF on said plan; and 
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
Section 2.04. ADF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. ADF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ADF shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) ADF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ADF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ADF of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ADF
Section 3.01. ADF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ADF shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and financial practices.
Page  3
Section 3.03. ADF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ADF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
ADF shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ADF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ADF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Association: 
International Development Association
Page  4
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For ADF:
Albanian Development Fund
Rruga Durresit
Instituti i Tokave
Tirana, Albania
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ADF, or by ADF 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Executive Director of ADF or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director of ADF shall designate in writing, and ADF shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
By /s/ Lublin Dilja
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under direct contracting in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association. 
2.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $60,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $155,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
Page  5
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different countries 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
3.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $30,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
4.
Goods of a proprietary nature, such as books, technical journals, training 
materials and computer software, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $15,000, may be purchased from suppliers on the basis of negotiated 
contracts pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Association. 
5.
Items or groups of items required for Part A of the Project, in the aggregate of 
$2,620,000, shall be procured by the Beneficiaries in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part B:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract: (i) for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $40,000 or more; and (ii) goods procured under Part A.4 of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure. 
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist ADF in carrying out the Project, ADF shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, ADF shall employ such consultants under contracts using the 
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, ADF shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Association. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply 
to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to 
single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably 
determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value 
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Page  6
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
Under Part A of the Project, ADF shall make available to the village credit 
committees the funds referred to in the Regulation and Operational Guidelines through 
village credit funds to be on-lent to the Beneficiaries by agreements to be entered 
into between the village credit committees and each Beneficiary, under the terms and 
conditions referred to in the Regulations and Operational Guidelines and which shall 
have been approved by the Association.
2.
Under Part B of the Project, ADF shall: 
 
(a)
make available to the Beneficiaries grants referred to in the Regulations 
and Operational Guidelines under agreements to be entered into between ADF and each 
Beneficiary, under the terms and conditions referred to in the Regulations and 
Operational Guidelines and which shall have been approved by the Association; and
(b)
exercise its rights under such agreements in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Association and ADF and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Project, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of such agreements, or any 
provisions thereof.
3.
ADF shall:
 
(a)
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the Project and supervise 
the carrying out by the Beneficiaries of their obligations pursuant to their 
respective agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
take all measures to ensure that the amount of any loan made under Part A 
of the Project shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000;
(c)
not later than November 30 of each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Association for review and comment, work plans and budgets for activities under each 
Part of the Project for the next calender year, which would include, among other 
things, specific proposals for the use of Borrower's contribution;
(d)
by March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year, prepare 
and furnish to the Association for review a report, of such scope and detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of and the execution of the 
Project; and
(e)
carry out a mid-term review not later than August 31, 1996 evaluating the 
progress of the Project. 
