                                Document of
                            The World Bank




                                                 Report No:ICR000044




    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (MULT-23251)

                                  ON A

                              GRANT FROM

      THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION 8.90

                                   TO

                   THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                  FOR A

       RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR AGRICULTURE PROJECT




                             January 29, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            (Exchange Rate Effective 01/29/2007)
                                 Currency Unit = Peso
                                      Peso 1.00 = US$ 0.091
                                      US$ 1.00 = Peso 11.04
                                          Fiscal Year
                                  January 1 - December 31




                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMPER       Mexican Association of Renewable Energy Suppliers
ANCE        Association of Normalization and Certification
ANES        National Association of Solar Energy
Alianza     Alliance with you (Alianza Contigo)
CIE-
            Energy Research Center of the National Autonomous University of Mexico
UNAM
CMU         Country Management Unit
CONAE       National Commission for Energy Saving
FIRCO       Trust Fund for Shared Risk
FOFAE       State Trust Funds for Distribution of Funds
GEF         Global Environmental Facility
IPR         Independent Procurement Review
NAFIN       Nacional Financiera
REAP        Mexico's Renewable Energy for Agriculture Program
SAGARPA Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fishing and Food
TA          Technical Assistance
UNAM        National Autonomous University of Mexico
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
USDOE       United States Department of Energy




         Vice President: Pamela Cox

       Country Director: Isabel M. Guerrero

        Sector Manager: Abel Mejia

    Project Team Leader: Michael G. Carroll




                                              - 1 -

                                                           Mexico
                   Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project (GEF)




                                                     CONTENTS


1. Basic Information..................................................................................................................... 3
2. Key Dates................................................................................................................................ 3
3. Ratings Summary.................................................................................................................... 3
4. Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................................... 4
5. Bank Staff................................................................................................................................ 4
6. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design................................................. 5
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.......................................................... 11
8. Assessment of Outcomes ..................................................................................................... 18
9. Assessment of Risk to Global Environment Outcome .......................................................... 25
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance............................................................... 26
11. Lessons Learned................................................................................................................. 30
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .................... 31

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis...................................................................................... 32
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any).................................................................................................. 39
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing...................................................................................... 40
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 42
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis) ............... 47
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................... 54
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance............................................... 56
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)............................................................................ 57
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)................................................... 58
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 59
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders................................. 60
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents.................................................................................. 61
Annex 13. Additional Annexes .................................................................................................. 62
Annex 13.1. Calculation of Carbon emissions avoided by the end of the project..................... 62
Annex 13.2. Cost of Installation per Watt and Average Costs per Kilowatt Hour..................... 63
Annex 13.3. Data on Output Targets Specified at Appraisal (Referred to in Annex 4)............. 64
Annex 13.4. Detailed Data on the Case Study Farms Treated in Annex 5............................... 65
Annex 13.5. Evolution of Costs of Solar Water Pumping Systems........................................... 69
Annex 13.6. Evidence Available Indicative of Income Status of Beneficiaries ......................... 72




                                                              - 2 -

1. Basic Information
                                                                      Renewable Energy for
Country:                Mexico                Project Name:           Agriculture Project
                                                                      (GEF)
Project ID:             P060718               L/C/TF Number(s):       MULT-23251
ICR Date:               01/29/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               NAFIN
Original GEF grant
amount                  USD 8.9M              Disbursed Amount:       USD 8.9M

Environmental
Category:               B                     GEF Focal Area          B

Implementing Agencies

SAGARPA
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 03/04/1999           Effectiveness:     06/30/2000
Appraisal:         07/26/1999        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          12/21/1999        Mid-term Review:                     06/03/2004
                                     Closing:           06/30/2004        06/29/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):          None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):    None

GEO rating before
Closing/Inactive status         Satisfactory




                                            - 3 -

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                       Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                                5                   5
Central government administration                               45                 45
Renewable energy                                                50                 50
                                                  Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Rural services and infrastructure                   Primary           Primary
Other rural development                             Primary           Primary
Climate change                                      Secondary         Secondary
Environmental policies and institutions             Secondary         Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                      At ICR          At Approval
Vice President:                                   Pamela Cox        David de Ferranti
Country Director:                                 Isabel M. Guerrero Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                                   Abel Mejia         John Redwood
Project Team Leader:                              Michael G. Carroll Michael G. Carroll
ICR Team Leader:                                  Michael G. Carroll

ICR Primary Author:                               Francisco J.
                                                  Proenza




                                          - 4 -

6. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

6.1 Context at Appraisal

This project was the first project in the World Bank to be funded by the GEF's Climate
Change program. It was also the first to concentrate on improving productive uses of
renewable energy in order to catalyze the use of carbon neutral energy sources. Despite
its success, it remains one of the very few examples of Bank projects that have intended
to promote the use of renewable energy for productive uses (see for instance the project's
prominence in the renewable energy toolkit (http://retoolkit.worldbank.org/). The GEF
contribution was essential for the project to achieve a reduction in carbon emissions as,
without this incremental contribution, the project would simply have
promoted productive uses in agriculture through using conventional energy sources.

At the time of project preparation, the World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy
for Mexico discussed a development agenda with three core themes: (i) social
sustainability; (ii) removing obstacles to sustainable growth and maintaining macro-
economic stability; and (iii) more effective public governance. The project was designed
to contribute directly to all three themes. The social theme was to be addressed by
increasing the income of farmers and thereby improving the standard of living in rural
areas. The growth theme, as well as its key element of protecting the environment, was to
be addressed by improving the productivity of farmers using environmentally-neutral,
least-cost renewable energy technologies. Finally, the public governance theme was to be
addressed by assisting the Government in its decentralization efforts and building the
capacity of government agencies to provide farmers with technical assistance.

In addition, the project was designed to promote the World Bank Group's strategy on the
environment in Mexico, under which "priority will be given to identifying "win-win"
investment opportunities, where global environmental benefits and national economic
benefits can be generated through an integrated and mainstreamed approach to
development priorities".

The project mainly sought to address these issues in the agriculture and energy sectors.

Agriculture:
At the time of appraisal, agriculture remained a weak sector of the Mexican economy,
whilst at the same time being a primary emitter of carbon, mainly through the use of
internal combustion engines for motive power and for generating electricity for heating
and cooling. Rural poverty had also been increasing in previous years and many farmers
had limited options to cope with income and consumption fluctuations. Nevertheless,
agriculture had the potential to remain an important economic sector provided: a) its
commercial sector continued to be competitive through the use of modern technologies
and increased yields; and b) the productive potential of small-scale farming could be
fully developed.




                                            - 5 -

Improving the delivery of financial services to the rural population was also a
key constraint to development of the agricultural sector. Financial services were severely
deficient in rural areas and access to financial resources for productive investment
continued to be limited, especially for small farmers.

In 1996, the Government launched a national agriculture and rural development initiative
­ the Alianza para el Campo (Alianza) Program ­ to increase capitalization in the
agriculture sector with the aim of promoting improved agricultural productivity and
production and increased farmer incomes. The Program fostered, and continues to
foster, agricultural productivity improvements by financing productive investments
(under a matching grant scheme) and by providing support services (research, extension,
information and training) for a wide range of agricultural activities. In providing
matching grants for the acquisition of capital equipment, Alianza essentially substitutes
for absent rural finance services. The cornerstones of the Alianza program are its
decentralized approach, with administration and decision-making delegated to the States,
and its demand-driven nature, providing financing and support services only in response
to requests from farmers. This project was designed to build on Alianza's engagement
with farmers.

In tandem with this, the Government developed the Agricultural Productivity
Improvement Project (ALCAMPO) to support and improve Alianza's delivery of
financing and technical services. The project was approved for a loan of US$445 million
from the World Bank in December 1998 and began implementation in early 1999.

The Government was also engaged with the World Bank on a number of initiatives to
improve rural finance. In 1994, the Government worked with the Bank on a study of
rural financial markets. In 1996 it initiated the Rural Finance Technical Assistance and
Pilot Project with World Bank assistance to encourage private banks to increase their
services in rural areas. Through the Bank-supported Rural Development in Marginal
Areas Project, the Government was experimenting with community-based revolving loan
funds and cost-recovery within Alianza. SAGAR was also working with the Bank on a
new study of the potential for savings mobilization and deposit instruments in marginal
areas and exploring the possibility of a World Bank loan to finance its Micro-Credit
Fund for Rural Women.

Energy:
Approximately 5 percent of Mexico's population remained without access to electricity
including an estimated 5 million people, 88,000 villages and 600,000 livestock farms.
While governments at all levels recognized the productivity and social development
benefits of rural electrification, and especially of the electrification of farms, budget
limitations and rural poverty prevented this for the vast majority of these people and
were expected to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.

Nevertheless, the Federal Government supported rural electrification through transfer
payments to state and municipal governments for infrastructure and social development
investments. Several states had used these federal funds to support the electrification of



                                             - 6 -

rural households with renewable energy by providing matching grants towards the
purchase of solar home systems. However, the decision about whether to use these funds
for rural electrification or other purposes, was left to state and municipal governments.

In 1994, the Federal Government began to further support the electrification of farms
with renewable energy in 8 of the country's 32 states through FIRCO's participation in
the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program. The experience
gained by FIRCO through this program enabled the government to expand the scope of
Alianza to cover the electrification of farms with renewable energy systems and by the
time of project preparation, farmers could receive matching grants from Alianza towards
the purchase of renewable energy systems to pump water and power farm equipment.
Further, farmers could receive proportionately larger grants for renewable energy
systems than for conventional farm equipment and infrastructure. However, this
experience demonstrated a number of barriers which were preventing the development of
a self-sustaining market in farm-based renewable energy systems. These barriers
included:

a) a lack of awareness among unelectrified farmers of renewable energy technologies;

b) a lack of trained technicians and vendors that could design, install and service
renewable energy systems and a lack of agricultural extensionists that could advise
farmers on their proper operation;

c) a lack of technical specifications and certification processes for renewable energy
equipment;

d) uncertainty within the Mexican renewable energy industry regarding the potential
market for renewable energy systems in the agricultural sector and potential applications
of renewable energy technologies on farms;

e) farmers' perceptions of renewable energy technologies as risky, simply because they
are novel; and

f) the high initial cost of renewable energy systems, relative to conventional alternatives,
coupled with deficient rural finance services that prevent farmers from spreading
this higher initial cost over time.

6.2 Original Global Environmental Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


Project global objectives were:

1. To promote the use of renewable energy for productive purposes in Mexico's
agriculture sector by removing barriers and reducing implementation costs; and

2. To reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the agriculture sector.




                                             - 7 -

Project development objectives were:

1. To provide unelectrified farmers with reliable electricity supply for productive
purposes in a least-cost and sustainable manner using renewable energy technologies;

2. To increase the productivity and income of unelectrified farmers by supporting the
adoption of productive investments and improved farming practices; and

3. To improve FIRCO's ability to catalyze the penetration of renewable energy
technologies in the agriculture sector.

Key Impact Indicators were:

1. National sales of RE systems for productive agricultural aplications;

2. Change in average price of RE systems;

3. Carbon emissions avoided by project-supported RE systems; and

4. Change in average net income of participating farmers.

The project document did not assign a specific indicator to measuring FIRCO's ability to
catalyze the penetration of renewable energy technologies in the agriculture sector.
However, the indicators of "percentage of direct beneficiaries surveyed who learned of
the equipment through FIRCO's promotional activities" (86%), "number of replica
renewable energy systems installed" (847 documented replicas) and "total number of
technicians and extensionists trained in renewable energy technologies" (3,022 or 121%
of the original goal of 2,500) give a good measure of how the project achieved this
objective.

6.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


There were no revisions to the Global Environmental Objective or to the key indicators.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

Environmentally, the project was designed to avoid the emission of greenhouse gases
from gasoline-powered or grid-connected systems by substituting these with solar- and
wind-powered systems. It was anticipated that by the end of the project, the
demonstration and vendor financed systems installed would abate roughly 30,000 metric
tonnes of carbon per year (in fact it abated in excess of 36,292 tonnes - the equivalent of
over 544,380 metric tonnes over the 15 year average life span of the renewable energy
systems). More importantly, the project was designed to catalyze a national market for
farm-based renewable energy systems among Mexico's estimated 600,000 unelectrified
livestock farms leading to sustained and increasing reductions in carbon emissions in the
future.




                                            - 8 -

The project was also planned to catalyze the penetration of renewable energy systems
among one-third of the country's unelectrified farms within ten years, a development that
would avoid an estimated 0.73 million metric tonnes of carbon annually. In addition, the
project was expected to reduce local air, water and soil pollution associated with
gasoline-powered farm equipment. The reduction in water and soil pollution was
regarded as particularly significant because gasoline-powered pumps are typically
located at or in wells that serve livestock and human populations.

The project's target population was both the estimated 600,000 unelectrified livestock
farms in Mexico and the industry of renewable energy vendors and service providers that
could cater to this market. The project was designed to target all farmers whether or not
they participated in Alianza. However, farmers that were not participating in Alianza
were considered wealthy enough to purchase renewable energy systems without financial
assistance and so only those participating in Alianza were eligible to benefit financially
from the project's "demonstration" component. Nevertheless, the other components of
the project were designed to benefit all farmers by increasing their awareness of, and
confidence in, renewable energy systems and thereby increasing their purchase of these
systems.

Poorer farmers that would be unable individually to purchase a renewable energy system,
even with the project's financial assistance, were encouraged to participate by combining
with neighboring farmers to purchase a renewable energy system that would serve them
as a group. For example, several farmers with adjacent properties could construct a
central watering trough connected to a solar-powered pump. Many of the solar-powered
pumps installed by the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Programs
supplied water to two or more farmers. Market research was carried out early in project
implementation in order to improve information about this target population.

Ultimately the criteria for eligibility for gaining funding under this "demonstration"
component were: i) being eligible to obtain funding from Alianza; ii) being situated more
than 1 km from the electricity grid; iii) having a potential water supply of at least 2 liters
per minute and iv) being able to fund at least 50% of the costs. Section 7.1 explains
further how proposals for receiving funding were handled.

The project was planned to benefit these farmers economically by increasing their
incomes through providing renewable energy systems that have superior reliability and
lower life-cycle costs in comparison to conventional gasoline-powered systems.
Experience under the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program
indicated that solar-powered pumps are more reliable than gasoline-powered pumps, in
part because they have fewer moving parts. Fuel costs make up roughly half the life-
cycle cost of gasoline-powered pumps and since solar- and wind-powered pumps have
no fuel costs, this meant an immediate saving among participating farmers and an
average 16 percent return on investment. Further increases in participating farmers'
incomes of between 85 and 190 percent were expected to result from production
increases made possible by the lower operating costs - since additional operation of
solar- and wind-powered pumps is essentially free, some farmers had been observed to
pump more water and use the excess to irrigate a small field for forage or fruit and
vegetable production.



                                              - 9 -

While the overall financial benefit to participating farmers was seen as substantial,
demonstration systems and the project's financial assistance was necessary in order to
overcome the perceived risk of investing in renewable energy technologies and to get
these systems into the field where they can have a demonstration impact among other
farmers. In social terms, the project was designed to lead to improvements in overall
food security and quality of life in rural areas.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)


The project was developed at a time when it was usual to have many components. In
reality, these components were not separate activities but were implemented together
with significant synergies and collaboration occuring among them. If the project were
developed today, it is likely that many of these would be concatenated as
"subcomponents" within fewer main "components" and in effect, this is what was
achieved.

The components were.

1. Promotion ­ to carry out a promotion campaign targeting renewable energy for
productive purposes in the agriculture sector.

2. Institutional Strengthening ­ to provide training to technicians, agricultural
extensionists and renewable energy system vendors.

3. Specifications and Certification ­ to introduce technical specifications and
certification procedures for farm-based renewable energy equipment and its installation.

4. Market Development ­ to carry out studies on the potential market and productive
applications for renewable energy systems in the agriculture sector.

5. Demonstration ­ to install renewable energy systems (such as solar- and wind-
powered water pumping systems and solar-powered refrigerated milk storage tanks,
etc.) among participating farmers as demonstration units.

6. Technical Assistance ­ for renewable energy-trained agricultural extensionists to
advise participating farmers on the proper operation of their renewable energy systems.

7. Vendor Financing ­ to implement a pilot program to test innovative vendor financing
mechanisms for farm-based renewable energy systems in four states.

8. Project Management ­ for FIRCO to carry out or coordinate project administration,
auditing, monitoring and evaluation.




                                             - 10 -

6.6 Revised Components

The components of the project were not revised during implementation.

6.7 Other significant changes

There were no significant changes in the project's design, scope or scale during
implementation.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Rating of quality at entry: Satisfactory

The project design was thoroughly researched and developed and built directly on the
experience of Mexico's Renewable Energy Program (www.re.sandia.gov/index.html;
PERM for its Spanish acronym), a USAID and US Department of Energy sponsored
project coordinated by Sandia National Laboratories. Between 1994 and 2001 the PERM
project installed 206 Photovoltaic water pumping systems in 4 states of the country (Baja
California Sur, Chihuahua, Quintana Roo and Sonora). The satisfactory results of this
program were noted at appraisal, and to this day continue to yield satisfactory benefits.
(See Espericueta et al. 2004.)

In particular, the program benefited by being able to access beneficiaries through the
government's existing "Alianza" (Aliance with you) rural development program which
delivers financial help to poor farmers to develop productive activities (see below).
Alianza offered financial help to farmers in three broad subprograms: "fertilization-
irrigation", "establishment of pastures and dairy farming" and later on "rural
development". Approval by Alianza was a prerequisite for REAP funding and in order to
get this approval, a farmer or consortium of farmers had to submit a request to Alianza,
including an explanation of the proposed investments in renewable energy infrastructure.

This process was helped by FIRCO-trained technical advisors who ensured that the
proposal was technically and economically feasible and met both Alianza and REAP
criteria. Then, once initial approval from Alianza was received, FIRCO (The Trust Fund
for Shared Risk - a department within the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural
Development, Fishing and Food - SAGARPA) checked that the proposal conformed to
REAP criteria (e.g. having a permanent reliable water source, being at least 1km from the
electricity grid) before providing partial funding for the project.

Through this partnership, it was relatively easy to ensure that the GEF funding
concentrated solely on co-funding the incremental cost of supplying panels to systems
while other activities, including promoting production activities and other goods required
to pump and store water, were funded through Alianza. In addition to funding from
Alianza, beneficiaries were required to contribute 50% of funds in order to ensure
ownership.


                                            - 11 -

The appraisal report identified barriers preventing greater use of renewable energy and
the project's design included specific components to help overcome these barriers.
Through this it catalyzed the use of renewable energy thus offsetting significant carbon
emissions immediately (36,292 tonnes per year) and creating an environment where
renewable energy sources will continue to be used in place of carbon emitting sources
and a replicable model for further applications in Mexico and beyond.


         Barrier identified at appraisal                       Components
                                                            Addressing Barrier
   Human capacity barriers: limited number of    Institutional Strengthening
   technicians and extension staff trained in
   renewable energy
   Lack of awareness and limited information     Promotion,
   among farmers without electricity             Demonstration
                                                 Technical Assistance

   Lack of information about the renewable       Market Development
   energy market and viable applications for
   agriculture
   Farmers' high perception of risks regarding   Demonstration
   renewable energy                              Technical Assistance

   Consumer confidence barriers                  Specifications and Certification

   High investment costs and limited financing   Vendor Financing
   options available


These components proved to be suitable for addressing the identified barriers (see
Outcomes ­ section 8 below ­ and Annex 4). Operationally, four key lessons-learned
informed project procedures and contributed to successful implementation of the
components:

1. Flexibility and a demand-driven approach were considered key to building ownership,
defining local priorities and facilitating implementation and sustainability. This led to the
incorporation of the GEF project within Mexico's Alianza - a national comprehensive
program of financial support to help Mexican farmers to invest in their farms that is run
by SAGARPA but implemented in a decentralized manner by the Fideicomisos Estatales
de Distribucion de Fondos (FOFAE) or the "State Trust Funds for Distribution of
Funds".

2. Linking the GEF intervention with Alianza was expected to be useful for the following
reasons (all of which proved well founded during implementation):
- it was expected to enable the use of an existing financial and accounting administrative
structure that would facilitate project management and disbursements;
- it was expected to enable provision of complementary financing to support on-farm
investments (such as fencing and pastures) that would enable significant increases in
productivity;
- it was expected to provide a demand-driven mechanism whereby farmers could
respond to the technical solutions offered by the project; and



                                            - 12 -

 - it was expected to facilitate decentralized and widespread project implementation
engaging not only FIRCO staff located in the agency's 28 regional offices, but also other
SAGARPA officials engaged in Alianza and thus institutionalize the spread of
knowledge about practically useful renewable energy technology options.

3. The project sought to establish a critical mass of demonstrations ­ at least 34 in each
state1 ­ to catalyze the formation of local or regional markets for renewable energy
systems. In practice, a total of 1,545 demonstrations were funded in 28 States. The
average number of demonstrations per state was 55. The state that had the fewest
demonstrations was Mexico D.F. with 6. Four states had between 10 and 20
demonstrations; another four had between 20 and 34, and 19 had more than 34. Most of
the demonstrations were in Mexico's arid region (see table below). To some extent this
was related to livestock populations given the dominant focus on water pumping for
livestock; but it is considered that it is more directly related to greater demand for
renewable energy in arid States.


            Region             Cattle population             No of demonstrations
                               No.         % of Total          No.          % of Total
        Arid                7,075,170        24.3%            1,545           65.0%
        Temperate           8,755,975        30.1%             360            15.1%
        Tropical           13,255,855        45.6%             473            19.9%
        Total              29,087,000       100.0%            2,378           100.0%

4. The project also included a technical assistance component in order to ensure that
participating farmers would satisfactorily operate the systems and reap maximum
benefits from their use. After several trials with different forms of contracting the
technical assistance2, the project hired 48 technical advisors (at its peak) through a
competitive process, to serve under the leadership of 28 FIRCO Regional agencies.
Advisors played a key role in:
 - promoting the technology among farmers and demonstrating how it worked and how it
was maintained;
 - helping farmers fill out forms and channeling their funding requests to FIRCO regional
offices as well as to SAGARPA's regional offices managing the Alianza program; and
 - advising farmers on how to benefit from their investments.



1Mexico has 31 states and a Federal District. The two states not included were Sonora and
Quintana Roo which had already benefited from demonstrations funded by the USAID/USDOE
project. The REAP project also supported 27 projects in Baja California Sur through financing,
but not for demonstration purposes. Baja California had also received support from the
USAID/USDOE project.

2 One of these options, for example, provided for direct hiring of the advisers by the farmers
themselves. See details in FIRCO (2006).




                                             - 13 -

According to the Final Market Study survey of beneficiaries, advisors provided technical
assistance to an estimated 73%3 of beneficiaries executing demonstration projects. About
74% of farmers who benefited from this assistance rated it to be satisfactory; only 6%
rated it as unsatisfactory (the remaining 20% did not respond). Survey respondents
indicated having acted on specific recommendations received from their technical
advisors in very concrete productive activities, such as vaccination schedules, animal
husbandry and agricultural practices. About 55% of respondents indicated that technical
advisors also helped in getting investment funding from other sources (including but not
exclusively Alianza).

Out of the 70% who responded to questions regarding the impact of technical assistance,
94% considered it to have had a positive impact on their productivity and 91% indicated
it had had a positive financial impact. Of those who said they had received positive
economic benefits from technical assistance (984 beneficiaries in all), 24% said they had
benefited significantly, 62% considered the benefit received as "medium", and 14%
considered it to have been "little".

7.2 Implementation

The project's implementation is considered to have been satisfactory. The eight project
components were mutually supporting lines of action implemented in an integrated
fashion by FIRCO's implementation unit. Funds were used largely as planned including
some considerable savings achieved in costs in some components such as Specifications
and Certification (US$ 0.2 million) and Project Management (US$ 0.8 million). These
savings were achieved without compromising the quality or impacts of these
components. The Vendor Financing component did not receive the response from states
that had been expected at appraisal (US$ 205,000 was disbursed in comparison with the
anticipated US$ 2.5 million) but this nevertheless tested various financing options with
the most successful occurring in Baja California Sur where funds were provided that
enabled 22 renewable energy replications to be developed.

In total, cost savings of US$9.57 million were made in comparison to initial estimates.
These were made without compromising achievement of the goals set at appraisal. In
particular, cost savings were made in demonstration system through there being a lower
cost for units than estimated at appraisal. This is because installation costs and costs of
certain system parts were lower than estimated and this is considered to be due to
economies of scale occurring following increased supply of such technology.

The project was not restructured during implementation. The only significant structural
change was to extend the original project-closing date from June 30, 2004 to June 29,
2006 and to make minor reallocations of funding among components.

3The figure of 73% may be a low estimate. It is based on a survey of beneficiaries undertaken
in connection with the market study. FIRCO records indicate that a total of 1,302 farms or
about 83% of all demonstration projects funded received technical assistance.




                                            - 14 -

The extension was mainly necessary due to delays in start up which occurred as prior
commitments initially prevented the Alianza program from providing complete financial
assistance to accompany the project's investments. Once these initial delays were
overcome, the program evolved satisfactorily, with full disbursement of funds following
an extension of the closing date.

The main modifications to the project concerned amplifying the technical assistance
activities. Early on in implementation it was realized that in order to create demand for
the installation of systems and for the systems to have the maximum impact on
beneficiaries, dissemination of technology had to be closely allied to providing
information about how to develop the productive processes that would be enabled by the
technology. Close supervision at the project's start, combined with continuity of the Task
Manager and Task Team and excellent collaboration with the implementing agency
enabled these potential modifications to be identified and implemented. It is considered
that this technical assistance was key to the project's success and that it is a key lesson
learned for replication. As such it has been included as the key message from the project
in the World Bank's "Renewable Energy Toolkit" (http://retoolkit.worldbank.org/).

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The project was implemented in a decentralized manner and close monitoring of field
activities is considered to have been key to the project's success. Comprehensive
monitoring was achieved by combining information on physical conditions (provided by
FIRCO) and financial conditions (provided by NAFIN). This information was collected
by each of the 28 decentralized FIRCO regional offices from which local Technical
Assistance providers monitored each individual project both during the construction and,
more importantly, the implementation phase when production data was collected for each
of the units.

This monitoring followed the guidelines in the Operational Manual produced by
the Project Coordination Unit at FIRCO headquarters and included diagnostic studies of
every demonstration project, a program of technical assistance for every beneficiary, and
a program of training events and demonstrations. Each regional office prepared State
Energy Programs with detailed information on each demonstration unit[1], further
information on overall plans and targets, periodic progress reports and a final evaluation
report at the end of the project.This information was passed to FIRCO and is
partially expressed in the project indicators which were regularly updated. In
particular, for each Bank supervision mission, updated, comprehensive indicator values
for both financial and physical performance were always presented to the task team.

The National Workshops undertaken helped to form a cohesive national project
implementation team comprising regional and headquarters FIRCO staff and in the
process these became a key mechanism for monitoring and controling project activities.
The first two workshops took place in 2000 and helped launch the projects. Subsequent
workshops ­ called "Monitoring and Control Workshops" ­ provided for the exchange
ideas between headquarters and Regional office staff and gave FIRCO stakeholders the



                                            - 15 -

opportunity to discuss basic operational documents regarding procedures (e.g. Guidelines
for project disbursements, procedures for contracting external technical advisors, the
Project Manual (prepared in 2002), the Operations Manual (2003), procedures for cost
recovery in courses imparted). Key technical documents (e.g. Technical Specifications
for Water Pumping Systems using Photovoltaic Energy), impart specialized training to
staff (e.g. on Grundfos improved water pumping equipment) and review progress in the
State Energy Programs that set out annual targets for the regional offices.

A very powerful Web based information systems was also developed and made available
online by FIRCO (www.energiarenovable.com.mx) to provide a rapid means of
interaction between the FIRCO and stakeholders. The system had the following
attributes:

i. It provided comprehensive information about the project and its status for the General
Public (description of renewable energy options; description of project components;
number and location of installed modules, events and technical assistance; requirements
for producers to qualify as beneficiaries, detailed description of procedures involved in
the application process). This served not only to inform the public and disseminate
knowledge about renewable energy, but also added transparency to FIRCO's operations
through providing comprehensive reporting (e.g. the demonstration dataset is available
through this system).

ii. It facilitated monitoring of technical advisors who were required to periodically
report on their activities before receiving payments for their services.

iii. It made it easier for staff acting on behalf of farmers (or for farmers themselves if
they had access to the web) to submit forms, request price offers from qualified suppliers
and to choose quickly which of the suppliers they wished to perform the service for
them.

iv. It described the process of certification of qualified Photovoltaic Water Pumping
System Suppliers and the technical requirements of PV water pumping projects, and
presents a list of all the companies (58 in all) regarded as "reliable" suppliers.

In addition, the Mid-Term Review contained a thorough assessment of the achievement
of project objectives, progress of implementation and project indicators. Also the final
borrower's report produced by FIRCO contains information and a thorough assessment
of project implementation and achievements.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project was directed to benefit the environment and its environmental effects were
designed to be overwhelmingly positive. The project was assessed as falling within
Environmental category B and complied with all relevant safeguards policies throughout
its operation. Compliance and overal benefits to the environment were ensured through
each individual subproject being subject to an environmental checklist during design and
implementation.




                                             - 16 -

During preparation, concern was raised over the possible use of batteries to store power
as the disposal of these could lead to pollution. In the final project design, this was
avoided by ensuring that the systems promoted used only involved direct power and no
storage. In other applications such as the pilot projects testing the viability of producing
and using milk cooling equipment, care was made when reviewing plans to ensure all
applications conformed to safeguards criteria.

The possibility of depletion of water in cases where water pumping systems were used
was mitigated by ensuring that the farms where this was used had an adequate supply of
groundwater and that the wells were sufficient to supply the pumping equipment. This
was tested using standard criteria developed by Alianza and revised by the project team.

Although the primary objective of the project had to be environmental rather than social
in nature, achievement of significant reductions in poverty were ensured as most of the
beneficiaries were small farmers, located a long way from the electricity grid
and classified as being below the poverty line.

Regarding other Bank safeguards, the combination of project objectives, the types of
investments made and the monitoring and assessment of potential and actual effects
ensured that none were triggered by the project.

Regarding fiduciary compliance, all aspects of disbursement, financial management and
audit were fully complied with, mainly as a result of the diligence of NAFIN as the
financial intermediary for the project and also due to the close assistance provided by the
Financial Management team based in Mexico.

Overall FIRCO, with the support of NAFIN, maintained financial management systems
(including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing) adequate to provide to the
World Bank accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures. FIRCO implemented the agreed action plan for strengthening of its
financial management system and produced statements and progress reports used for
project management and monitoring purposes.

The project was annually audited (including the Special Account) and with regard to
procurement, in all cases, all contracts for works and services were conducted in strict
compliance with Bank guidelines. This was verified throughout the project by the regular
supervision missions conducted by the Bank. It was further documented by the
independent procurement review concluded in 2006. This independent procurement
review is also mentioned in Section 10.2 of this report and the review itself can be found
in project files.




                                            - 17 -

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Discussions with the Government of Mexico are continuing, following the recent
elections and change of administration, about a possible follow-up operation.

Since 2004, one of FIRCO's formal objectives has been to develop and promote the use
of renewable energy in rural areas and it is looking for programs and activities through
which to do this. If no specific loan/grant-financed follow-up operation takes place then
it is therefore, nevertheless, likely that the government will continue with certain aspects
of the project, using its own resources, including:
     · certification;
     · demonstration;
     · dissemination activities, particularly through the agreement with ANES; and
     · education through the distance-learning diploma.

It does appear, however, that it might be possible for a follow-up operation to build on
the project using an IBRD loan investing in a broad rural development strategy
implementing integrated natural resource management activities aimed at developing
productive processes and linking this with a GEF grant aimed at promoting the use of
renewable energy within these productive processes. Such an approach could both
promote the use of renewable energy directly (through GEF-financed activities) and
create an environment where there is sustained increased demand for such renewable
energy.

This would both facilitate supply of renewable energy and increase demand to ensure
replication and long-term sustainability of interventions.

In addition to this, there is a further GEF / IBRD blended Integrated Energy Services
project in the final stages of preparation which is planning to supply renewable energy
for poor unelectrified people mainly in the southern states of Guerrero, Oaxaca, Veracruz
and Chiapas. It is proposed that this would comprise a US$ 15 million GEF loan and a
US$ 15 million IBRD grant and would be primarily implemented by SENER, the
Ministry of Energy, but also building on the capacity built in FIRCO and the other work
of, and lessons learned from, the REAP project. The Integrated Energy Services project
is expected to be appraised with the new administration in early 2007.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory

The project was fully consistent with GEF Operational Program 6: Promoting renewable
energy by removing barriers and reducing implementation costs. It has also been fully
compatible with the Mexican government's national priorities, which are attaching
increasing importance to developing alternative renewable sources of energy.




                                              - 18 -

In the absence of the GEF contribution, activities would simply have concentrated on
improving livelihoods through promoting productive uses in agriculture. Thus GEF
funding was essential to produce the incremental effect of promoting renewable energy
and subsequent carbon emissions reductions.

The project was also fully consistent with the Mexico Country Assistance Strategy and
contributed directly to the three core themes of: i) social sustainability; ii) removing
obstacles to sustainable growth and maintaining macro-economic stability; and iii) more
effective public governance. It also contributed to the World Bank Group's strategy on
the environment which gives priority to "win-win" investment opportunities where
global environmental benefits and national economic benefits can be generated through
an integrated and mainstreamed approach to development.

In addition, the project design reflected a pertinent diagnosis of a development priority
that has continued to be relevant and is currently increasing in importance.

8.2 Achievement of Global Environment Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory

The project achieved all three project development objectives defined at appraisal.

As the World Bank's first experience of promoting productive uses of renewable energy,
the project was also a pilot with the objective of testing the potential for such projects in
the future and also of testing the market in Mexico for promoting renewable energy
through such a project. Both these objectives were also fulfilled and project activities
have been disseminated: i) throughout the Bank and GEF, particularly via the renewable
energy toolkit and the golden plough award; ii) throughout the world, particularly via
participation in the renewable energy congresses in Mexico and the global renewable
energy "coloquio" in Mexico city in 2006; and iii) throughout Mexico via FIRCO's
ongoing extension work, via the proposed World Bank renewable energy supply in
Mexico project and via further planned World Bank activities in the country.

1) An estimated 2,312 farmers who previously had had no electricity were provided with
a reliable electricity supply for productive purposes in a least-cost and sustainable
manner, primarily (but not exclusively) through photovoltaic-energy water-pumping
systems.

The principal indicator of achievement of this development objective identified at
appraisal was national sales of renewable energy systems. FIRCO (2006) estimates of the
number of PV systems established prior to the project and resulting from the project as
follows:




                                            - 19 -

               Systems installed prior to GEF project (in 1994-2000
               with support of USAID-USDOE project)                                                      195

               Systems installed as a result of the project:
                 REAP supported demonstrations                                                          1,545
                 Other systems (réplicas)*                                                               867
               Total                                                                                    2,312
               % Increase in sales of PV systems                                                        789%
*Most of the replica systems were developed with funding from Alianza and other government programs. The number of replica
systems reported does not include the 29 systems supported by the project's financing component in Baja California Sur


As these systems are only economically attractive in places far from the electricity grid,
it is likely that almost all of them were installed in farms which previously were
unelectrified. This is particularly true of the 1,545 REAP-funded installations for
which being far from the grid was a precondition of getting funding.

2) A second indicator of achievement of this objective identified at appraisal was the
change in the average price of renewable energy system. It is estimated that the average
cost per watt installed of PV water pump systems sold in 2004-5 was 24-25% lower than
those installed by the project in 2001-2002 (See Annex 13.4). The reasons underlying
this reduction in cost are not entirely clear. A major driver in the cost of photovoltaic
systems is the cost of the photovoltaic panels which are presently manufactured abroad
and these have actually tended to increase in the past three years - considered to be
because of strong demand in Europe. It would appear that project activities, in terms of:
establishing service and equipment quality specifications; reducing unfamiliarity
regarding the technology (and any risk premium that might be associated with this
unfamiliarity); and stimulating start-up of new enterprises, have played a considerable
role in reducing these costs.

3) A significant number of farmers saw their productivity and incomes increase as a
result of their adoption of productive investments and improved farming practices. A
rough preliminary estimate, based on an evaluation of three beneficiary farms, shows that
in these cases average on-farm increases in income more than doubled (rising by 139%)
­ correcting for the distortion of receiving project income.

Survey results undertaken in connection with the second market study confirm that the
benefits from demonstration projects were widespread among beneficiary farmers. 88%
of beneficiaries surveyed stated that the equipment obtained through the project was
useful for their productive activities. Only 2% said that it had not been useful. The
remaining 10% did not respond to the question. When further asked why they felt the
equipment was useful: most respondents (67%) said for water distribution; about 17%
cited a reduction in cost; and 4% mentioned fuel savings. Evidence from studies of four
farms used to model and project economic benefits suggest that net farm incomes with
the project will have increased significantly as a result of the project (see section 8.3 and
details in Annex 5).




                                                             - 20 -

4) FIRCO played a fundamental catalytic role in promoting, disseminating and
identifying new productive applications of renewable energy technology. Furthermore,
the agency's ability to continue to play such an effective role was systematically
strengthened by the project. (See section 8.5 (b) on Institutional Change/Strengthening.)

The project also achieved both Global Environmental Objectives:

1) It promoted the use of renewable energy for productive purposes as demonstrated
above; and

2) It reduced greenhouse gas emissions in the agricultural sector. As shown in annex
13.1, in its final year of implementation the project avoided more than 36,292 tonnes of
carbon emissions (121% of its target figure of 30,000 tonnes). This reduction is expected
to be sustained and increased in the future as further replication systems
are implemented.

Annex 4 (especially Table 4-8) details how project implementation achieved and
surpassed all outputs expected at appraisal.

8.3 Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory

On-farm benefits are estimated to have been significant. In part this is because of
government subsidies provided by the Alianza program and by this project, but also it
appears that incomes have increased significantly following project-induced increases in
production and productivity. Incomes in the four farm models studied increased five-fold
in the arid region case-study (La Laborcita demonstration project), nearly three-fold in
the temperate zone case study (El Porvenir), and about 64% in the tropical farm case
study (Las Palomas).

Rates of return on farm investments are also considered to be positive and significant,
although less than those anticipated at appraisal. (The rate of return on investment
estimated at appraisal was 30.9%.)

                                           Arid
                                                             Temperate         Tropical
                                  Livestock       Mixed
 Appraisal Models                     44%                        19%             35%
 ICR Models                           18%          20%           17%             26%

The projected rates of return appear more realistic than those anticipated at
appraisal. Photovoltaic water pumping systems are profitable relative to systems powered
with conventional energy when: i. the investment lifetime is long (e.g. 15-20 years); ii.
relatively low amounts of energy are required (e.g. less than 1,500 W); and iii. they serve
remote places located far from the grid where the cost of transporting fuel is high. The
last two conditions tend to limit the kind of on-farm investments that can be profitable



                                           - 21 -

using PV systems, for example to watering livestock or to other products that are not
disadvantaged through their being distant from markets (e.g. sorghum for fodder).
Consequently, while PV systems can increase productivity and incomes, they
are unlikely to yield very high on-farm returns.

Implementation by FIRCO was efficient and resulted in lower support costs than
anticipated at appraisal (see Annex 5, Table 5.11). These lower costs will most likely
enable the project to achieve a reasonable economic return on investment of about 15%.

These results are robust with respect to key assumptions. For the rate of return to be 12%
or below, off-farm support costs would have to increase by 70%, or PV systems would
have to be higher than 42%, or on-farm investment costs would need to be higher by
about 19%, or product prices would have to be lower by 123%, or on-farm costs would
need to be higher by 33%, or system breakdowns after the fourth year would have to be
very rapid so as to reach and remain at 75.5% beginning in year 10 of the project.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating


Rating: Satisfactory

As discussed in previous sections, the project was relevant, well-designed, achieved its
global environmental objectives and was implemented effectively and efficiently.
Overall economic impact on beneficiaries is likely to be lower than anticipated, but is
nevertheless expected to be positive and significant. The overall outcome rating is
therefore considered to be satisfactory.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


The eligibility criteria of the Alianza program were not differentiated by income or
gender. Also the primary objective of the REAP project was to reduce carbon emissions
rather than to achieve overtly social aims. Nevertheless, significant reductions in poverty
were ensured as the criteria for beneficiaries defined in project documents (no electricity,
at least 1 km away from the grid etc.) ensured that most of the beneficiaries were small
farmers and classified as being below the poverty line. Such social benefits go beyond
simply improving productivity to also improving living conditions through providing
electricity for lighting and clean water for sanitation and other domestic uses.

Data on income of beneficiaries was not collected by FIRCO and although the data that
is available is too fragmented and sparse to provide quantitative data regarding the
income and social status of beneficiaries (see details in Annex 14), it nevertheless
demonstrates that:
- a significant number of the beneficiaries of the demonstration component are classified
as falling below the poverty line;



                                            - 22 -

- the majority of demonstration beneficiaries would have found it difficult to gain access
to commercial credit that would be necessary in order to overcome the initial high-cost
limitation of the renewable energy technology; and
- although there is no evidence of gender targeting, women would have benefited in
many cases (e.g. from reduced work gathering water for the animals, and in some cases
from lighting made possible in connection with the project).

Indeed, the project is also considered to have had a positive impact on gender - although
again quantitative data is not available. In particular, many of the 65 refrigerators
supported by the project probably had a greater beneficial impact on women than on
men.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


The project helped develop the capacity of Mexico's agriculture and rural development
agencies (SAGARPA and FIRCO) to carry out work relating to promoting the use of
renewable energy in agriculture. In particular it helped develop the capacity of human
resources within these agencies, and beyond to industry, academia and beneficiaries, to
understand and share knowledge on viable applications of renewable energy in Mexico.
The project was instrumental in leveraging financing for renewable energy investments
through the country's principal rural development programs (e.g. Alianza Contigo,
Reconversión Productiva).

The Institutional Strengthening component provided for:
- courses to train in-house trainers (4 courses - 39 trainees) who were subsequently used
to conduct shorter courses, and specialized courses (8 courses ­ 221 staff-trainees);
- courses to expose Agricultural sector staff, extension agents and other stakeholders
(e.g. farmer leaders) to elements of PV Water Pumping for agriculture (129 courses -
4,593 trainees) and Wind Energy applications (2 courses - 105 trainees);
- national meetings with vendors to engage them in the project and recruit their
assistance in developing suitable specifications and certification procedures (6 meetings
­ 269 participants); and
- national 2-3 day workshops (10 ­ 447 participants) and regional workshops (7 ­ 221
participants), used to launch the project, develop teamwork, exchange experiences and
introduce and discuss procedural and technical and administrative methodologies used by
the project.

Many courses required the payment of fees by participants to ensure commitment in the
learning process. In all, about US$ 60,000 were recovered. These provided funding for
additional training.

Today FIRCO has 39 staff fully trained in renewable energy distributed throughout the
country. It is also fully engaged in renewable energy activities, now incorporated within
its agribusiness and micro-watershed programs.


                                              - 23 -

An estimated 52% of all course trainees were technical staff working in rural
development in various agencies, which now work offering techncal assistance to
farmers. About 18% of participants were mid to top-level decision-making staff in
various rural development programs (Alianza Contigo, Reconversión Productiva),
another 15% were farmer leaders and the remaining were students, professors and
researchers from the country's universities.

A specialized 4-week 6-module post-baccalaureat "diplomado" course has been
developed in partnership with the Energy Research Center (CIE) of UNAM
(http://xml.cie.unam.mx/xml). The course is aimed at university engineering and natural
resources management students, as well as technicians interested in renewable energy
applications in agriculture. It covers appraisal, design and installation of independent
low-power PV systems for agricultural and rural development. It has been tested twice
during implementation. It is intended to be conducted largely as a distance-learning
course through the internet, thus keeping future costs relatively low.

The national meetings with vendors (mentioned above) engaged them in the
establishment of specifications for renewable energy equipment and services, and the
demonstrations (mentioned above) provided an opportunity for these vendors to build up
their expertise and competitiveness in renewable energy.

Two high-visibility events organized by FIRCO helped participants strengthen networks
and establish new links, and gave government officials an opportunity to discuss
renewable energy options within a broad national strategic context. These events were:
- the World Renewable Congress (2004) with 2,000 participants; and
- the "International Colloquium on Renewable Energy for Rural Development: A Vision
for the Future", 25-26 May 2006, with 500 participants.

The building of human capital achieved through these was supported by other project
activities, in particular: the materials developed under the Promotion component;
demonstration projects that enabled the practical observation of renewable energy in a
practical setting; and technical assistance that facilitated execution and ensured that the
renewable energy demonstrations had a significant impact on farm productivity. The
market-development studies provided a serious assessment of what is possible and at the
same time helped to identify and test other technology options. Funding provided under
the specifications and certification component made discussions with vendors
meaningful and practical, and helped enhance quality of service and thus increase
consumer confidence. Furthermore, the specifications covered a broad range of uses of
PV applications for broader rural development, not just agriculture.

FIRCO has also developed important institutional alliances that will help design and
implement future renewable energy programs. These include agreements with: ANES to
impart training; CIE-UNAM to develop the diplomado, help conduct training and help
develop high quality technical guides; and AMPER and ANCE to assist with the
certification of suppliers.


                                             - 24 -

FIRCO and its staff have become known as a point of reference for renewable energy in
Mexico, particularly, with respect to agriculture. One observer4 noted: "Whereas in the
past agriculture advisors might tell a farmer to disregard or discard renewable energy,
mainly as a result of his or her own ignorance, this is hardly the case today. After the
project and because of the GEF project, most agriculture specialists know the basic
features, possibilities and viability of PV systems for agriculture, and if they need
additional information they know where to find it".


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


No significant unintended outcomes or impacts were noted.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The second market study (ANES 2006) and the final evaluation report (FIRCO 2006)
present the findings of several very important surveys covering: REAP beneficiaries;
Non-REAP farmers; Equipment Suppliers; Technical Advisors; and FIRCO staff.

The surveys are extensive and details are given in annex 12. The surveys also provide
considerable material that will be very useful for any follow-up phase.

9. Assessment of Risk to Global Environment Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The table below summarizes the principal risks that could adversely affect the
achievement of the project's development outputs.

The single most important risk to the Global Development Outcome is the possibility that
a new government might not provide the continued support that is required. The
technical and managerial expertise that FIRCO has developed, the experience and
knowledge that staff and technical advisors have acquired and the expertise that
businesses have acquired have combined to promote significant infrastructure and
institutional capacity within the country. This will mitigate the risk that a change in
government might bring about a reduced commitment to renewable energy.

However, because systems have high initial investment costs and most farmers have a
limited planning horizon, the market alone will probably not provide sufficient stimulus
for wide-scale future replications. Indeed, the single most important message given by
both market studies undertaken by the project is that future investments in PV systems


4Ing. Simón Ortiz Gurrola, Operations Manager of Tecnología Solar y Energía Renovable de
B.C.S., Tecnosol, Baja California Sur and former FIRCO staff member.




                                             - 25 -

will require continued government support in the form of financial subsidies. Continued
GEF support could provide the necessary encouragement to ensure the new
government's commitment to renewable energy.

 Risk factor                           Rating          Observations

                                                       This risk is external to this particular operation. It is a
                                                       significant risk because: i. there has recently been a change
 Government discontinues subsidy                       in government; and ii. future investments in PV systems will
 support to investments in                             require continued subsidized funding.
 renewable energy applications for          S          The GEF could help reduce this risk through continuing
 production purposes in agriculture.                   support through a follow-up project that includes financial
                                                       subsidies (not necessarily GEF financed) for replications
                                                       through Alianza or a similar program.



 Rate of breakdown of systems and                      This risk is real but the rate of breakdown would need to be

 their repair is higher than                L          high for the project to fail to deliver the expected

 anticipated.                                          development outcome. This is unlikely given the expansion
                                                       in service providers encouraged by the project.

 Projected increases in productivity
 on farm fail to materialize (e.g.                     This risk is external to the operation. There is little that can

 reduction in output prices,                M          be done to mitigate the risk. It is nevertheless important to

 increases in farm costs, poor farm                    monitor the productive evolution of farms and to profit from

 management).                                          the extensive information that has been collected by FIRCO.


 Rating scale: L: Low or negligible; M: Moderate; S: Significant; H: High


10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


Rating: Satisfactory


The REAP project was designed using the latest knowledge about how to achieve its
twin objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the agriculture sector
and promoting the use of renewable energy for productive purposes in agriculture. As
explained above, the project complied with all safeguards issues during preparation
and its design was based on considerable technical knowledge of the project team, and
identified need by the client and significant background work in the area. Subsequent
implementation and close monitoring and evaluation revealed that these preparations had
been meticulous and that the design had been appropriate for addressing these barriers
and issues and promoting renewable energy and its productive uses. For these reasons,
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is considered to have been satisfactory.


(b) Quality of Supervision


Rating: Satisfactory



                                                      - 26 -

A strong relationship with the implementing agency (FIRCO - The Trust Fund for Shared
Risk within Mexico's Ministry of Agriculture) was developed during project preparation
and the frequent early supervision missions involved multiple field trips and discussions
with this agency. This supervision, combined with the operation of the monitoring and
evaluation systems set up during preparation, was thus able to make the small-scale
adjustments necessary to ensure continued optimal operation of the project. For instance,
as originally designed, the Technical Assistance (TA) provided by the project focused
mainly on assisting farmers to install renewable energy systems and would have been
insufficient to achieve the project's development objectives. As a result a new dimension
of TA was developed to not only assist farmers to install systems, but also to help them
develop productive uses to take advantage of these systems.

In the case of water pumping systems, it was realized that supply of these could have a
much greater developmental impact if farmers were simultaneously helped to expand and
develop potential uses that arise following introduction of water pumping such as being
helped to diversify cultivation and to market the increased output. This would both
improve the development success of each individual installation and also stimulate
sustained and widespread further demand, thus improving sustainability and replication
of activities.

The monitoring and evaluation procedures then enabled further testing and modification
over the following months to ensure that the optimal TA was provided. For instance, in
the case of water pumping, some farmers found that the increased availability of water
enabled them to undertake dramatic changes such as beginning livestock farming in
addition to cultivation. This required further TA to ensure optimal returns to these new
activities through marketing and processing. Following this, improvements to the TA
were made, both by ensuring that the TA provided would meet these needs and ensuring
that other project activities complemented this such as in the development of further uses
of renewable energy including providing biogas and thermal heating of water for use in
slaughter houses.

Since being developed and optimized, close supervision then enabled further integration
of this TA throughout the project to complement other components such as pilot projects,
education, market studies and dissemination. Recently, it has also been possible to
partially outsource TA activities to an external agency ANES (The National Association
for Solar Energy) which also carries out dissemination activities. This enables the TA to:
i) be integrated with ANES's broader activities which occur throughout Mexico; ii)
access synergies through being carried out alongside the demonstration activities that
ANES undertook for the project's dissemination component; and iii) continue after the
project closes as ANES is able to make a modest charge and recover some of the costs of
its activities which increases its sustainability.

The project's monitoring work is also being continued by FIRCO, and is feeding into the
work being done to develop further activities.




                                            - 27 -

Through this work, the project has developed new understanding of how to conduct such
renewable energy projects and is included as the key case study in the World Bank's
Renewable Energy Toolkit (http://retoolkit.worldbank.org/) regarding the use of
renewable energy in productive processes. For its outstanding supervision, the project
was also shortlisted for a World Bank Golden Plough Award in 2006.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance


Rating: Satisfactory


Both during preparation and implementation the project has been diligently and
conscientiously supervised. It has been successful with regard to its key objectives and
indicators. One aspect that is particularly being used as a model for other similar projects
is the REAP project's concentration on stimulating demand by promoting the productive
activities that arise from actually using renewable energy and supporting effective
technical assistance to continue to promote such productive activities. The project also
ensured it would be sustainable through developing stakeholder buy-in to pilot projects
by requiring at least 50% cofinancing by beneficiaries, certification of providers to
ensure quality of systems, education of potential providers through providing a distance-
learning course and working towards developing a system of micro-credit.

Replicability was also a key part of project planning and of the outcome indicators used
to measure effectiveness. This is particularly highlighted by the demonstration
component that is aimed at enabling and encouraging replication throughout Mexico.

For these, and the above, reasons the overall Bank performance is considered to have
been satisfactory.


10.2 Borrower


(a) Government Performance


Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the government was excellent and at all times the project benefited
from strong government support for promoting rural energy supplies. At times, however,
internal disruptions occurred, such as the change of government in 2001 and these caused
some temporary crises and a reduction in technical staff in the implementing agency.
However, these challenges were always resolved and government performance overall
was considered to be satisfactory.

In particular, NAFIN's diligence in financial and administrative aspects throughout the
project was instrumental in enabling the project to function effectively in the complicated
financial structures that Mexico has regarding receiving external funding. The exemplary
manner in which fiduciary activities were carried out is demonstrated by the report of the


                                            - 28 -

independent procurement review (IPR) conducted by the Bank in 2006 in the context of
its regular ex-post procurement reviews. This review can be found in project files.

The IPR was made with the support of an accountant and was part of the regular IPR
program for Mexico, as approved by the CMU through the sector leaders upon
recommendation of the procurement team. The project was recommended for IPR by the
procurement team for several reasons including: the need to include a trust fund in the
IPR program; the volume of disbursement; the need to replace an ex post procurement
supervision in the project; and the need to ascertain information received in a field
inspection to a project using the related technology that there was excessive direct
contracting from a source. The IPR did not show any of the latter concern. On the
contrary, the IPR showed overall good procurement performance.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency           Performance

                 The work of the implementing agency, FIRCO and key staff was
                 exemplary. At times, however, there were some temporary crises such as
                 during the reduction in technical staff following the change of
                 government in 2001 that caused implementation to focus on process
                 rather than results. However, these challenges were resolved and
                 implementation during the final years of the project is considered to
                 have been highly satisfactory.
SAGARPA

                 Implementation also benefited from FIRCO's highly decentralized nature
                 which has 28 state offices distributed throughout Mexico. Each of these
                 had a specialist working on this project and this enabled both
                 comprehensive coverage, tailored activities in each region and assured
                 sustainability through institutionalizing activities carried out under the
                 project.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance


Rating: Satisfactory


For the reasons given above, the overall performance of the borrower is considered to
have been satisfactory.




                                            - 29 -

11. Lessons Learned

The project generated a considerable set of lessons that will be important for preparing
and carrying out Renewable Energy and Rural Development programs and government
policies in the future. The lessons will also be particularly useful for the design and
implementation of future Bank projects. Particular lessons learned include:

- Implementing the project through FIRCO within the department of agriculture
rather than the department of energy. In order to ensure the optimal impact of
interventions, it was essential that the principal project implementing agency was related
to the agriculture sector in order that it could promote productive uses of the energy. This
is because provision of renewable energy appears to be mainly demand and not supply
driven. It is considered that in other cases this will also be true and thus the implementing
agency has to be related to the sector that will benefit from the renewable energy. In
other projects this might be health or urban planning.

Implementing the project through FIRCO also enabled the project to be linked
effectively with Mexico's existing government program offering financial support to
farmers (Alianza). Linking the project with Alianza both enabled complementary funding
to be easily provided and facilitated the selection procedure and methods for reaching
beneficiaries.

- Taking into account future livelihood changes. In order to ensure the optimal impact
of interventions, it became clear during implementation that it was essential to consider
the livelihood consequences that will occur through provision of renewable energy and to
integrate this into all components, including through investing in improving productive
processes. This is particularly true for relatively complex technologies like water
pumping for agriculture that have far-reaching consequences on livelihoods.

- Dissemination. It is important to ensure that dissemination is considered carefully in
project design, is integrated in all components and project activities and that
dissemination activities increase towards the end of the project as information becomes
available.

- Technical assistance.
(i) Technical Assistance must focus on demonstrating the outcomes and benefits of
using renewable energy technology, not simply on showing how to use it.
(ii) A wholesale approach to technical assistance, possibly achieved through contracting
an agency, can increase efficiency and also may improve outreach to further potential
users.
(iii) Integration of components is essential in order that technical assistants can use the
knowledge gained through other project activities.

- Implementation of subprojects. Subprojects must be supported by cofinancing from
beneficiaries. Such cofinancing could also be used to increase efficiency of procurement.




                                             - 30 -

- Replication. Projects must plan how to keep track of replication systems installed and
take great care if trying to implement a vendor financing mechanism.

- Financing scheme. For renewable energy investments to have a high impact and broad
replication, an effective financing scheme is very important and this will most likely
have to involve subsidized financing.

- Indicators. In future similar projects, it might be suitable to explicitly monitor types of
beneficiaries and changes in income alongside other indicators.

- Supervision.
(i) Close monitoring and tracking of Technical Assistance and its results through
innovative use of the internet and GIS can help greatly to evaluate the success of
activities and to modify and optimize them.
(ii) A close relationship developed with the client (itself helped through continuity of a
project's Task Team Leader during preparation and implementation) was instrumental in
helping both to identify and to develop improvements during project implementation.
(iii) Flexibility in project design and implementation can help to make subsequent
modifications and fully integrate these with other parts of the project to improve
efficiency.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


No major issues were raised by the borrower and Annex 10 contains a copy of the
borrower's response to the draft of this report.

Following receipt of the borrower's letter (see Annex 10) a mission has been scheduled
for February 2007 to discuss the main findings of this report.


(b) Cofinanciers


No cofinanciers apart from the borrower have been involved in the project.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             - 31 -

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Global Environment Objectives

The project's global objectives were:

1. To promote the use of renewable energy for productive purposes in Mexico's
agriculture sector by removing barriers and reducing implementation costs; and

2. To reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the agriculture sector.

Project development objectives were:

1. To provide unelectrified farmers with reliable electricity supply for productive
purposes in a least-cost and sustainable manner using renewable energy technologies;

2. To increase the productivity and income of unelectrified farmers by supporting the
adoption of productive investments and improved farming practices; and

3. To improve FIRCO's ability to catalyze the penetration of renewable energy
technologies in the agriculture sector.

Key Impact Indicators were:

1. National sales of RE systems for productive agricultural aplications;

2. Change in average price of RE systems;

3. Carbon emissions avoided by project-supported RE systems; and

4. Change in average net income of participating farmers.

The project document did not assign a specific indicator to measuring FIRCO's ability to
catalyze the penetration of renewable energy technologies in the agriculture sector.
However, the indicators of "percentage of direct beneficiaries surveyed who learned of
the equipment through FIRCO's promotional activities" (86%), "number of replica
renewable energy systems installed" (847 documented replicas) and "total number of
technicians and extensionists trained in renewable energy technologies" (3,022 or 121%
of the original goal of 2,500) give a good measure of how the project achieved this
objective.

Revised Global Environment Objectives

There were no revisions to the Global Environmental Objective nor to the key indicators.




                                           - 32 -

(a) GEO Indicator(s)



                                                                       Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator     Baseline        Original Target          Formally

                 Value      Values (from approval Revised Target          at Completion or
                                  documents)              Values            Target Years
Indicator 1 : National sales of RE systems for productive agricultural applications
Value
(quantitative
or            0%            50-80% increase                           Over 700%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2005                                   06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Achievement over 875% See calculation and explanation in section 8.2
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Reduction in average price of RE systems
Value
(quantitative
or            0%            20%                                       24-25%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                   06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Achievement 120-125%. This target was surpassed despite a sharp rise in local

achievement)  and global prices of PV cells. See calculation in Annex 13.

Indicator 3 : Tonnes of Carbon emissions avoided yearly by project-supported RE systems by
              the end of the project
Value
(quantitative 0             30,000 tonnes / year                      36,292 tonnes / year (see
or                                                                    calculation in Annex 13)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                   06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Achievement 121%. This is a conservative estimate as it excludes undocumented

achievement)  replicas and further RE technology such as the 65 refrigerators installed.

Indicator 4 : Change in average net income of participating farmers
Value
(quantitative
or            0             No target was assigned                    25%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000                                              06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %      No target was assigned. However, the increase was 25% (see calculations in

achievement)  Annex 5, Table 5.6)




                                             - 33 -

Indicator 5 : Percentage of direct beneficiaries surveyed who learned of the equipment through
              FIRCO's promotional activities
Value
(quantitative
or            0             No target was assigned                      86%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000                                                06/29/2006
Comments      This, along with other indicators was intended to measure FIRCO's ability to
(incl. %      catalyze the penetration of RE technology. No target was assigned. However,
achievement) 86% clearly demonstrates the efficacy of FIRCO's dissemination activities.
Indicator 6 : Replica water pumping systems installed
Value
(quantitative
or            0             No target was assigned                      847

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000                                                06/29/2006
Comments      Although no official target was defined, the goal for the total number of systems
(incl. %      installed due to the project was 1230. This was clearly surpassed by 1,545 being
achievement) installed directly and a further 847 documented replicas.




(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)



                                Original Target         Formally        Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator     Baseline
                  Value          Values (from        Revised Target at Completion or Target
                             approval documents)          Values                 Years
Indicator 1 : Technician courses held
Value
(quantitative
or            0             79                                         131

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                    06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Achievement 166%. Training, dissemination and technical assistance were give

achievement)  greater prominence than originally planned.

Indicator 2 : Videos produced
Value
(quantitative                                                          2 videocassettes (15 min

or            0             8                                          duration) 6 video TV

Qualitative)                                                           series

Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2005                                    06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Achievement 100%. Videos were used as part of the expanded disseminataion

achievement)  activities.



                                             - 34 -

Indicator 3 : Demonstration days held
Value
(quantitative                                                           2891 (56,057
or            0              1000                                       participants)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                     06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Achievement 289%. Demonstration activities were expanded in response to

achievement)  realizing its importance to achieving the project's objectives.

Indicator 4 : Farmer workshops held
Value
(quantitative
or            0              800                                        798 (18,834 participants)

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                     06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Achievement 100%
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Market assessments completed
Value
(quantitative
or            0              2                                          2

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                     06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Achievement 100%
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Technical studies completed
Value
(quantitative
or            0              5                                          4

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                     06/29/2006
Comments      Achievement 80%. Despite not completing the target number of studies, this
(incl. %      component is considered to have been fully successful, producing important
achievement) results (see table 4-3).
Indicator 7 : Specifications issued
Value
(quantitative
or            0              3                                          1

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                     06/29/2006
Comments      Achievement 33%. Given the comprehensiveness of the original specifications
(incl. %      and also the lack of interest in developing wind-powered pumping systems and
achievement) milk-cooling tanks, one set of specifications was adequate.



                                               - 35 -

Indicator 8 : PV pumps installed and operating correctly
Value
(quantitative                                                           1545 (of which 1439 are
or             0             1050                                       still working correctly)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                     06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement 147%
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Wind pumps installed and operating correctly
Value
(quantitative
or             0             55                                         4

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2005                                     06/29/2006
Comments       Achievement 8%. Due to seasonality of wind, greater abundance of year round
(incl. %       sunlight, and easier installation and maintenance of PV systems, the demand for
achievement) wind pumping systems was limited.
Indicator 10 : PV refrigerated tanks installed and operating correctly.
Value
(quantitative
or             0             24                                         6

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                     06/29/2006

Comments       25%. There was very little demand among farmers for cooling tanks. This is

(incl. %       mainly due to the fact that milk cooling needs to function on a 24 hour basis for

achievement)   which batteries would be required and the investment costs for such technology
               are unfeasibly high.
Indicator 11 : Other RE systems installed and operating correctly
Value
(quantitative
or             0             0                                          88

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                     06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Due to the lack of interest in Wind pumps and refrigeration tanks a number of

achievement)   other systems were developed, as explained in the main text.

Indicator 12 : Total RE systems installed and operating correctly
Value
(quantitative
or             0             1230                                       1670

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                     06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement 136%
achievement)




                                               - 36 -

Indicator 13 : Extensionists trained by state
Value
(quantitative
or             0             111                                      81

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                   06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement 73%. Although Technical Assistance was expanded during

achievement)   implementation, only 81 extensionists were ultimately required.

Indicator 14 : Total technicians and extensionists trained by state
Value
(quantitative
or             0             2500                                     3022

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                   06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement 121%
achievement)
Indicator 15 : Pamphlets/brochures distributed
Value
(quantitative
or             0             54000                                    281000

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                   06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement 520%. Dissemination was very important for achieving project

achievement)   objectives.

Indicator 16 : Demonstration day participants
Value
(quantitative
or             0

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000                             06/30/2000       06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 17 : Vendors trained in vendor financing
Value
(quantitative
or             0             12                                       2

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                   06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement 17%. The challenges and responses to implementing the vendor

achievement)   financing component are explained in the main text.




                                             - 37 -

Indicator 18 : RE systems purchased with vendor financing
Value
(quantitative
or             0           403                                     29

Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2000 06/30/2000                                06/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement 7%. The challenges and responses to implementing the vendor

achievement)   financing component are explained in the main text.




                                           - 38 -

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




                                 - 39 -

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


          Components            Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of
                                    (USD M)              (USD M)            Appraisal
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING                                 1.80                   1.65          91.67

PROMOTION                                     1.60                   1.48          92.50
MARKET DEVELOPMENT                            0.30                   1.00         333.33
SPECIFICATIONS AND
CERTIFICATION                                 0.70                   0.05           7.14

DEMONSTRATION                               18.70                  15.83           84.65
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                          4.90                   1.37          27.96
VENDOR FINANCING                              2.30                   0.21           9.13
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                            1.00                   0.14          14.00
             Total Baseline Cost            31.30                  21.73
Physical Contingencies                        0.00
Price Contingencies                           0.00
             Total Project Costs            31.30
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                   0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                   0.00           0.00
      Total Financing Required              31.30                  21.73




(b) Financing


                                           Appraisal
     Source of Funds         Type of                      Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                           Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                              M)         Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

  Borrower                 Central
                         Government               22.40              12.83         57.28

  GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT                                        8.90                8.90       100.00
FACILITY




                                        - 40 -

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            - 41 -

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Table 4.1. Institutional Strengthening
Objective
To develop the human capital in
institutions that participate in the Project,
particularly the staff of SAGARPA and                             No. of
FIRCO.                                          No. of
                                               courses Duration Trainees/
                                                                Participants
Workshops also served as a critical
management tool for team building and
monitoring progress.
Training courses in        Courses for           4     3 weeks       39
renewable energy           instructors
Courses designed to        PV Water             129     3 days     4593
train FIRCO                Pumping courses
headquarters and           Wind Energy           2      4 days      105
regional staff,            courses
SAGARPA staff and          National              6     1-2 days     269
other institutional        meetings with
stakeholders including     vendors
vendors and,               Courses imparted      8      varied      221
occasionally, also         abroad
farmer leaders.
Workshops                  National              10    2-3 days     447
Used to launch the         Workshops
project, develop
teamwork, exchange         Regional              7     2-3 days     221
experiences and            Workshops
introduce and discuss
procedural and
technical and
administrative
methodologies used by
the project, and review
progress along State
Energy Plans.




                                         - 42 -

Table 4.2. Promotion
Objectives
-Disseminate the opportunities of using PV and Wind Systems
-Inform the general public and prospective beneficiaries and staff of the
requirements for participating in the project.
- Show advantages of using renewable energy technology in agriculture.
- Impart basic training to farmers.
- Link technical staff with potential users
- Promote the use of renewable energy.
Dissemination Material Produced                                         No.
Printed materials
Pamphlets (2 - 3 sheets each)                                        281,000
Posters                                                               27,200
Books and Technical Guides                                            30,690
Field Notebook                                                         1,000
Technical guides                                                      11,590
Technical Guides (Wind)                                                 100
Market Study                                                            100
Sample Successful REAP Projects                                        2,100
Water Pumping PV Technology                                            3,800
Renewable Energy Applications for Agriculture                          6,000
Solar Powered Heaters                                                  2,000
Bioclimatic bases                                                      2,000
Batteries: technology and use in PV systems                            2,000
Technical Pamphlets for Demonstration Days 1 through 5                83,100
Other media
Videocassettes (2 each 15 min. duration)                               1,500
TV Series (6 videos in 3 CD set)                                       3,750
Presentations for Water Pumping course                                 3,750
Promotion                                 Number of
                                            Events            Participants

Demonstration days                           2,891                56,057
Producer Workshops                             798                18,834
Fairs and Exhibits                             61
Total                                        3,750               74,891




                                         - 43 -

Table 4.3. Market Development
Objective:
Reduce uncertainty due to initial lack of knowledge regarding the present
situation and the potential for expanding the market of renewable energy in
agriculture in the country; and promote the development of this market.
                                   Market Studies
First Market Study
The first market study:
i. gives an overview of renewable energy developments world wide and in Mexico;
ii. characterizes and quantifies the potential demand for renewable energy use in
various applications for agriculture in Mexico;
iii. Describes the present industry supplying renewable energy equipment and
services, including their technological capacity, location, and service scope within
Mexico, and
iv. analyzes the potential for further development of the industry.
Second Market Study
The second market study:
i. analyzes the impact of the REAP project on the growth, development and
expansion of the renewable energy market for agriculture in Mexico.
ii. examine and identify the impact that REAP has had on the development of
renewable energy market for agriculture, including effects on marketing channels,
costs, and spatial distribution.
iii. propose measures to further support market development in Mexico.
Technology Development
These research efforts sponsored the design, testing and validation of new
equipment and applications of renewable energy in productive enterprises. In the
case of refrigerators, a more mature technology, 65 demonstration units were
installed.
                                    Prototypes       Demos           Results of
                                    developed       installed    research efforts
                                      & tested
PV milk cooling tanks                     6                         Questionable
                                                                 economic viability
PV Refrigerators to preserve             16             65      Very promising
agricultural and fisheries                                      technology, ready
products                                                        for dissemination
PV water heaters for productive          15                           Promising
purposes                                                             technology
Thermal energy from biogas                9                           Promising
using organic by products of                                         technology
agriculture




                                        - 44 -

Table 4.4. Demonstration
Objectives:
Show farmers and technicians that significant productivity increases are
readily achievable using renewable energy.
Establish demonstration projects throughout the country to begin to foster a
culture of familiarty, basic knowledge and acceptance of the technology in
appropriate conditions.
Demonstration systems installed
PV water pumping demo systems for agriculture (mainly                 1,545
livestock) installed
Wind water pumping demo systems for ag (mainly livestock)                4
installed

Further information on Watts installed and cost per Kilowatt Hour can be found in
Annex 13.


Table 4.5. Technical Assistance
 Objectives:
 The principal objective was to support demonstration systems installed with
 technical advice to help make sure that beneficiary farmers know how to use the
 systems and, more importantly, to ensure that the systems have a significant
 impact on farm productivity and income.

 In practice, technical advisors also helped implement the project, by assisting
 farmers to process their applications, obtain funding for productive investments
 from other government programs, and by conducting demonstration days and
 participating in other technology promotion activities.
 Technical advisors used (at project's peak level of activity)                48
 Number of demonstration farmers assisted.                                  1,302
 Number of visits to farmers by technical advisors.                         14,546


Table 4.6. Specifications and Certification
 Objective:
 This component sought to reduce any uncertainty from buyers that could arise
 from faulty equipment or from undue variations in the quality of equipment and
 service provided by vendors. It sought to set out clear requirements that should
 be met by renewable energy equipment vendors as they design, install, test and
 provide maintenance service to customers.
 Technical Specifications
 PV water pumping (coverage of specifications)
 - Warranties
 - Parts and components (PV modules, support and structure, electricity inverter
 and controller, pump and motor, cabling, grounding, surge protection, etc.)
 - Installation of system (cabling and electrical connections, hydraulic connections,
 PV arrangements, inverter, controller)
 - Acceptance tests
 - Customer training
 - After sales services
 - Technical documentation (technical offer, economic offer, operation and
 maintenance manual, electrical and mechanical diagram, results of acceptance
 tests)



                                         - 45 -

 Water Pumping with Wind Energy
 - A first version of specifications for this technology was developed. It will be
 revised and enhanced as the technology becomes more widely used.
 Certification
 - Enterprises interested in being certified in order to demonstrate their capability,
 efficiency and reliability as PV equipment suppliers were identified.
 - A General Procedure was established for the Certification of Suppliers of PV
 Systems for Rural Development (covers not just agriculture but, more broadly,
 rural development applications)
 - Participation in the certification processes was made a requirement for
 participating as a supplier of equipment in demonstration projects.
 - An Agreement has been signed under project auspices whereby ANCE and
 AMPER agree to carry out a pilot test for the Certification of Suppliers.
 - As at end September 2006, 28 equipment suppliers have been certified.



Table 4.7. Vendor Financing
 Objective:
 Testing of a pilot vendor financing scheme to cover the amouont of funding that is
 not provided by ALIANZA program in non-demonstration states.
 Systems funded
 Projects funded using Baja California Sur vendor financing                       29
 scheme:
 Note: Baja California Sur, Sonora, Quintana Roo and Chihuahua did not benefit
         from demonstrations, because the USAID-USDOE project had already
         established demonstration projects there.



Table 4.8. Output Targets Specified at Appraisal and Realized During
Implementation

A table on the achievement of output targets specified at appraisal is available in Annex
13.3.




                                          - 46 -

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

The target population was further defined during project implementation. Out of the estimated
600,000 farms with no electricity (operationally, over 1 km away from the grid), many of these did
not have access to suitable sources of water while others had water requirements exceeding the
limits imposed by PV technology (i.e. of more than 2 liters per second). The target population was
accordingly narrowed to estimated 80,000-100,000 predominantly livestock farms.

Most of the demonstration systems were installed in the Arid region (see Tables 5.1 and 5.3). To a
large extent this follows the livestock population given the dominant focus on water pumping for
livestock; but it is also directly linked to the greater demand for renewable energy in arid States.

Table 5.1. Distribution of Bovine Cattle and of REAP Demonstrations by Region

             Region             Bovine cattle population         Number of demonstrations
                                     No.         % of Total            No.        % of Total


         Arid                    7,075,170         24.3%               712         46.1%


         Temperate               8,755,975         30.1%               360         23.3%


         Tropical                13,255,855        45.6%               473         30.6%


                    Total        29,087,000       100.0%              1,545        100.0%


FIRCO categorized its farm investments into three types of activity: agriculture, mixed farming and
livestock (Table 5.2). The dominant activity was bovine cattle, and this was true even in mixed
farms. Agriculture was included as an investment component in these farms, partly to provide a
small additional source of income, but more importantly, because the criteria for acceptance by
Alianza enabled farmers to avoid having to pay taxes on their investments whenever an agricultural
component was involved.

Table 5.2. Distribution of Systems Installed by Main Farming Activity

                              Agriculture       Livestock & Ag.     Livestock      Total
           Arid                     13                211              488         712
           Temperate                22                244              94          360
           Tropical                  6                187              280         473
           Total                    41                642              862         1545


Survey evidence of impact

The predominant uses of GEF investments for watering livestock is confirmed by the survey of
REAP beneficiaries undertaken in connection with the second market study. Out of 1,313
respondents5, 90% indicated watering livestock as the main purpose of their investment. The second
most important activity was irrigation, but only for 9% of respondents. Water for domestic use was
the main purpose of investment for only 1% of the beneficiaries surveyed.


                                              - 47 -

Table 5.3. Distribution of Bovine Cattle Population by State and Distribution of States and
Demonstrations according to 3 Agro-ecological Regions


                Re-    No. Heads    No. of       Arid (A)       Temperate (T)        Tr (Tropical)

                gion     (2003)     demos      No. of    No.     No. of      No.     No. of     No.
                                               Heads     proy    Heads      proy     Heads     proy
  Aguas-         A      101,703       22      101,703     22       0         0         0          0
  calientes
  Baja           A      231,936       57      231,936     57       0         0         0          0
  California
  Campeche       Tr     613,357       74         0        0        0         0      613,357      74
  Chiapas        Tr     2,494,162     59         0        0        0         0     2,494,162     59
  Coahuila       A      639,479      111      639,479    111       0         0         0          0
  Colima         Tr     181,906       15         0        0        0         0      181,906      15
  Comarca
  Lagunera       A      569,384       99      569,384     99       0         0         0          0

  Durango        A      1,393,263    103     1,393,263   103       0         0         0          0
  Guanajuato     T      855,162       39         0        0     855,162      39        0          0
  Guerrero       T      1,282,144     12         0        0    1,282,144     12        0          0
  Hidalgo        T      570,550       79         0        0     570,550      79        0          0
  Jalisco        T      2,773,934     32         0        0    2,773,934     32        0          0
  México         T      612,076       6          0        0     612,076      6         0          0
  Michoacán      T      1,807,117     32         0        0    1,807,117     32        0          0
  Morelos        T      123,879       67         0        0     123,879      67        0          0
  Nayarit        Tr     705,541       25         0        0        0         0      705,541      25
  Nuevo          A      399,086       42      399,086     42       0         0         0          0
  León
  Oaxaca         Tr     1,695,583     65         0        0        0         0     1,695,583     65
  Puebla         T      659,271       76         0        0     659,271      76        0          0
  Querétaro      A      276,775       20      276,775     20       0         0         0          0
  San Luis       A      907,412       57      907,412     57       0         0         0          0
  Potosí
  Sinaloa        A      1,608,011    101     1,608,011   101       0         0         0          0
  Tabasco        Tr     1,525,175     44         0        0        0         0     1,525,175     44
  Tamaulipas     Tr     1,237,776     42         0        0        0         0     1,237,776     42
  Tlaxcala       T       71,842       17         0        0      71,842      17        0          0
  Veracruz       Tr     4,094,152     92         0        0        0         0     4,094,152     92
  Yucatán        Tr     708,203       57         0        0        0         0      708,203      57
  Zacatecas      A      948,121      100      948,121    100       0         0         0          0
  Totals              29,087,000    1,545    7,075,170   712   8,755,975    360   13,255,855    473


Eighty-eight percent of beneficiaries surveyed stated that the equipment obtained through the
project was useful for their productive activities. Only 2% said that it had not been useful. The
remaining 10% did not answer the question. When further asked why they felt the equipment was
useful, most respondents (67%) said for water distribution; about 17% cited a reduction in cost and
4% mentioned fuel savings.

FIRCO's promotional activities unquestionably influenced farmers regarding solar equipment and
86% of beneficiaries surveyed learned of the equipment through these. The next most important
source of information was the municipality but this was only mentioned by 5% of the respondents.



                                           - 48 -

On-Farm Benefits and Returns

Four farm models were developed to appreciate the likely project impact at the farm and project
levels. Three of these are bovine livestock models. A fourth model includes a small agriculture
component to simulate a typical farm categorized as "mixed". Field data gathered through FIRCO
technical assistance advisors regularly updated notebooks for each project site. These notebooks
were used to identify start-up parameters, as well as the evolution of these projects during the first
two or three years. Data for the earlier investment projects, established in 2002­2003, are now
mature and provide useful information that may used as a basis to project future costs and benefits.

Investment projects chosen by FIRCO staff serve as models of typical projects occurring in these
three regions. Data available on the number of animals by project size and by farm size (Tables 5.4
and 5.5) were used to verify that the chosen models were consitent with typical investment projects
within the region. The basic features of these four models and the financial results obtained are
summarized in Table 5.6. Tables 5.7 through 5.10 present projections of herds, farm income and
costs with and without project. All income and returns are expressed in equivalent of US$ in
constant 2006 terms applying Mexico's consumer price index as deflator and the prevailing rate of
exchange for the first 7 months of the year (US$ 1 = $10.866).

Results are positive, albeit, as shown below, rates of return on on-farm investments appear to be
significantly lower than those anticipated at appraisal.

                                                   Arid
                                                                    Temperate         Tropical
                                         Livestock       Mixed


      Appraisal Models                       44%                        19%             35%


      ICR Models                             18%           20%          17%             26%

No attempt has been made to determine the reasons underlying the differences observed between
appraisal and ICR values. Nevertheless, in general terms, photovoltaic water pumping systems are
profitable relative to systems powered with conventional energy when: i) the investment lifetime of
the project is long (e.g. 15-20 years); ii) relatively low amounts of energy are required (e.g. less
than 1,500 W); and iii) they are intended to serve remote places located far away from the grid. The
last two conditions tend to limit the kind of on-farm investments that can be profitable using PV
systems, to watering for livestock and to other products that can withstand significant distance to
their markets (e.g. sorghum for fodder). Consequently, while PV systems can increase productivity
and incomes, they are generally unlikely to yield very high on-farm returns.




                                             - 49 -

Table 5.4. Average Head of Cattle per Beneficiary in Demonstration Projects under Private
Property Management, by Region
           less         Arid         Temperate           Tropical                   Overall
Greater    than
  than     or =      Ave.    No.     Ave.     No.     Ave.       No.     Weighted      No.       %
             to             proy.            proy.              proy.     Average      proy.
   0        10       6.6      45     6.0      22       5.8        9         6.3         76      11.3
   10       20       15.7     72     14.7     32      15.7       18        15.5        122      18.1
   20       30       24.7     57     26.5     17      24.5       15        25.0         89      13.2
   30       50       40       53     40.2     27      38.5       29        39.6        109      16.2
   50      100       69.4     26     69.6     49      75.8       46        71.9        121      18.0
  100      200      133.4     39    142.6     20      140.3      52        72.6        111      16.5
  greater than      290.1     20    544.0      1      581.0      24        141.0        45       6.7
       200
  All projects       46.5    312     46.9    168      104.5      193       51.5        673     100.0
Note: Only projects managed under private property, with bovine cattle as their main livestock
       activity and for which herd and beneficiary data is available are considered here. These
       represent 43% of all demonstrations.



Table 5.5. Average Head of Cattle per Project in Demonstrations by Region
             less        Arid          Temperate           Tropical                 Overall
  Greater   than
   than      or =    Ave.     No.    Ave.      No.      Ave.       No.   Weighted      No.       %
              to             proy.            proy.              proy.    Average     proy.
    0         10      8.8      5      9.0       2        3.8       5        6.8        12       0.9%
    10        50     28.8     73     31.3      105      32.4      101       31.0       279     20.8%
    50       100     78.0     117    70.1      94       73.9      113       74.3       324     24.1%
   100       200     145.5    249    144.1     68       142.3     130      144.4       447     33.3%
   200       500     280.8    154    308.9     24       299.4      66      288.6       244     18.2%
   500      1000     682.2    12     572.3      6       611.3      8       446.9       26       1.9%
   greater than
       1000         11500      8                0      2646.3      4       8548.8      12      0.9%

   All projects     309.0     618    102.1     299      153.1     427      190.7      1344     100.0

 Note: Only projects with bovine cattle as their main livestock activity and for which herd data is
        available are considered here. These represent 87% of all demonstrations.




                                           - 50 -

Table 5.6. Basic Features and Financial Results of On-Farm Investment Models Examined
            Region                   Arid        Temperate      Tropical        Arid
            Name of Basis              La        El Porvenir       Las           La
            Project                 Laborcita                    Palomas     Laborcita-
                                                                               Mixed
            Project
            Installation Date
            Starting Heads             85             55           99            85
            of Cattle
            Main Livestock           Calves        Steers         Dual       Calves +
            Product                                              purpose         Ag.
            Ag. Product                                                      Sorghum
            Investment (US$
            2006)
             - PV System             11,340         6,189         7,044       11,340
             - On-Farm               14,472         8,361         7,163       14,472
            Livestock
             - On-Farm. Ag.                                                    2,140
            Total                   25,812         14,550        14,208       27,952
            Net farm
            income
             - Without                393            408          3,506          393
            project
             - First 3 years of      2,375          1,560         5,775         2921
            project
            %change                  504.3         285.5          64.7        643%
            IRR                      18%            17%           26%          20%
            NPV (12%) in             7,233         3,281          9,830       10,169
            US$ 2006
            Note: Investment cost data for 2002 and 2003 have been converted
            into current US$ 2006 values using Mexico's consumer price index and
            the present exchange rate ($ 10.866 = US$1).

Tables 5.7 to 5.10 containing detailed data on the case study farms can be found in Annex 13.4.

Economic Returns on Investment

The rates of returns and corresponding cash flows for the three livestock models were used to
project rates of return to the on-farm investments of US$ 15,834,852 in the demonstration projects;
assuming that demonstrations per year in each area type would yield a similar return as the
corresponding model does. Nominal investment values were converted to comparable constant
2006 US$. The difference in return between the mixed and livestock models is small and did not
warrant further consideration.

Project costs supportive of demonstration investments include those related to: technical assistance,
promotion, market development, certification and project management. Without the critical inputs
funded by these components it is doubtful that the on-farm returns on demonstration project
investments could have been achieved. In practice, support costs were significantly lower than
anticipated at appraisal.



                                           - 51 -

Table 5.11. Project Costs Estimated at Appraisal, Implementation Costs Realized and
Demonstration Support Costs


              Component                    PAD*                        Realized

                                         (US$ 000)         All Costs**        Demo Support
                                                                                  Costs
 Institutional Strengthening                    1,565            1,646,724           1,646,724
 Promotion                                      1,795            1,479,938           1,479,938
 Market Development                               675            1,001,190           1,001,190
 Specifications and Certifications                270               52,717              52,717
 Demonstration                                18,470           15,834,852
 Technical Assistance                           4,840            1,365,900           1,365,900
 Vendor Financing                               2,225              205,303
 Project Management                               950              138,923             138,923
 Unallocated Contingencies                        500
 Total                                       31,290           21,725,547           5,685,392
 * Page 31 of PAD.
 ** Page 197 of REAP Final Evaluation Report


From a strictly economic standpoint, solar energy is superior to conventional energy but over a long
life span. PV panels require an initial significant investment that is compensated by benefits
provided that the PV systems remain in operation over a relatively long time horizon (FIRCO-
Sandia 2001, esp. pages 62-66).

Evidence of the likely duration of the PV water pump systems is available from two sources:

        A Survey undertaken by the Second Market Study found 8% of the systems out of service:
        105 out of a total of 1,313 farmers surveyed with systems installed. The causes behind the
        malfunctions were: failure in the pump or panel (59 cases), theft (34 cases) and, to a lesser
        extent, insufficient water (10 cases) plus other minor causes. The average age since
        installation of all REAP systems at the time this survey was undertaken was about 1.7 years.

        A survey of 52 systems installed by the Sandia project showed that 28 were still in operation
        and 21 were out of commission; i.e. a 60% survival rate (40% "non-functioning" rate) after
        6.5 years in operation. (Espericueta et al 2004)

In calculating rates of returns on the project investments, farm net benefit flows have been assumed
to accrue until about the year 2010 (i.e. from 16 to 20 years, depending on the time they were
installed. It has also been assumed that the incidence of non-performance starts with 4% beginning
after the second year of any farm demonstration project, and reaches 8% by the third year in
operation. This non-functioning percentage is assumed to increase slowly (mainly on account of
theft), until it reaches about 50% in year 10 and stabilizes at this level subsequently (i.e. farmers
value their systems and stolen panels occasionally get replaced). This is a rate of non-performance
that is somewhat more positive than that experienced with the 52 Sandia systems surveyed by
Espericueta et al (2004), but is considered reasonable because the present project has made
significant strides in developing service to repair the systems. In any event, this is a parameter that



                                            - 52 -

deserves continuous monitoring in the future.

The economic rate of return of the project thus calculated is projected to be 15%, and the net
present value is a projected US$ 3.0 million. These are conservative estimates. They ignores the
impact on the estimated 800 system replications that came about largely as a result of the project, as
well as the positive effects on the environment from lower carbon emissions. This ICR rate of
return is much lower than that estimated at appraisal, 39.9%.

Sensitivity Analysis

The project's overall profitability results are robust with respect to key assumptions. For the rate of
return to be 12% or below, off-farm support costs would have to increase by 70%, or PV systems
would have to be higher than 42%, or on-farm investment costs would need to be higher by about
19%, or product prices would have to be lower by 123%, or on-farm costs would need to be higher
by 33%. System breakdowns after the fourth year would have to be very rapid so as to reach and
remain at 75.5% beginning in year 10 of the project.

Table 5.12. Switching Values at 12.0%

 Increase in off-farm support cost                                   70%
 Increase in PC System Investment                                    42%
 Increase in On-Farm Investment                                      19%
 Reduction in product prices                                        123%
 Increase in on-farm costs                                           33%
 Faster breakdown of systems after year 4, reaching in year 10:     75.5%




                                            - 53 -

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                 Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
                       Lead Natural
Michael G. Carroll     Resources              LCSAR               Task Team Leader
                       Management Specialist
Supervision/ICR

Greicy C. Amjadi       Senior Program
                       Assistant              SDV                 Team Assistant

                       Lead Natural
Michael G. Carroll     Resources              LCSAR               Task Team Leader
                       Management Specialist
Mauricio Cifuentes     Team Assistant         CGFNB               Team Assistant
Edgardo M. Floto       Consultant             LCSAR               Economic Assessment

Efraim Jimenez         Lead Procurement
                       Specialist             LCSPT               Procurement Supervision

Simon Nicholas         Junior Professional                        Climate Change
Milward                Associate              LCSEN               Specialist

Victor Ordóñez         Senior Financial                           Financial Management
                       Management Specialist  LCSFM               Supervision
Jeannette Ramirez      Operations Officer     LCSAR               Supervision Support


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived            IP         GEO          Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   05/04/2000              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.00
2   05/05/2000              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.00
3   12/07/2000              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.75
4   06/27/2001              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.85
5   12/13/2001              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              0.85
6   06/17/2002              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              1.31
7   09/05/2002              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              1.66
8   12/19/2002              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              2.01
9   06/05/2003              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              2.92
10 06/06/2003               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              2.92
11 12/18/2003               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              3.88
12 06/18/2004               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              4.79
13 12/23/2004               Satisfactory  Satisfactory                              5.83
14 06/08/2005                             Satisfactory                              6.92
15 07/27/2006                             Satisfactory                              8.90




                                          - 54 -

(c) Staff Time and Cost


                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY99                                    15                 76.46
                    FY00                                    25                122.60
                    FY01                                                        0.00
                    FY02                                                        0.00
                    FY03                                                        0.00
                    FY04                                                        0.00
                    FY05                                                        0.00
                    FY06                                                        0.00
                    FY07                                                        0.00
                                    Total:                  40                199.06
Supervision/ICR
                    FY99                                                        0.00
                    FY00                                                        0.00
                    FY01                                      7                36.20
                    FY02                                      5                27.64
                    FY03                                      4                21.31
                    FY04                                      9                43.79
                    FY05                                    11                 55.44
                    FY06                                    12                 60.77
                    FY07                                    12                 62.06
                                    Total:                  60                307.20




                                       - 55 -

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings         Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory       Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory       Implementing
                                           Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory       Performance:      Satisfactory




                                        - 56 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

The second market study (ANES 2006) undertaken by the project and the final
evaluation report (FIRCO 2006) present the findings of several very important surveys
covering: REAP beneficiaries; Non-REAP farmers; Equipment Suppliers; Technical
Advisors; and FIRCO staff.

The surveys are comprehensive and are highly relevant to increasing the current use of
Renewable Energy Technology. They also provide considerable material that will be
very useful for any follow-up activities.




                                         - 57 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

No stakeholder workshop has been held.




                                      - 58 -

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                 - 59 -

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No cofinanciers apart from the borrower have been involved in the project.




                                        - 60 -

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Asociación Nacional de Energía Solar (ANES), "Estudio de Mercado de las Fuentes de Energía
Renovable en el Sector Agropecu ario", May 2006 (and annexes with findings of surveys to
REAP producers, non-REAP producers, equipment suppliers, technical advisors and FIRCO
staff)
Berumen y Asociados, "Estudio de mercado de renovables en el sector agropecuario en México",
México, D.F. 2003
Espericueta, A. D. C., R. E. Foster, L. M. Gómez Rocha, M. P. Ross, C. J. Hanley, V. P. Gupta,
O. Montúfar Avilez, A. R. P aredes Rubio, "Evaluación de 52 Sistemas Fotovoltáicos de Bombeo
de Agua Instalados en México a Través del PERM", 2004 (www.re.sandi a.gov/en/pb/pb-fs.htm)
Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido, "Proyecto de Energía Renovable para la Agricultura:
Evaluación Final del Proyecto", Sept iembre 2006
Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido y Sandia National Laboratories, "Guía para el Desarrollo de
Proyectos de Bombeo de Agua c on Energía Fotovoltáca", 2001
Skoufias, E. "Rural Poverty Alleviation and Household Consumption Smoothing: Evidence from
PROGRESA in Mexico", IFPRI, 200 2.
(www1.worldbank.org/sp/safetynets/PDFfiles/Progressa_Mexico_Skoufias.pdf#search=%22Mex
ico%20rural%20household%20size%22)
World Bank, World Development Report 2007. (www-
wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/IW3P/IB/2006/09/13/000
112742_20060913111024/Rendered/PDF/359990WDR0complete.pdf)




                                             - 61 -

Annex 13. Additional Annexes

Annex 13.1. Calculation of Carbon emissions avoided by the end of the project

Yearly emissions of Carbon avoided by the end of the project.

This calculation uses the following data

 Average volume of water pumped per system per day = 11.37 m3
 Average volume of water pumped per system per year = 4153 m3
 Average volume of gasoline required per m3 of water pumped = 6.2 l
 Mass of Carbon released per liter of gasoline = 0.63 kg


The number of systems directly installed by the project and operating correctly at Project
closure = 1,439.

At least 867 replicas have also been installed of which an estimated:

 867 x 1439 / 1545 = 808

will still be working (assuming a failure rate similar to that for systems installed directly
by the project).

Therefore the estimated total number of systems installed = 2247 systems.

Therefore the estimated volume of water pumped per year = 2247 x 4135 = 9,291,345 m3

Therefore the estimated equivalent volume of gasoline that would have been used =

 6.2 x 9,291,345 = 57,606,339 l.

Therefore the mass of Carbon emissions avoided per year =

 0.63 x 57,606,339 = 36,291,994 kg.


It is therefore estimated that 36,292 tonnes of Carbon emissions were avoided each year
                                                      *

by the end of the project.


* (This is a conservative estimate as it does not take into account the other types of renewable energy
systems that the project installed ­ such as the 65 solar refrigeration systems. Also it uses a conservative
estimate for the number of replica systems installed as a result of the project. Nevertheless this is still
121% of the target figure expressed in the PAD.)




                                                    - 62 -

Annex 13.2. Cost of Installation per Watt and Average Costs per Kilowatt Hour

Table 13.2.1. Costs / Watt of installed generating power

    Year         Total number of Watts for solar water pumping        Average cost per
                    directly installed by the project / Watts            Watt / US$
    2001                             86,715                                 15.46
    2002                            153,316                                 14.26
    2003                            229,927                                 12.70
    2004                            220,092                                 13.16
    2005                            190,924                                 12.33
   Total                            881,010                                 13.25

Costs / Kilowatt Hour for the 1545 systems directly installed by the project

On the assumption that the average life of each system is 15 years and that the average
system runs for 12 hours a day, 250 days per year, this gives an average cost of
US$ 13.25 for 45 Kilowatt Hours or US$ 0.29 per Kilowatt Hour for the 1545 systems
directly installed.

Of this amount, the GEF invested US$ 3,148,624 (26.9%). The producers directly
invested US$ 2,340,163 (20%). With help from Alianza, the producers further invested
US$ 6,220,425 (53.1%) . This equates to a cost of US% 0.08 / KWh for the GEF and
US$ 0.21 / KWh for the producers through direct investments and through investments
helped with funding from Alianza.




                                           - 63 -

Annex 13.3. Data on Output Targets Specified at Appraisal (Referred to in Annex 4)
                                      Table 4-8. Output Targets Specified at Appraisal and Realized During Implementation

   Project Outputs at Appraisal                                             Indicators and Targets Specified at Appraisal             Realized    %
                                                                                         Unit                          At appraisal             Change

 1 Widespread increase in awareness of renewable energy          Increased levels of awareness among 600,000
   systems among 600,000 unelectriried farmers.                  unelectrified farmrers

 2 Demonstration projects installed and operating correctly.     Target (max) no. of demo. projects installed and          1230         1514    23.1%
                                                                 operating correctly.
 3 Installation of water pumping demonstrative modules for       Target (max) no. of PV demonstration projects        1,050          1545
   agriculture (mainly livestock) using PV systems               installed
                                                                             of which not working Dec 2005:                          -106
 4 Installation of water pumping demonstrative modules for       Target (max) no. of wind demonstration projects      55             4
   agriculture (mainly livestock) using wind powered             installed
   systems
 5 Installation of pilot milk cooling systems using PV or hybrid Target (max) no. of PV milk cooling demo.            24             6
   systems.                                                      projects installed
                                                                 Other demonstrations
                                                                        PV Solar Refrigerators                                       65

 6 Technicians, agricultural extensionists and vendors trained   No. of extensionists, technicians and vendors             2,500        4952    98.1%
   in renewable energy systems.                                  trained
                                                                        Trainees from courses for instructors                        39
                                                                        Trainees from courses for Technicians in Solar Energy        4539
                                                                        Trainees from courses for technicians in Wind Energy         105
                                                                        Trainees from courses for entrepreneurs (primarily vendors)  269
                                                                        Trainees from courses imparted abroad (mainly staff)         221

 7 Participating farmers receive technical assistance in the     Farmers receive technical assistance
   operation of the renewable energy systems.

 8 Reduced uncertainty regarding the market for, and             Market assessment                                           1           2      100.0%
   applications of, renewable energy in the agricultural sector. Technology assessments                                    several
                                                                 Dissemination of results of mkt & technology
                                                                 assessments
 9 Improved understanding of prospects for vendor financing      Dissemination of lessons from vendor financing
   of farm-based renewable energy systems.                       program.

10 Introduction of specifications and certification procedures.  Successful introduction of specifications and
                                                                 certification procedures.
Sources: Project Design Summary, Page 21 of PAD: and FIRCO (2006)




                                                     - 64 -

Annex 13.4. Detailed Data on the Case Study Farms Treated in Annex 5




                                    - 65 -

- 66 -

- 67 -

- 68 -

    Annex 13.5. Evolution of Costs of Solar Water Pumping Systems

    FIRCO's database was used to estimate the evolution of the cost of photovoltaic water
    pumping systems over time (Table 13.4.1). Records used refer only to PV demonstration
    systems plus Baja California's systems financed with GEF funds. Replication records
    available were not used. A few projects with missing data on wattage of system were also left
    out, as well as 25 systems from Veracruz with suspect data (probably the result of mistaken
    data input) were also left out. In all a total of 1,490 systems were used in the calculations.

    All size-year categories had sufficient numbers to regard the calculations as reliable (Table
    13.4.2). Also, since there is no significant change in the distribution of systems by size over
    time (Table 13.4.3), system size is not driving the reduction in costs observed over time in
    Table 13.5.1 and depicted in the 2 charts below. Overall, the change in system costs between
    the start of the project in 2001-02 and by the end of project (2004-05) is estimated to be in the
    order of 25%, as an average across systems, or of 24% per total watts generated by all systems
    in the 2-year period.


                  Table 13.5.1. Distribution of Photovoltaic Water Pumping Systems
                            Installed by Size of System and by Project Year
                                     (number of systems considered in calculations)

                  Watts       2001       2002         2003      2004     2005       2001-
                                                                                     2005
               0-150            20         26          43        23        27        139
               150-300          34         69          90        88        65        346
               300-450          34         66          92        83        48        323
               450-600          23         40          59        64        39        225
               600-750          4          19          33        32        25        113
               750-900          14         13          26        30        16         99
               900-1050         7          15          31        21        19         93
               over 1050        21         29          34        37        31        152
                    All        157        277         408        378      270        1490




Table 13.5.2. Evolution of Cost per Watt of Installed Photovoltaic Water Pumping Systems
                                        by Size of System
                                       (US$/Watt)                       %change          Average

       Watts                                                           2001-02 to        cost per
                       2001      2002       2003      2004     2005     2004/05          system
                                                                                         2001-05
       0-150            32        35          33        29      30       -14.5%             32
     150-300            27        24          22        22      24       -10.9%             23
     300-450            19        19          17        16      18       -16.6%             17
     450-600            20        17          14        14      14       -34.4%             15
     600-750            19        15          12        12      13       -31.3%             13
     750-900            18        13          11        11      12       -42.6%             12
    900-1050            15        13          10        10      11       -30.1%             11
    over 1050           14        11          8         7        7       -75.4%              9
Overall averages:
         across systems         22         20         17       16     17         -25.2%
         per generated watt     18         17         15       15     13         -23.8%




                                                  - 69 -

              Table 13.5.3. Distribution of Photovoltaic Water Pumping Systems
                              Installed by Size of System and by Project Year
                                      (number of systems considered in calculations)
              Watts
                                 2001      2002          2003            2004          2005          2001-
                                                                                                      2005
          0-150                   20         26             43             23             27            139
          150-300                 34         69             90             88             65            346
          300-450                 34         66             92             83             48            323
          450-600                 23         40             59             64             39            225
          600-750                 4          19             33             32             25            113
          750-900                 14         13             26             30             16            99
          900-1050                7          15             31             21             19            93
          over 1050               21         29             34             37             31            152
                 All              157       277            408            378            270          1490




Chart 13.5.1. Evolution of costs of installation of PV systems

               Evolution of Average Annual Per Watt Cost of Installated Photovoltaic Systems by Size of System

   50



   45



   40



   35

                       0-150 Watts

   30

                  150-300 Watts

   25

      450-600 Watts
   20
                                                                    340-450
      750-900 Watts

   15
                                                                                     600-750 Watts
        Over 1050 Watts
                                                                                    900-1050 Watts
   10



   5



   0
               2001                  2002                   2003                  2004                   2005




                                                     - 70 -

Chart 13.5.2. Evolution of costs of per Watt of PV systems

                  Evolution of Cost per Watt per System and of Cost per Watt Generated During
                                          Project Implementation Period


            25



                       Average Cost per Watt across all Systems

            20




 tta        15

    Wr                                                          Average Cost per total
                                                                Watts Generated each Year
      pe

        US$ 10




             5




             0
                  2001                 2002                   2003                  2004         2005




                              Table 13.5.4. Number of systems as a percent
                                            of total installed per period

                  Watts        2001            2002           2003         2004          2005  2001-
                                                                                               2005
                0-150           12.7%            9.4%          10.5%         6.1%        10.0%   9.3%
                150-300         21.7%          24.9%           22.1%        23.3%        24.1%  23.2%
                300-450         21.7%          23.8%           22.5%        22.0%        17.8%  21.7%
                450-600         14.6%          14.4%           14.5%        16.9%        14.4%  15.1%
                600-750           2.5%           6.9%           8.1%         8.5%         9.3%   7.6%
                750-900           8.9%           4.7%           6.4%         7.9%         5.9%   6.6%
                900-1050          4.5%           5.4%           7.6%         5.6%         7.0%   6.2%
                over 1050       13.4%          10.5%            8.3%         9.8%        11.5%  10.2%
                   All         100.0%         100.0%         100.0%       100.0%        100.0% 100.0%


                          Average size of systems requiring over 1050 watts
                               2001            2002           2003         2004          2005
                over 1050       1416           1940           2681         1416          1553




                                                          - 71 -

Annex 13.6. Evidence Available Indicative of Income Status of Beneficiaries

Presently, about 20% of Mexico's population has an income of less than $2 per day. The
incidence of poverty is much higher in rural areas. The World Bank (2006) cites studies
suggesting that 38% of the rural population had an income below the poverty line in 2002
compared to only 11% in urban areas.

The following two tables are based on information collected by the first and second
market studies commissioned by FIRCO. The first one shows annual per capita income of
livestock producers in 2002.6 The second one covers a survey of potential REAP
beneficiaries in Baja California Sur and Sonora7 (but, surprisingly and regrettably, not of
actual demonstration project beneficiaries8).

Nearly 60% of the 167 livestock producers surveyed by FIRCO's first market demand
study (countrywide, 2002) had an overall per capita income of less than US$ 2/day; and
about 43% of the 49 potential Baja California Sur and Sonora farmers surveyed in 2005
earned less than US$ 2/day. (Following Skofias (2002), both calculations assume an
average family household size of 6 persons)



            Table 13.6.1. Estimated annual per capita income in families of
                          livestock survey respondents (2002)
                US$ per capita per year                 No. of respondents
                                  up to   238              32         19.2%
                    from   239     to       714            67         40.1%
                    from   715     to     1,191            36         21.6%
                                   over   1,191            32         19.2%
                                          Total          167         100.0%
        Source: Estimated based on data from Berumen y Asociados 2003.




             Table 13.6.2. Estimated annual per capita income in families
                                of non-pera producers in
                         Baja California Sur and Sonora (2005)
                    US$ per capita per year             No. of respondents
                        less than 222                      4             8.2%
                    from      223     to   665            17            34.7%
                    from      666     to   1109           11            22.4%
                    from    1,110     to   1552            5            10.2%
                    from    1,553     to   1996            5            10.2%
                    from    1,997     to   2439            1             2.0%
                    from    2,440     to   2883            0             0.0%
                    from    2,884     to   3326            1             2.0%
                            3,327 and more                 5            10.2%
                                              Total       49         100.0%
             Source: Estimated based on data from ANES 2006




                                          - 72 -

The following table covers predominantly livestock farmers who benefited from REAP
photovoltaic Water Pumping demonstration funding. The number of bovine head of cattle
these producers owned at the time that they joined the program is shown. Nearly 60% of
these demonstration farmers had less than 50 head of cattle. A livestock producer with 55
head of cattle in a tropical zone would get an annual income in the order of about
US$ 407 from livestock activities (See Model III in Annex 5, based on La Progresita
demonstration project). This figure is not incompatible with the overall low income
figures previously estimated for potential REAP beneficiaries based on surveys
conducted by the market studies. (It should be noted, however, that off farm income is
often a more significant component of income than farming ­ according to the World
Bank 2004, page 71, income from independent agriculture accounted for only 12.6% of
rural incomes in Mexico compared with 11.3% for agricultural salaried work and 76% for
non-agricultural activities. Araujo (2003) cites estimates of 40-50% of income derived
from off farm activities for Mexico.)


                 Table 13.6.3. Average Head of Cattle per Beneficiary in
              Demonstration Projects under Private Property Management

              Number of heads of bovine cattle

                             less                           No. of projects      %
         Greater than        than       Average No. of

                           or = to           heads

                0             10               6.3                 76            11.3
               10             20              15.5                 320           18.1
               20             30              25.0                 121           13.2
               30             50              39.6                 111           16.2
               50            100              71.9                 38            18.0
              100            200              72.6                  5            16.5
             greater than 200                 141.0                45            6.7

         All projects considered              51.6                 673          100.0
        Note: Only projects managed under private property, with bovine cattle as
        their main livestock activity and for which herd and beneficiary data is
        available are considered here. These represent 43% of all demonstrations.9
        For details by subregion see Annex 5, Table 5.3.




                                              - 73 -

