Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19912-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.5 MILLION
(US$8.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR AGRICULTURE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 24, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Mexico Country Managing Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1999)
Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (Mx$)
Mx$1.0 = US$0.10
US$1.0 = Mx$9.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ALCAMPO              Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Productividad Agropecuaria
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
ALIANZA              Programa Alianza para el Campo
Alianzapara el Campo Program
FIRCO                Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido
Trust Fund for Shared Risk
SAGAR                Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural
Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural Development
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
USDOE                United States Department of Energy
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Director:   Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:    John Redwood
Sector Leader:    Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leader:  Michael Carroll



MEXICO
RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR AGRICULTURE
CONTENTS
A. Project Development and Global Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .........                                         ..................  2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal and GEF Operational Program supported by the project ......2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy  ..............................                                .................... 3
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........                                     ................ 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ...........................................................                                                   6
2. Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project .............................. 7
3. Benefits and target population  .......................................................                                   ....  7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .......................                                 ........................ 8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection  ............                                   ......................   9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank, GEF and other development agencies  11
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design  ...........                                     ......................  12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership  ..............                                     ........................  12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..........................                               ......................  13
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic ...........................................................                                                            13
2. Financial ...........................................................                                                           14
3. Technical ...........................................................                                                           14
4. Institutional ............................................................                                                      15
5. Social ...........................................................                                                              15
6. Environmental assessment ............................................................                                           15
7. Participatory approach ...........................................................                                              16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ...........................................................                                                      16
2. Critical risks ...........................................................  17
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................................................                                   ..... 17



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................ 18
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                   18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                   18
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .20
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description .22
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .29
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis .30
Annex 5. Financial Summary .34
Annex 6. Incremental Cost Analysis .35
Annex 7. Environmental Assessment .40
Annex 8. Monitoring and Evaluation Program .42
Annex 9.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................        47
Annex 10. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .................      .................... 52
Annex 11.  Documents in Project File ..................................... 53
Annex 12.  Statement of Loans and Credits ..................................... 54
Annex 13.  Country at a Glance ..................................... 56



MEXICO
RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Mexico Country Managing Unit
Date: November 24, 1999                      Task Team Leader: Michael Carroll
Country Director: Olivier Lafourcade         Sector Manager: John Redwood
Project ID: MX-GE-60718   Sector: Agriculture  Program Objective Category: Enviromnentally Sustainable Development
GEF Supplement ID:                           Focal Area: Climate Change
Financial Instrument: GEF Grant              Program of Targeted Intervention:       [ ]  Yes   [X]  No
Project Financing Data      [] Loan        [] Credit  [ ] Guarantee  [X] Grant    [] Other [Specifyl
Amount: GEF Grant: various currencies equivalent to SDR 6,452,000 (currently valued at US$8.9 million)
Financing plan (US$ '000):
Source                                                      Local              Foreign            Total
Beneficiaries                                            5,255               1,640            6,895
Government                                               1,800                  --             1,800
IBRD'                                                    8,820               4,875            13,695
GEF                                                      6,090               2,810             8,900
Total      21,965               9,325            31,290
Grant Recipient: Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Responsible Agency: Trust Fund for Shared Risk (FIRCO)
Estimated disbursements of GEF Grant (Bank FY/US$M):     2000      2001      2002      2003      2004
Annual      1.0      3.0       2.5        2.0      0.4
Cumulative     1.0       4.0       6.5       8.5       8.9
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: Jan 2000  Expected closing date: June 30, 2004
'Via the Federal Government's Alianzapara el Campo Program, with financing from the Bank-supported Agricultural Productivity
Improvement Project (ALCAMPO) (Loan 4428-ME, approved December 22, 1998).



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                        Project Appraisal Document
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1).
The project's development objectives are:
a) to provide unelectrified farmers with reliable electricity supply for productive purposes in a least-cost
and sustainable manner using renewable energy technologies;
b) to increase the productivity and income of unelectrified farmers by supporting the adoption of
productive investments and improved farming practices; and
c) to improve FIRCO's ability to catalyze the penetration of renewable energy technologies in the
agriculture sector.
Performance indicators, outlined in Annex 1, would focus on the installation of renewable energy systems
and changes in farm productivity and incomes.
2. Project global objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
This is the first GEF project to target renewable energy in the agriculture sector. It's global objectives
are:
a) to promote the use of renewable energy for productive purposes in Mexico's agriculture sector by
removing barriers and reducing implementation costs; and
b) to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the agriculture sector.
Performance indicators, outlined in Annex 1, would focus on the removal of barriers and growth in
demand for renewable energy systems among unelectrified farmers, as well as avoided greenhouse gas
emissions.
Operating within the context of the ongoing Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
(ALCAMPO), the project would support the above development and global objectives by removing
barriers to the penetration of renewable energy technologies in Mexico's agriculture sector. Despite the
fact that, in certain applications, renewable energy systems are less costly than conventional gasoline-
powered systems on a life-cycle basis, several barriers impede their market penetration. The project
would remove these barriers by a) implementing a nation-wide promotion campaign to increase farmers'
awareness of renewable energy systems; b) building the capacity of technicians and agricultural
extensionists through training; c) introducing technical specifications and certification procedures for
farm-based renewable energy equipment; d) carrying out studies on the potential market and applications
for renewable energy in Mexico's agriculture sector; e) installing renewable energy systems (such as
solar- and wind-powered pumps, solar-powered refrigerated milk storage tanks, etc.) on selected farms as
demonstration units to reduce other farmers' perceived risk; f) supporting the proper operation of these
renewable energy systems through the provision of on-going technical assistance to participating farmers
by trained extensionists; and g) testing innovative vendor financing mechanisms for farm-based
renewable energy systems in four states.
B: Strategic Context
1 (a). Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) themes supported by the project (see Annex 1):
Report number: R 99-92, IFC/R 99-82        Discussed: June 8, 1999
The World Bank Group Mexico Country Assistance Strategy emphasizes a development agenda with
three core themes: (i) social sustainability; (ii) removing obstacles to sustainable growth and maintaining
Page 2



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
macro-economic stability; and (iii) more effective public governance. The project would contribute
directly to all three themes. The social theme would be addressed by increasing the income of farmers
and thereby improving the standard of living in rural areas. The growth theme, as well as its key element
of protecting the environment, would be addressed by improving the productivity of farmers using
environmentally-benign, least-cost renewable energy technologies. Finally, the public governance theme
would be addressed by assisting the Government in its decentralization efforts and building the capacity
of government agencies to provide farmers with technical assistance in the use of renewable energy
technologies.
The project is also directly consistent with the World Bank Group's strategy on the environment in
Mexico, under which "priority will be given to identifying "win-win" investment opportunities, where
global environmental benefits and national economic benefits can be generated through an integrated and
mainstreamed approach to development priorities".
h. GEF Operational Program objective addressed by the project:
The project is fully consistent with GEF Operational Program 6: Promoting renewable energy by
removing barriers and reducing implementation costs.  GEF support would help to: a) remove
information and awareness barriers among unelectrified farmers by supporting a renewable energy
promotion campaign aimed at the unelectrified agriculture sector; b) remove human capacity barriers by
training private sector and government technicians, agricultural extensionists and vendors in the design,
installation, operation and maintenance of farm-based renewable energy systems; c) remove consumer
confidence barriers by introducing technical specifications and certification procedures for renewable
energy equipment and services; d) remove information barriers and reduce market entry costs by
supporting market and technology assessments of renewable energy in Mexico's agriculture sector; e)
remove perceived risk barriers by supporting the installation of renewable energy systems on farms in
selected states as demonstration units; and f) contribute towards the removal of financing barriers by
testing innovative vendor financing mechanisms for farm-based renewable energy systems.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The project addresses issues in the agriculture and energy sectors.
Agriculture: Agriculture remains a weak sector of the Mexican economy. Rural poverty has been
expanding in recent years and many farmers have limited options to cope with income and consumption
fluctuations. Nevertheless, agriculture could remain an important economic sector provided a) its
commercial sector continues to be competitive through the permanent use of modern technologies and
increased yields and b) the productive potential of small-scale farming can be fully developed.
Improving the delivery of financial services to the rural population remains one of the main constraints to
the development of the agricultural sector. Financial services remain severely deficient in rural areas and
access to financial resources for productive investment continues to be limited, especially for small
farmers.
In 1996, the Government launched a national agriculture and rural development initiative - theAlianza
para el Campo (Alianza) Program - to increase capitalization in the agriculture sector with the aim of
promoting improved agricultural productivity and production and increased farmer incomes. The
Program fosters agricultural productivity improvement by financing productive investments (under a
matching grant scheme) and by providing support services (research, extension, information and training)
for a wide range of agricultural activities. In providing matching grants for the acquisition of capital
equipment, Alianza essentially substitutes for absent rural finance services. The cornerstones of the
Page 3



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                    Project Appraisal Document
Alianza program are its decentralized approach, with a delegation of administration and decision-making
to the States, and its demand-driven nature, providing financing and support services only in response to
requests from farmers.
The Government most recently developed the Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project'
(ALCAMPO) to support and improve Alianza 's delivery of financing and technical services. The project
was approved for a loan of US$445 million from the World Bank in December 1998 and began
implementation in early 1999.
The Government is also engaged with the World Bank on a number of initiatives to improve rural
finance. In 1994, the Government worked with the Bank on a study of rural financial markets. In 1996 it
initiated the Rural Finance Technical Assistance and Pilot Project with World Bank assistance to
encourage private banks to increase their services in rural areas. Through the Bank-supported Rural
Development in Marginal Areas Project, the Government is experimenting with community-based
revolving loan funds and cost-recovery withinAlianza. SAGAR is currently working with the Bank on a
new study of the potential for savings mobilization and deposit instruments in marginal areas. And
SAGAR is also exploring the possibility of a World Bank loan to finance its Micro-Credit Fund for Rural
Women.
Energy: Approximately 5 percent of Mexico's population remains without access to electricity, including
an estimated 5 million people, 88,000 villages and 600,000 livestock farms. While governments at all
levels recognize the productivity and social development benefits of rural electrification, and especially
of the electrification of farms, budget limitations and rural poverty will prevent the electrification of the
vast majority of these energy users in the foreseeable future.
The Federal Government supports rural electrification through transfer payments to state and municipal
governments for infrastructure and social development investments. The decision over how to use these
funds, whether for rural electrification or other purposes, is left to state and municipal governments.
Several states have used these federal funds to support the electrification of rural households with
renewable energy by providing matching grants towards the purchase of solar home systems.
In 1994, the Federal Government began to support the electrification of farms with renewable energy in 8
of the country's 32 states through FIRCO's participation in the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico
Renewable Energy Program.2 The experience gained by FIRCO through this program has enabled the
government to expand the scope of Alianza to cover the electrification of farms with renewable energy
systems. Farmers can now receive matching grants from Alianza towards the purchase of renewable
energy systems to pump water and power farm equipment. Further, farmers can receive proportionately
larger grants for renewable energy systems than for conventional farm equipment and infrastructure.
However, a number of barriers have been encountered in the implementation of this program, which have
impeded the development of a self-sustaining market in farm-based renewable energy systems.
The barriers impeding penetration of renewable energy technologies in Mexico's agriculture sector
include: a) the lack of awareness among unelectrified farmers regarding renewable energy technologies;
b) a lack of trained technicians and vendors that can design, install and service renewable energy systems
and agricultural extensionists that can advise farmers on their proper operation; c) the lack of technical
specifications and certification processes for renewable energy equipment; d) uncertainty within the
Mexican renewable energy industry regarding the potential market for renewable energy systems in the
agricultural sector and potential applications of renewable energy technologies on farms; e) farmers'
'MX-PE-48505
Further information on this program is provided in Annex 2: Project Background and Description.
Page 4



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                       Project Appraisal Document
perception of renewable energy technologies as risky, simply because they are novel; and f) the high
initial cost of renewable energy systems, relative to conventional alternatives, coupled with deficient rural
finance services that prevent farmers from financing their higher initial cost over time.'
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The agriculture sector issues noted above are being addressed through the on-going Alianza program,
with the help of the Bank-supported Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project.
The project would address the identified barriers to the penetration of renewable energy technologies in
Mexico's agriculture sector by a) implementing a nation-wide promotion campaign to increase farmers'
awareness of renewable energy systems; b) building the capacity of technicians and agricultural
extensionists through training; c) introducing technical specifications and certification procedures for
farm-based renewable energy equipment; d) carrying out studies on the potential market and applications
for renewable energy in Mexico's agriculture sector; e) installing renewable energy systems (such as
solar- and wind-powered pumps and solar-powered refrigerated milk storage tanks, etc.) on selected
farms as demonstration units to reduce other farmers' perceived risk; f) supporting the proper operation
of these renewable energy systems through the provision of on-going technical assistance to participating
farmers by trained extensionists; and g) testing innovative vendor financing mechanisms for farm-based
renewable energy systems in four states.
Together, the above activities would build upon the achievements of the USAID/USDOE-supported
Mexico Renewable Energy Program and expand the foundation for growth in the market for farm-based
renewable energy systems. The a) promotion campaign and b) specifications and certification would
seed the market by vastly increasing the number of farmers that are a) aware of renewable energy
systems and b) assured that they meet basic quality standards. Seeing demonstration units operating on
farms throughout the country would substantially reduce the risk that unelectrified farmers perceive in
investing in this new technology. Trained technicians and agricultural extensionists would be able to
provide quality services and advice to farmers on their renewable energy systems. Information from the
market and technology assessments would increase the confidence of vendors and distributors to enter the
renewable energy market while training would build their capabilities to provide quality equipment and
services. And finally the vendor financing program would demonstrate whether this is a viable option
with which to finance farm-based renewable energy systems.
One of the most important strategic choices adopted for the project is to implement it within the
framework of the federal government's Alianza para el Campo Program. Alianza is an established and
well-run program that covers the entire nation and enjoys substantial support among farmers and all
levels of government. Its demand-driven and participatory approach to the provision of financial and
technical assistance to farmers supports economic efficiency and local ownership. Alianza provides the
project with an established vehicle with which to deliver renewable energy-focused financial and
technical assistance to unelectrified farmers throughout the country.
Another strategic choice is to experiment with vendor financing as an approach to the financing of farm-
based renewable energy systems. Given the deficiency of consumer financing in rural areas, vendors of
renewable energy systems represent an efficient conduit with which to deliver financing to farmers.
l Renewable energy systems (and specifically solar- and wind-powered water pumping systems and solar-powered
refrigerated milk storage tanks) are substantially more expensive to purchase then conventional, gasoline-powered
systems but are typically less costly on a life-cycle basis.
Page 5



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                          Project Appraisal Document
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                  Category      Cost,   % of   Bank-    %         GEF       %
Total  financing       Financing
(USS '000)      (US$ '000)       (US$ '000)
1. Promotion
A promotion campaign targeting renewable  Institutional  $1,824    6                     $1,298    71
energy for productive purposes in the  strengthening
agriculture sector will be carried out.
2. Institutional Strengthening
Technicians, agricultural extensionists and   Institutional  $1,590    5                 $1,298    82
renewable energy system vendors will   strengthening
receive training.
3. Specifications and Certification
Technical specifications and certification    Institutional  $275    I                     $212    77
procedures will be introduced for farm-  strengthening
based renewable energy equipment and its
installation.
4. Market Development
Studies will be carried out on the potential   Institutional  $686    2                    $662    97
market and productive applications for  strengthening
renewable energy systems in the agriculture
sector.
5. Demonstration
Renewable energy systems (such as solar-   Physical   $18,770   60      $8,965    48     $3,830    20
and wind-powered water pumping systems
and solar-powered refrigerated milk storage
tanks, etc.) will be installed among
participating farmers as demonstration
units.                                                        _
6. Technical Assistance
Renewable energy-trained agricultural  Capacity        $4,919   16      $3,530    72       $434     9
extensionists will advise participating  building
farmers on the proper operation of their
renewable energy systems.                                                          _
7. Vendor Financing
A pilot program will test innovative vendor  Institutional  $2,261    7  1,200    53       $636    28
financing mechanisms for farm-based    strengthening
renewable energy systems in four states.
8. Project Management
Project administration, auditing, monitoring  Project    $965    3                         $530    55
and evaluation will be carried out or  management
coordinated by FIRCO.
Total   $31,290   100   $13,695    44     $8,900    28
'Including contingencies.
Page 6



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                    Project Appraisal Document
2. Keypolicy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project builds on the Government's existing policy and institutional framework in the agricultural
sector. It aims to fully integrate renewable energy into the Govemment'sAlianza program of financial
and technical assistance to farmers.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project's target population is the estimated 600,000 unelectrified livestock farms throughout Mexico
and the potential industry of renewable energy vendors and service providers that could cater to this
market. The project's demonstration component would targetAlianza participants while the rest of the
project's components would target Alianza participants and non-participants. A select number of farmers
within the target population will be wealthy enough to purchase renewable energy systems without
financial assistance from Alianza or the GEF. While they will not participate in the demonstration
component, that and other project components would increase their awareness of, and confidence in,
renewable energy systems and thereby increase their purchase of these systems. Poorer farmers that
would be unable to purchase a renewable energy system on their own, even with the project's financial
assistance, would still be able to participate by joining with neighboring farmers to purchase a renewable
energy system that would serve them as a group. For example, several farmers with adjacent properties
could construct a central watering trough connected to a solar-powered pump. Many of the solar-
powered pumps installed by the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Programs supply
water to two or more farmers. Market research to be carried out early in project implementation will
improve this definition of the target population.
The project's economic benefits will be increased farmer incomes derived from investments in
production systems that are made possible due to the superior reliability and lower life-cycle costs of
renewable energy systems in comparison to conventional gasoline-powered systems. Experience under
the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program indicates that solar-powered pumps
are more reliable than gasoline-powered pumps, in part because they have fewer moving parts. Fuel
costs make up roughly half the life-cycle cost of gasoline-powered pumps and since solar- and wind-
powered pumps have no fuel costs, this leads to an immediate saving among participating farmers and an
average 16 percent return on investment. Further increases in participating farmer incomes of between
85 and 190 percent would result from production increases that are made possible by the low operating
costs of renewable energy systems. Since additional operation of solar- and wind-powered pumps is
essentially free, some farmers pump more water and use the excess to irrigate a small field for forage or
fruit and vegetable production. The high fuel and operating costs of gasoline-powered pumps do not
make this additional pumping economic. While the overall financial benefit to participating farmers is
substantial, it is important to remember that these farmers are hosting demonstration systems and the
project's financial assistance is considered necessary to overcome their perceived risk towards new
renewable energy technologies in order to get these systems into the field where they can have a
demonstration impact among other farmers. In social terms, the project will lead to improvements in
overall food security and quality of life in rural areas.
Enviromnentally, the project will avoid the emission of greenhouse gases from gasoline-powered or grid-
connected systems that would be substituted with solar- and wind-powered systems. It is anticipated that
the demonstration and vendor financed systems installed by the project would abate roughly 6,000 metric
tonnes of carbon per year, or roughly 120,000 metric tonnes over the 20 year life span of the renewable
energy systems. More importantly, the project would catalyze a national market for farm-based
renewable energy systems among Mexico's estimated 600,000 unelectrified livestock farms. It is
expected that the project would catalyze the penetration of renewable energy systems among one-third of
the country's unelectrified farms within ten years, a development that would avoid an estimated 0.73
Page 7



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                  Project Appraisal Document
million metric tonnes of carbon annually. In addition, the project would reduce local air, water and soil
pollution associated with gasoline-powered farm equipment. The reduction in water and soil pollution is
particularly significant as gasoline-powered pumps are typically located at or in wells that serve livestock
and human populations.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period:      4 years (2000-2003)
Executing agency:           Trust Fund for Shared Risk (FIRCO)
Financial agency:           Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
The project would be executed by FIRCO, a para-statal agency operating under the Secretariat of
Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR), in cooperation with NAFIN as the financial
agency. Through its offices in each state, FIRCO administers three of the fourAlianza sub-programs that
involve energy-consuming equipment which could be powered by renewable energy: Irrigation
Development (pumps), Improved Pasture Establishment (pumps and electric fences) and Dairy
Technology Improvement (refrigerated milk storage tanks). The fourthAlianza sub-program involving
energy consuming equipment - Rural Development - is administered by SAGAR. FIRCO will coordinate
with SAGAR to ensure that farmers participating in the Rural Development sub-program are able to
participate in the project if they wish. Assurances will be attained by the Bank at negotiations regarding
this coordination.
FIRCO has also been one of the principal Mexican counterparts in the USAID/USDOE-supported
Mexico Renewable Energy Program, which has provided farmers and other end-users with technical and
financial assistance towards their acquisition and use of renewable energy systems.  Through its
participation in this program, FIRCO staff in eight states have developed expertise in renewable energy
systems and coordinated the installation of over 100 solar-powered water pumping systems on farms. In
the process, FIRCO has developed a substantial capability in the provision of financial and technical
support to farmers in the area of renewable energy.
FIRCO would establish a Project Coordination Unit or team (PCO) in its Mexico City headquarters to
direct the project's implementation, with the help of its offices in each state and a contracted firm that
would carry out day-to-day project management. The PCO would execute the promotion, institutional
strengthening, market development and specifications and certification components, with support from
FIRCO's state offices. The demonstration, technical assistance and vendor financing components would
be delegated to FIRCO's state offices, with the support of the PCO and management firm. The state
offices would implement the demonstration and technical assistance components by integrating
renewable energy and GEF support into their ongoing implementation of the above-mentionedAlianza
sub-programs. The vendor financing pilot program would be implemented in the four target states by the
FIRCO offices in those states.
Accounting, financial report and auditing arrangements (See Annex 9): The financial management,
accounting system and internal controls are already in place as part of the Alianza program and are
utilized by FIRCO for the recently completed Rainfed Areas Development Project (Ln. 3778-ME). They
have been operating satisfactorily and their use would be continued under the present project. Resources
and mechanisms to permit financial monitoring and reporting of the project will be in place prior to
effectiveness.
Financial reporting would be carried out FIRCO, including information required for preparation of
statement of expenditures (SOEs), should they be utilized. FIRCO would carry out financial accounting
and maintain separate project accounts and records for project-related expenditures, in accordance with
Page 8



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                   Project Appraisal Document
sound and accepted accounting practices. Financial reports and SOEs would be consolidated for
submission to the Bank. Financial audits would be carried out annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank and Govemment of Mexico. Audit reports would be prepared in accordance with
International Auditing Standards (IAS), FARAH and MET (Framework agreement between the Bank and
Secretariat for Administrative Control - SECODAM). The annual auditor's opinion would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of each calendar year.
Procurement (see Annex 9): Procurement of goods and small works financed by the project would be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). All
consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
(January 1997; revised September 1997 and January 1999).
Most of the equipment and goods to be procured under this project would be carried out with direct
participation and financial contribution of the beneficiaries, and implemented as part of the
Demonstration Component. Procurement would be carried out by the beneficiaries and payments made
through the state FIRCO office. Eligibility criteria and operation procedures would be included in the
Operational Manual. Given the remote and scattered location of beneficiaries, there is little competition
among contractors for these small projects, which would lead one to expect that formal bidding at the
community level will not reduce cost given all the transaction costs involved. In this case, participation
substitutes for formal processes in ensuring cost-effectiveness. Consequently, simplified procurement
procedures, including the utilization of local shopping and direct contracting, will be utilized. The
implementation of these procedures would require strong supervision on the part of FIRCO and its state
offices. However, as sole or joint implementing agency of other Bank supported projects, FIRCO has
developed sufficient capacity to meet the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements, as
verified by the preliminary capacity assessment performed at appraisal
The Project Procurement Plan would be agreed upon during negotiations and the final version would be
incorporated in the Operational Manual to be submitted to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation (see Annex 8): FIRCO would establish and implement a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation program for the project.
For monitoring, FIRCO would adapt its own module within ALCAMPO's computerized management
information system to track the project's inputs, outputs and outcomes and to ensure that
implementation is consistent with the rules and criteria included in the Operational Manual.
Information would be collected by FIRCO staff at headquarters and in state offices as well as
participating extensionists.
For evaluation, FIRCO would coordinate the implementation of two project evaluations -- one at mid-
term and one upon project completion - by independent consultants. Evaluation would focus on the
project's implementation and its development impact. The market assessment study (included in the
market development component) would establish a baseline for several of the impact indicators. The
results of the mid-term evaluation would inform project implementation in years three and four.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
With respect to the scope of the project, a broader scope encompassing all rural energy users, including
Page 9



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
farms, households, schools, health clinics and small/cottage industries, was considered. While such a
broad scope could offer economies of scale in catalyzing the rural market for renewable energy, it was
rejected for four reasons. First, the Secretariat of Energy has requested World Bank assistance to prepare
a separate rural energy project in Mexico that would address barriers to renewable energy use among
other rural energy users. That project would aim to foster new approaches to rural electrification using
renewable energy technologies that rely more on the private sector and less on government subsidies.
Second, one of the intentions of the proposed project would be to mainstream renewable energy within
Alianza -- an established nation-wide agricultural development program that constitutes a ready-made
delivery mechanism  for the project's activities.  A more comprehensive approach would have
necessitated the creation of new delivery mechanisms to reach other types of rural energy users, a change
that would likely complicate and slow project implementation, and possibly hinder the mainstreaming
impact within Alianza. Third, the prevalence of ejidos in rural areas would have limited the potential
synergies between farm and household electrification. Ejidos are rural communities where people live in
small, concentrated hamlets and travel daily to their fields in surrounding areas.  Simultaneous
electrification of farms and households using renewable energy systems is usually unviable in an ejido
due to the long distances between them. Fourth, potential synergies would have been similarly limited by
voltage and current incompatibilities between solar-powered farm and household electrical equipment.
In terms of the choice of technology for the electrification of isolated farms, grid connection and
gasoline-powered systems were rejected because they are not least cost on a life-cycle basis and because
they would contribute to additional greenhouse gas emissions.
In defining the project's delivery mechanism, implementation outside the auspices of Alianza was
rejected because doing so would necessitate the creation of an entirely new institutional structure with
which to reach farms throughout the country. In Alianza the project will enjoy the benefits of operating
within an established, well-respected and well-run program that already provides farmers throughout the
entire country with financial and technical assistance for the acquisition of capital equipment and for
.improved operations.
Regarding the geographical scope of the project's demonstration component, a more limited scope
encompassing a smaller number of states, in order to test the impact of demonstration units in the field,
was rejected based on experience under the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy
Program which has proven the positive impact of demonstration units.
With respect to the type of financing provided by the GEF within the demonstration component, a
contingent financing approach, whereby the GEF grant to individual farmers would be repayable in the
event the renewable energy system was profitable, was examined, but was rejected as not being cost-
effective. Alianza does not currently recover grants from farmers, and recovering repayments for the RE
systems only would entail establishing an entirely new mechanism in all participating states for a
relatively small number of subprojects and repayment stream (1,230 sub-projects and a maximum of $3.8
million in grant repayments). Pursuing this option was considered impractical and costly by FIRCO and
was therefore rejected.
With respect to financing-related activities, a focus on consumer financing was rejected due to
deficiencies in the rural financing sector and the fact that addressing these deficiencies would be beyond
the scope of a renewable energy project such as this. Instead, vendor financing will be tested as an option
to remove the high initial investment barrier facing renewable energy equipment.
Page 10



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                       Project Appraisal Document
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector issue                      Project                   Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings -
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed:
Agriculture and Irrigation
Assist private sector with the     Mexico: On-Farm and Minor            S              S
improvement of on-farm irrigation    Irrigation Improvement Project
efficiency                         (Ln. 3704-ME)
Improve productivity of rainfed    Mexico: Rainfed Areas                S              S
farming activities                 Development Project
(Ln. 3778-ME)
Poverty alleviation in highly      Mexico: Rural Development in         S              S
marginalized rural areas           Marginal Areas
Support capitalization and         Mexico: Agricultural                S               S
productivity improvement among     Productivity Improvement
small- and medium-scale farmers.    Project (Ln. 4428-ME)
Bank/GEF-financed: Renewable
Energy
Remove barriers to rural           Argentina: Renewable Energy          S              S
electrification with renewable energy  in Rural Markets Project
Remove barriers to rural           India: Renewable Resources           S              S
electrification and grid-connected  Development Project
electricity generation with renewable
energy
Remove barriers to rural           Sri Lanka: Energy Services           S              S
electrification and grid-connected  Delivery Project
electricity generation with renewable
energy
Remove barriers to rural          Indonesia: Solar Home Systems         S              S
electrification with solar energy  Project
Other development agencies
Promote renewable energy in        USAIDIUSDOE Mexico                  n/a            n/a
Mexico's agricultural sector       Renewable Energy Program
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Page II



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                       Project Appraisal Document
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Flexibility and demand-driven approaches are key to building ownership, defining local priorities and
facilitating improved implementation and sustainability of rural and agricultural development initiatives.
* Through its incorporation in the Alianza program, the project adopts a flexible and demand-driven
approach to the provision of financial and technical assistance for renewable energy systems.
Micro-investment programs risk forming a disparate collection of interventions that may not catalyze the
critical mass of activities to attract the private sector, generate competition among suppliers and foster the
establishment of support services.
While operating within Alianza's demand-driven approach, through strategic marketing the project
will aim to install an average of 34 renewable energy systems in each participating state. In this way,
it will catalyze local and/or regional markets for renewable energy systems. Experience under the
USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program indicates that as few as 15 systems
can lead to the entry of new renewable energy suppliers in local markets.
It is important that investments in new technologies or practices be accompanied by technical assistance
in their proper operation.
* The project will make renewable energy-trained extensionists available to participating farmers in
order to ensure the satisfactory operation of newly acquired renewable energy systems.
Poor timing and lengthy budgetary and bureaucratic processes are likely to jeopardize the implementation
of rural development programs, particularly in agriculture where natural cycles impose time constraints.
T The project will adopt Alianza's agile mechanisms for project approval and disbursements, and will
benefit from the Bank-supported ALCAMPO project's activities that will further improveAlianza's
delivery of financial and technical assistance. In addition, the project will benefit from FIRCO's
decentralized structure that supports a responsive approach to local demands for technology-related
financial and technical assistance.
Developmental considerations, rather than technology or environmental considerations, should dominate
any initiative to penetrate agricultural markets with new, environmentally-benign technologies, since
farmers are primarily interested in productivity and income gains than new technology or environmental
benefits.
* By setting the project within the auspices of theAlianza program, developmental considerations will
dominate the project. It will add renewable energy systems to the menu of options thatAlianza offers
farmers to address their individual needs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Mexican Government has supported renewable energy systems for rural electrification since the
early 1990s, when it initiated a large-scale photovoltaic development program that led to the installation
of approximately 60,000 solar home systems. The Government continues to support rural electrification
with renewable energy, but indirectly now that it is up to state and municipal governments to decide how
to spend federal transfer payments on infrastructure and social development.
Page 12



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                    Project Appraisal Document
In 1994, the Govermnent expanded the scope of its renewable energy-based rural electrification activities
when FIRCO began to promote the electrification of farms using renewable energy technologies, under
the auspices of the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program. Through FIRCO,
the Program operated in 8 of the country's 32 states, training government and private sector technicians
in renewable energy systems and supporting the installation of 108 solar-powered water pumping systems
on farms. The Program continues to operate in 1999, although its focus has shifted from training and
investment to leveraging replication among other farmers and monitoring impacts.' The GEF project
would build upon the Program's achievements and expand the scope to a national level.
The proposed project would become part of the ongoing, nation-wide Alianza para el Campo Program,
launched by the federal government in 1996. Alianza enjoys strong political support and received a
substantial budget increase in 1998 and again in 1999. Its decentralized strategy and matching
contributions by state governments ensures substantial involvement and ownership at the state level. As a
result of its participation in the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program, the
Government has expanded the scope of the Alianza program to encompass renewable energy systems.
And as a result of the development of this GEF project, the Government has decided to provide
incremental government grants to farm-based renewable energy systems through Alianza.
Mexico's GEF operational focal point (Secretariat of Finance) has endorsed the request for GEF support
for the project (in a letter dated April 23, 1999).
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The Bank, with its extensive experience in both renewable energy and decentralized, demand-driven
agricultural and rural development projects, is well qualified to support the Government of Mexico in its
efforts to integrate renewable energy into its agricultural development programs. Bank participation in
the project would complement federal and state government expertise, bringing lessons and insights from
related projects in other countries, to ensure the design of an effective program of financial and technical
assistance for renewable energy in the agriculture sector. The project would also benefit from the Bank's
involvement in the associated ALCAMPO project, which includes actions to strengthen Alianza's
delivery of financial and technical assistance to farmers. In addition, the project support the development
of a comprehensive and systematic monitoring and evaluation program within FIRCO, leading to
improved operations in the provision of financial and technical assistance to farmers in the area of
renewable energy.
GEF support would enable FIRCO to expand the scope of its renewable energy-related activities to a
national level and to adopt an integrated approach to the removal of barriers to renewable energy systems
in the agriculture sector (combining promotion, demonstration, technical assistance, research and
specifications and certification).  This expanded scope would support accelerated penetration of
renewable energy technologies in Mexico's agriculture sector.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 11)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[XJ Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV = US$ 25.6 million; ERR = 30.9%
Economic analysis focused on the demonstration component, since it is the only component involving
investments on the ground. The project's overall economic return was estimated using a) an expected
'Further information on the program is presented in Annex 2: Project Background and Description.
Page 13



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                   Project Appraisal Document
distribution of demonstration systems by type (e.g. solar- and wind-powered water pumping systems and
solar-powered refrigerated milk tanks) and b) for each type, an expected economic return based on historical
data from the USAID-USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program. This rate of return reflects
only the direct benefits stemming from the demonstration component and does not capture the project's
positive externalities, such as lower emissions of greenhouse gases.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):
NPV = US$ 32.2 million; FRR = 39.9%
The financial rates of return of individual farm models are higher than the ERR due to the subsidies in
certain investment costs. The models show increases in total on-farm income of between 85 and 190
percent at full development, signaling that the investment incentives and technical assistance provided
should be attractive to small farmers and promote their interest in the proposed types of productive
investments that are made possible by renewable energy systems.
The high financial rate of return associated with the renewable energy systems installed by the project
begs the question why GEF assistance is required. The answer to this question is because of the high
perception of risk among isolated farmers when it comes to this new technology. The GEF contribution
is necessary to overcome this perceived risk barrier and get renewable energy systems into the field
where they can have a demonstration impact and help convince other farmers to invest in them.
Fiscal impact: The project would be implemented under theAlianzapara el Campo Program. The total
cost of the Project, excluding farmers' contribution, is estimated at about US$24.4 million (US$31.3
million inclusive of farmers' contribution), or about US$6 millionper annum. Roughly two-thirds of
those costs would be covered by federal sources and state governments with World Bank support and the
remaining one-third by the GEF. The project would operate within the existing budgets of SAGAR and
state governments and would not generate additional budgetary financial requirements. Given the income
of the target population, and the fact that agriculture-related activities are mostly exempt from Value
Added Tax (IVA), incremental tax revenues accruing to the Federal Government as a result of project
activities would be relatively small, amounting to approximately US$1.6 million. Therefore, while the
fiscal impact of the project would be negative, it would remain within the bounds of that already derived
from current Alianza programs.
3. Technical.
The project is considered to be technically sound, given that:
a) it involves technologies that are either proven in the field, such as solar- and wind-powered pumps, or
that have been fully developed and tested prior to field installation, such as solar-powered refrigerated
milk storage tanks; and
b) individual systems would comply with technical specifications approved by FIRCO;
c) the operation of these systems would be supported by an existing network of Alianza-supported
extensionists who would receive training on the operation and maintenance of farm-based renewable
energy systems;
d) the project includes an integrated set of actions that are designed to remove all barriers to the
increased penetration of renewable energy systems in the agriculture sector; and
Page 14



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                    Project Appraisal Document
e) the project employs Alianza 's decentralized structures that ensure state participation and contribution.
4. Institutional:
The project is considered to be institutionally sound, given that:
a) Alianza's ongoing matching grant program, within which the project's demonstration component
would operate, is well-established, with specific limitations being addressed by the ongoing
ALCAMPO project;
b) through its participation in the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program,
FIRCO has gained relevant experience for the project, including:
* coordinating training programs for technicians and extensionists;
* promoting renewable energy technologies among farmers;
* combining Alianza and foreign funds in a matching grant scheme to support farmers' purchase
of renewable energy systems; and
* supporting farmers' successful operation of renewable energy technologies with ongoing
technical assistance; and
c) for those activities in which FIRCO lacks experience (e.g. certain aspects of promotion, specifications
and certification, technology development, etc.), it will engage qualified individuals and institutions to
carry out project activities.
S. Social:
The project is considered to be socially sound given that it will operate within Alianza which has existing
mechanisms regarding the utilization of culturally appropriate instruments to ensure access and active
participation of indigenous communities. These mechanisms are being strengthened by the ongoing
Bank-supported ALCAMPO project, which is targeting small farmers and rural poor households, many of
which do not have access to electricity and are therefore within this project's focus. Specifically, the
project would make extensionists and information available to farmners in the languages of the major
indigenous groups whose members are potentially eligible to participate in the project.
Notwithstanding the above, the market assessment to be carried out within the Market Development
component will include a socioeconomic analysis of project beneficiaries. The results of this assessment
will be used to adjust project implementation if necessary.
6. Environmental assessment: (see Annex 7)
Environmental Category     [ ] A   [X] B   []C
The solar and wind technologies whose agricultural applications are to be demonstrated through the
project are considered to be among the most environment-friendly forms of energy. Environmental
benefits at the global level will be reduction in emission of greenhouse gases; and at the local level,
abatement of air, water and soil pollution through substitution of gasoline-powered equipment. All
potential negative environmental impacts associated with the use of renewable energy systems to increase
agricultural productivity will be addressed through the environmental procedures established the
Operational Manual. This manual replicates the environmental procedures from the ALCAMPO manual,
which apply regardless of the source of energy, with additions covering one aspect (battery disposal)
which is specific to certain uses of solar energy.
Page 15



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
In the case of wind energy, the technology itself presents no potential risks to the environment, with the
exception of noise or wind-farms located in flyways of migratory birds - situations which do not apply to
this project.  However, the project would involve some solar energy applications that may employ
batteries (e.g. refrigerated milk storage tanks and milking machines). Given the small amount of batteries
that would be involved, and the fact that no formal battery recycling programs exist in Mexico, the
project would not involve a formal battery recycling program. Instead, the project will take steps to
mitigate potential environmental damage from improper battery disposal. The technician training
program will include information on proper battery issue and disposal.
In order to avoid more general environmental impacts associated with on-farm investment projects, the
project would employ the same environmental procedures as required by ALCAMPO.
7. Participatory approach:
The project's key stakeholders are unelectrified farmers, agricultural extensionists, renewable energy
system vendors, State governments and FIRCO state offices.
Through its participation in the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program, FIRCO
has established communication channels with these stakeholders. Previous and ongoing consultations
with these stakeholders, as well as FIRCO's experience in implementing that Program, contributed to the
design of this project.
By operating within Alianza, the project will adopt the participatory approach of that program, whereby
State-level decisions on sub-program priorities, investment proposals and payments to beneficiaries are
made by a committee of representatives from farmer organizations, state agencies and SAGAR. In
addition, the project will adoptAlianza's participatory and demand-driven approach to investment project
identification, design and selection, whereby farmers decide what equipment is installed on their farms,
albeit with the advice of a trained extensionist.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project aims to remove barriers to renewable energy in the agriculture sector in order to foster
sustainable markets for them. It has been prepared on the assumption that the low penetration rate of
renewable energy systems among unelectrified farmers is due to the gap between a) the initial cost of
renewable energy systems and b) farmers' willingness to pay for them. The project intends to eliminate
this gap, and thereby catalyze widespread market penetration, by a) reducing the cost of renewable
energy systems by seeding the market with 1,230 demonstration systems in states where they have yet to
be demonstrated, b) testing vendor financing as a mechanism to overcome the high initial cost barrier and
c) increasing farmers' willingness to pay for these systems by reducing their perceived risk through
information dissemination, technical specifications and certification, field demonstration and technical
assistance. Experience under the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program
indicates that these types of activities can catalyze sustainable markets for renewable energy systems in
the agriculture sector.
More specifically, the prospects for sustainability of barrier removal are as follows:
* Lack of awareness among farmers: The project's promotion, demonstration and technical assistance
Page 16



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
components should permanently remove this barrier in participating states. News of superior
technology travels fast in rural agricultural communities and the combination of promotion activities,
on-the-ground demonstration and on-going extension services will go a long way towards permanently
raising the awareness of farmers throughout the participating states.
* Farmers' perceived risks with respect to renewable energy: The project's demonstration component
should go a long way towards removing this barrier permanently. Seeing is believing in most rural
areas and witnessing the successful operation of demonstration units will convince many farmers that
renewable energy systems are reliable and cost-effective.
* Lack of renewable energy-trained technicians and extensionists: Technicians and extensionists trained
under the program would maintain their knowledge base through their work installing renewable
energy systems and advising farmers on their proper operation.  In addition, these trained
professionals as well as their trainers would represent a pool of knowledge that could be tapped in the
future to train new technicians and extensionists.
* Higher initial cost of renewable energy systems, coupled with deficient rural finance services: The
recently announced incremental government support for renewable energy systems will help to
diminish this barrier. In addition, vendor financing, to be tested in the project's vendor financing
pilot, could also contribute to removing this barrier.
* Lack of information on the renewable energy market and viable applications in agriculture: This
barrier would be permanently removed by the studies to be implemented by the project.
- Lack of specifications and certification: This barrier would be permanently removed by introducing
specifications and certification processes for farm-based renewable energy systems.
Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be high, given that the investments in renewable energy
systems would be complemented by technical assistance to ensure their proper operation. In addition,
increases in net income as a result of the renewable energy equipment will support improved maintenance
of that equipment over time and further investments in productivity-improving equipment.
Page 17



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                             Project Appraisal Document
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk                 Risk Minimization Measure
Ra tIn
Project outputs to development objectives
Promotion campaign does not reach target      M     The project will use SAGAR's Social Communication
population.                                         Department, which has substantial experience in
communications with the rural sector, to plan and
implement the promotion campaign.
Market and technology assessments are         M     The project will involve active consultation with
insufficient to reduce/eliminate private sector's   renewable energy industry in order to ensure that the
uncertainty.                                        assessments produce the necessary information.
Renewable energy is not effectively integrated  N   FIRCO's existing integration of renewable energy in
into operations of selected Alianza sub-            Alianza operations in selected states will inform similar
programs.                                           efforts in other states.
Extensionists do not provide effective technical    M  Training programs and annual workshops will build the
assistance to farmers.                              capacity of extensionists.
Project components to outputs
Component implementation procedures are       M     The project's supervision activities will ensure effective
ineffective.                                        implementation.
Political interference impacts on project cycle.  M  Clear targeting criteria and enforcement of subproject
selection procedures and enforcement of demand-driven
mechanisms should minimize political interference.
Change in government impacts Alianza and      N     Strong State Government participation should contribute to
project implementation.                             the project's continuity beyond the present Federal
administration.
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects are envisaged.
G: Conditions for Effectiveness
a) Approval of the Operational Manual, including an Implementation Plan for Year I of the project
Page 18



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                        Project Appraisal Document
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities would be ready for the start of project
implementation.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature)
Task Team Le        ichael arroll (  SES)
[signature]    M     2 f <,
Acting Sector Mja4er: John Redwood (LCSES)
[signature]
Country Director: Olivier Laourcade (LCC1C)
Page 19



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                                  Project Appraisal Document
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
a. Sector-related CAS Goal:
Support social sustainability and   - Reduced incidence of poverty  Project evaluations    Continued federal and state
protect the environment.         among project beneficiaries.                           government support for actions
- Increased farm productivity among                     to improve the livelihood of
participating farms.                                   farming families using
- Fewer negative environmental                          environmentally-benign
impacts among participating farms.                    technologies and practices.
b. GEF Operational Program:
Promote renewable energy by    - 50 - 80% increase in national sales   Project evaluations
removing barriers and reducing   of renewable energy systems for
implementation costs.           productive agricultural applications.
- 20% reduction in average price of
farm-based renewable energy
systems.
Project Development Objective:
Provide farmers in isolated  Number of renewable energy systems  Project             Future currency devaluations do
areas with reliable electricity   installed and operating correctly,  implementation  not significantly increase the
supply for productive       either directly through the project's    reports         cost of imported renewable
purposes in a sustainable   activities or via replication among                      energy systems.
manner, using renewable     600,000 non-participating           Project evaluations
energy technologies where   unelectrified farms.
feasible.
Increase the productivity and   Changes in productivity and income    Project evaluations
income of farmers by        among participating farmers.
supporting productive
investments and improving
farming practices.
Global Objectives:
Remove barriers and reduce    - Barriers removed:               Project              Targeted barriers can be
implementation costs of       - awareness increased             implementation       removed through project
renewable energy in the       - perceived risk reduced          reports              activities over 4 years.
agriculture sector.           - technicians, extensionists and
vendors trained                Project evaluations    Project receives sufficient
- market and technology                               commitment and resources to
information disseminated                             support successful barrier
- specification and certification                     removal.
procedures introduced
- Penetration of renewable energy
equipment among one third of
Mexico's estimated 600,000
unelectrified livestock farms within
10 years.
Reduce greenhouse gas       Avoided carbon emissions by project   Project evaluations
emissions in the agriculture    completion of 30,000 metric tonnes
sector.                     per year by renewable energy systems
in productive agricultural applica-
tions.
Page 20



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                             Project Appraisal Document
Project Design Summary (cont'd)
Narrative Summary              Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Project Outputs:
Widespread increase in awareness  - Change in awareness levels     Surveys of rural      Promotion campaign
of renewable energy systems     - Publications, radio advertisements   populations      reaches target population.
among 600,000 unelectrified       and videos produced/disseminated
farmers                         - Workshops/demonstration days     Project
held                            implementation
- Fairs/expositions attended      reports
Up to 1,230 demonstration       - Up to 1,050 solar-powered water  Project               Renewable energy is
renewable energy systems        pump systems installed            implementation         effectively integrated into
installed and operating correctly    - Up to 55 wind-powered water pump  reports         operations of selected
systems installed                                       Alianza sub-programs.
- Up to 24 solar-powered refrigerated  Vendor surveys
milk storage tanks installed
- A select number of other systems
Participating farmers receive   Farmers receive technical assistance   Project           Extensionists are able to
technical assistance in the                                        implementation        provide effective technical
operation of their renewable                                       reports               assistance on renewable
energy systems                                                                           energy systems.
2,500 technicians, agricultural  2,500 technicians, extensionists and    Project
extensionists and equipment     vendors trained                    implementation
vendors trained in renewable                                      reports
energy systems
Reduced uncertainty regarding the  Dissemination of results from market  Project         Market and technology
market for, and applications of,    and technology assessments.   implementation         assessments are sufficient
renewable energy in the                                            reports              to reduce/eliminate private
agriculture sector.                                                                      sector's uncertainty.
Improved understanding of       Dissemination of lessons from      Project
prospects for vendor fmancing of   vendor financing pilot program  implementation
farm-based renewable energy                                        reports
systems.
Introduction of specifications and   Successful introduction of    Project
certification procedures        specifications and certification   implementation
procedures                        reports
Page 21



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                          Project Appraisal Document
Project Components:              Budget for each component (Us$ '000)
Promotion                                    1,824                                      Component implementation
Institutional Strengthening                  1,590                                      procedures are effective.
Specifications and Certification               275
Market Development                             686                                      Political interference has
Demonstration                               18,770                                      minimal impact on project
Technical Assistance                         4,919                                      cycle.
Vendor Financing                             2,261
Project Management                             965
TOTAL                                       31,290                           .        1
Page 22



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                      Project Appraisal Document
Annex 2
Project Background and Description
A. Background
Alianzapara el Campo
The proposed project would be implemented within the framework of the Alianza para el Campo
(Alianza), a program established by the federal government in 1996 to increase capitalization in the
agriculture sector. Operating under a matching-grant scheme, the program supports farmers' investment
in equipment and infrastructure, including that powered by renewable energy, and the provision of
support services, including research, extension, information and training. The program's aim is to
promote improved agricultural productivity and production and increased income among farmers. Its
budget was approximately US$350 million in 1997 and has been increased in 1998 and 1999.
The program operates on a demand-driven basis, providing financial and technical assistance to farmers
only in response to their request. Farmer's submit proposals for equipment or infrastructure investments
to local rural development agencies. The proposals are reviewed and approved for funding by state-level
committees made up of representatives from state and federal agencies as well as farmer associations.
Farmers' requests for support services are handled in a similar manner. Depending on the type of
investment or service, Alianza provides farmers with a grant that covers between 25 and 90 percent of the
total cost.
Alianza operates through 27 sub-programs, each of which is focused on a specific type of investment or
service.  Three of the larger sub-programs are a) Improved Pasture Establishment, b) Irrigation
Development and c) Dairy Technology Improvement. These three sub-programs support investments
that include energy-consuming equipment such as water pumps, electric fences, refrigerated milk storage
tanks and milking machines. Among the hundreds of thousands of farms without access to electricity,
solar and wind energy are viable alternatives to gasoline as an energy source to power these types of
equipment. Renewable energy equipment is explicitly included as eligible for government support under
these three sub-programs. All three sub-programs are administered by the Trust Fund for Shared Risk
(FIRCO), a para-statal agency operating under the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural
Development (SAGAR). A fourth Alianza sub-program, Rural Development, supports investments in
energy-consuming equipment such as water pumps and is implemented by SAGAR. FIRCO will
coordinate with SAGAR to ensure that participating farmers in the Rural Development sub-program are
able to access the project's financing and support for renewable energy systems if they wish.
In March 1999, the federal government adjusted the cost sharing formulas within two of the above
Alianza sub-programs in order to provide additional support for renewable energy systems. The changes
were a direct result of the development of this GEF project. In the Dairy Technology Improvement sub-
program, the federal government will now cover 50 percent of the cost of renewable energy equipment,
compared to the standard 25 percent. And in the Improved Pasture Establishment sub-program, the
government will now cover 50 percent of the cost of renewable-energy powered equipment, compared to
the standard 40 percent.
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
In early 1999, SAGAR and FIRCO began implementation of the Agricultural Productivity Improvement
Project (ALCAMPO), a US$556 million project financed in part by a loan of US$444 million from the
World Bank. The project's objective is to support and improve SAGAR and FIRCO's implementation of
selected Alianza sub-programs, including the three sub-programs noted above. The idea for a GEF-
Page 23



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
supported renewable energy project operating within the auspices of these three Alianza sub-programs
emerged during preparation of ALCAMPO.
Mexico Renewable Energy Program
Since 1994, the US Agency for International Development and US Department of Energy have supported
the Mexico Renewable Energy Program, which aims to increase the use of renewable energy systems in
unelectrified areas of Mexico. FIRCO is one of several Mexican organizations that are participating in
the program, and has increased its capability to support farmers' acquisition and operation of renewable
energy systems. The program has supported the training of FIRCO and private sector technicians in 8 of
the country's 32 states on photovoltaic (PV) water pumping systems and, through FIRCO, has provided
financial and technical assistance to the installation of 108 PV water pumps in eight states, representing a
total investment of $7.5 million. 101 of these systems were installed in just four states. Since 1996, the
program has provided this support through the Alianza program.
FIRCO is convinced of the developmental benefits of renewable energy systems for unelectrified
farmers, and has expanded the scope of the three Alianza sub-programs that it administers to encompass
renewable energy systems. Farmers can now receive matching grants from Alianza towards the purchase
of renewable energy systems to pump water and power farm equipment. While the USAID/USDOE-
supported program continues to support FIRCO's activities in renewable energy, its focus has shifted
from training and field demonstration to leveraging replication among other farmers and monitoring
impacts. FIRCO is now seeking additional financial and technical assistance to expand its renewable
energy promotion and support activities throughout the country.
B. Socio-Economic Characterization of the Target Population'
There are an estimated 4.4 million rural production units (farms) in Mexico, of which an estimated 1.3
million are dedicated to livestock. The project would focus on livestock farms since a) renewable
energy-powered pumping systems are generally too small to produce enough water for large-scale field
irrigation and b) refrigerated milk storage tanks would only be located on livestock farms. An estimated
0.6 million of the 1.3 million livestock farms do not have access to electricity.
Indigenous people make up an estimated 11 percent of the national population. Of this total, an estimated
51 percent speak an indigenous language and of these, an estimated 17 percent are monolingual, speaking
only that indigenous language. In other words, roughly 9 percent (900,000) of the county's indigenous
population does not speak Spanish.
'Based on statistics from the national statistical agency (INEGI) and Alianza.
Page 24



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                      Project Appraisal Document
The 0.6 million livestock farms without electricity can be categorized as follows:
Number of  Proportiorn of  Number of    Avg Family   Number of Indigenous
Farms        Total     Animals per    Income             Farmers
Farm        (US$1yr)        (monolingual)
Subsistence         276,000       46%          1-5          1,650             19,500
(3,000)
Semi-commercial     216,000       36%          5-20         3,100              7,500
(400)
Commercial          108,000       18%          >20          8,250               750
(75)
TOTAL               600,000       100%                                        27,750
(3,475)
The above figures indicate that roughly half the target population is made up of subsistence farmers, with the
balance being semi-commercial or commercial farmers. Of the 600,000 unelectrified farms, less than five
percent (27,750) are owned by indigenous people, of which roughly ten percent (3,475) do not speak Spanish.
C. Project Description
The proposed project would be the first GEF project to target renewable energy in the agriculture sector.
It would remove barriers to the use of renewable energy systems in Mexico's agriculture sector and
support increased integration of renewable energy into Alianza. The project would include eight
components:
1. Promotion - US$1.824 million (6% of totalproject cost)
This component would aim to increase the awareness of renewable energy technologies and their
potential benefits among Mexico's farmers and their associated network of private sector companies and
government agencies. In addition, the component would promote participation in the proposed project.
This would be achieved through a variety of media:
* pamphlets and brochures;
* posters;
* technical briefs;
* radio advertising;
* videos;
* workshops for farmers;
* demonstration events; and
* agricultural fairs and expositions.
2. Institutional Strengthening - USS1.590 million (5% of total project cost)
The objectives of this component would be a) to increase the capacity of private and public sector
technicians to design, install and maintain farm-based renewable energy systems in Mexico, b) to
increase the capacity of both private sector and govemment agricultural extensionists to advise farmers
Page 25



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
on their proper operation and c) to build the capacity of vendors to operate successfully in the renewable
energy market. It would include the following sub-components:
* training of trainers;
* training of technicians, extensionists and vendors; and
* national and regional seminars.
Given the number and geographical scope of people to be trained (an estimated 2,500 throughout the
country), the component would begin with the training of a selected number of professionals who would
in turn deliver training to technicians, extensionists and vendors throughout the country. In this way,
Mexico will develop the capacity to build and maintain the necessary human resources to support the
sustainable use of renewable energy technologies in the agriculture sector.
The technician and extensionist training would combine theoretical and practical subjects, culminating in
the group's installation of a renewable energy system on a farm, under the guidance of qualified trainers.
Prior participation in this training would be compulsory for those extensionists that would provide
participating farmers with technical assistance on the operation of their renewable energy systems.
Annual seminars in each of six regions would provide fora for the project's participants, and in particular
government and private sector technicians that are in direct contact with farmers, to exchange ideas and
experiences.
Over time, as the demand for farm-based renewable energy systems grows, responsibility for supporting
farmers owning renewable energy systems will switch from government-funded technicians to private
sector vendors servicing local markets.
3. Specifications and Certification - US$0.275 million (1% of totalproject cost)
The purpose of this component would be to improve farmers' confidence in renewable energy systems by
introducing specifications and certification procedures that ensure high quality renewable energy
equipment and support services.
Technical specifications for solar-powered pumps would be developed based upon those currently in use
by the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program. Specifications for other types of
equipment, such as wind-powered pumps and solar-powered refrigerated milk storage tanks, would be
newly developed by a contracted specialist consulting firm.
Certification procedures would be introduced for renewable energy equipment and service providers,
including vendors and technicians.
4. Market Development - USSO.686 million (2% of total project cost)
This component would aim to reduce uncertainty regarding the potential markets for renewable energy
technologies in Mexico's agriculture sector, and therefore encourage the entry of private sector
equipment and service providers. This would be achieved through two types of studies: a) a market
assessment and b) technology assessments. The results of these studies would be widely disseminated
among potential equipment and service providers.
The market assessment would document a) the number of farms lacking electricity and which therefore
Page 26



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                          Project Appraisal Document
could use renewable energy systems for their energy-consuming equipment, b) farmers' capacity and
willingness to pay for renewable energy systems, and c) Mexican renewable energy system
manufacturers, assemblers, vendors and service providers, as well as the technical quality and prices of -
their products and services. The assessment would also analyze opportunities for the domestic renewable
energy industry to improve the scope and quality of the products and services that it offers to farmers.
A series of technology assessments would determine the commercial feasibility of renewable energy
applications, taking into consideration technology that is currently and potentially available in Mexico.
One technology assessment would focus on solar-powered milk storage tanks. Others would focus on
other possibilities, including solar-powered milking machines and solar-, wind-, biomass- and biogas-
powered tools and equipment.
The market and technology assessments would be carried out early in the project implementation period.
Their results would be widely disseminated among Mexico's renewable energy industry and incorporated
into the project's relevant activities.
5. Demonstration - US$18. 770 million (60% of totalproject cost)
This component would aim to reduce farmers' perceived risks in purchasing renewable energy systems
by installing demonstration units throughout the country, and thereby support replication among the
estimated 600,000 unelectrified livestock farms in the country. Preliminary and detailed investigation of
the market for farm-based renewable energy systems during project implementation will improve
estimates of the potential for replication.
The component's indicative investment plan provides for the installation of up to 1,150 solar-powered
water pumping systems in 28 states', up to 55 wind-powered water pumping systems in 15 states2 and up
to 24 solar-powered refrigerated milk storage tanks in 12 states3, or a total of up to 1,230 systems. Some
of the solar- and wind-powered pumping systems, and all of the solar-powered refrigerated milk storage
tanks, are expected to be purchased by groups of neighboring farmers. Depending on the actual demand
from farmers and the development of other applications for renewable energy in the sector, the final
investment plan will differ from this indicative plan.
The distribution of systems among unelectrified farms would be determined based on a) farmers'
demands (since Alianza is a demand-driven program) and b) FIRCO's application of pre-established
criteria such as location, income level and type of farm. The latter criteria will incorporate new
information from the market assessment on the potential market for farm-based renewable energy
systems on a state-by-state basis. GEF funds would be incorporated intoAlianza's cost sharing formula
in order to provide an additional subsidy to participating farmers, to mitigate the risk that they perceive in
purchasing a new and undemonstrated technology.
The investment plan is indicative because, under Alianza's demand-driven approach, it is farmers who
ultimately decide what investments take place. As such, it is impossible to determine at the outset exactly
' The 28 states that have not received more than one or two demonstration units under the USAID/USDOE-supported
Mexico Renewable Energy Program. Four states (Baja California Sur, Chihuahua, Quintana Roo and Sonora) have each
received between 14 and 34 demonstration units each through that program.
2 Where wind resources are considerable: Baja Califomia, Baja California Sur, Chiapas, Coahuila, Hidalgo, Michoacan,
Nuevo Leon, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosi, Oaxaca, Sonora, Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Yucatan and Zacatecas.
3 Where there is considerable dairy farming in unelectrified areas: Aguascalientes, Campeche, Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo,
Jalisco, Oaxaca, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosi, Tabasco, Tlaxcala and Veracruz.
Page 27



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                    Project Appraisal Document
how many systems of each type will be installed under the project. However, by intensifying or de-
intensifying the project's promotional activities on a regional and sub-regional basis, FIRCO will strive to
achieve a rational distribution of renewable energy systems throughout the country in order to maximize
their demonstration impact.
Eligibility criteria and operation procedures would be included in the Operational Manual. Key eligibility
criteria for participation in the demonstration component will be: a) renewable energy equipment
supported by the project must be part of a technically and economically sound investment project
financed by Alianza, as deemed by FIRCO; b) demonstration systems must be at least I km. from the
electrical grid and a minimum distance from similar demonstration systems (to be determined on a state
by state basis); c) beneficiaries must permit access to other producers wishing to view their demonstration
system; and d) a minimum quantity of water must be available under license year-round in the case of
water pumping systems.
This component would work in conjunction with the promotion and technical assistance components to
maximize the exposure of unelectrified farmers to the demonstration units. In avoiding the four states
where solar-powered pumps have already been substantially demonstrated under the USAID/USDOE-
supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program, the demonstration component does not overlap
geographically with the vendor financing component (see below).
6. TechnicalAssistance - US$4.919 million (16% of total project cost)
This component would have two aims: a) to ensure that renewable energy systems acquired under the
project's auspices operate in a satisfactory manner and b) to disseminate information about the successful
operation of the installed renewable energy systems among neighboring farmers.
The component would support the provision of technical assistance to farmers by renewable-energy
trained extensionists. Alianza already supports the provision of technical assistance to farmers by
extensionists who advise farmers on livestock care, crop management and other subjects.  The
Institutional Strengthening component would train these existing extensionists in renewable energy
systems. Using an innovative bonus scheme, extensionists would be rewarded based on the number of
renewable energy systems purchased by their assigned farmers. Extensionists would receive an annual
bonus of $140 per system installed by farmers that they support. This equals about 2.5 percent of their
annual salary and is therefore not expected to disrupt their provision of technical assistance on subjects
other than renewable energy systems. Extensionists would promote renewable energy systems among
unelectrified farmers and advise participating farmers on the operation of their renewable energy system.
Through their interactions with neighboring farmers, these extensionists would also disseminate
information on the successful operation of the demonstration renewable energy systems.
Since this component will be implemented under the auspices of theAlianza technical assistance program
which is implemented by SAGAR, a coordination agreement is required between FIRCO and SAGAR.
That agreement was secured in July 1999. This component would also be implemented in conjunction
with the technical assistance activities within the ALCAMPO project.
7. Vendor Financing - US$2.261 million (7% of total project cost)
The purpose of this component would be to establish a pilot scheme to test vendor financing of farm-
based renewable energy systems. Specifically, the pilot would consist of an innovative vendor financing
Page 28



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                  Project Appraisal Document
mechanism in the four states' where solar-powered pumps have already been substantially demonstrated
and vendors exist.
The component would assist the renewable energy industry's introduction of equipment leasing as a
financing mechanism for farm-based renewable energy systems, in order to fill the existing gap in
availability of lending services in rural areas where many banks and financial institutions have withdrawn
services, or are reluctant to establish new loan operations for productive purposes.
A newly created and industry-owned leasing company would lease farmers renewable energy systems.
Vendors would be partners of the company and would agree to purchase back those systems repossessed
due to loan defaults. The leasing company would finance with GEF support the balance of the system's
cost that is not covered by Alianza ( typically 60% of a capped initial value with 5/6 of that amount
provided by SAGAR and the remaining 1/6 provided by the relevant state) and the farmer's down-
payment (typically 10% of an uncapped initial value). The farmer's debt would include a surcharge on
the amount of the loan, to cover customary markup and a commission that would help finance the
operations of the leasing company and an insurance plan. The usual leasing period would be 36 months,
and the interest charged would be the inter-bank loan rate. Ownership of the system would remain with
the leasing company throughout the leasing period, and the producer would have the option of stopping
payments at any time, return the equipment to the leasing company and surrender final ownership of the
system. Monthly lease payments would be affordable given that only a fraction of the system's cost
would be financed. Defaults should be minimal due to the affordability of the payments, and given the
fact that those payments would count towards the purchase of the system and that the producer, with
support from Alianza, would already have contributed the major part of the system's cost at the beginning
of the operation.
This component will not overlap with the demonstration component, which would not support the
installation of renewable energy systems in these four states because many farmers are already aware of
the technology there.
8. Project Management - US$0.965 million (3% of total project cost)
FIRCO would execute the proposed project, using a Project Coordination Unit or team (PCO) in its
Mexico City headquarters and a network of staff in each of its state offices. The PCO would be
responsible for overall execution of the project, including:
* coordination of all project activities;
* periodic progress reporting;
* management of disbursements and financial control procedures;
* coordination of annual audits, to be carried out by external auditors selected by Mexico's
Secretariat of Administrative Control (SECODAM);
* coordination with SAGAR on Alianza- and ALCAMPO-related issues; and
* monitoring of project indicators and coordination of evaluation activities.
The PCO would be directly responsible for execution of six project components (promotion, institutional
strengthening, specifications and certification, market development, vendor financing and project
management), and would receive support as needed from FIRCO's state offices. The demonstration and
technical assistance components would be delegated to state offices, which would receive implementation
support from the PCO.
'Baja California Sur, Sonora, Chihuahua and Quintana Roo.
Page 29



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                       Project Appraisal Document
FIRCO would organize an annual national seminar as a forum for the project team to review progress iP
project implementation and address any necessary changes in the project's activities or operating -
procedures.
FIRCO would also implement a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation program (detailed in Annex
8).
Page 30



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local         Foreign        Total
--------------------- US$ '000 ----------------
1. Promotion                                               1,795           --         1,795
2. Institutional Strengthening                             1,565            --         1,565
3. Specifications and Certification                          270            --          270
4. Market Development                                        500          175           675
5. Demonstration                                          10,670        7,800         18,470
6. Technical Assistance                                    4,840            --        4,840
7. Vendor Financing                                        1,025        1,200         2,225
8. Project Management                                        950            --          950
Total Baseline Cost                                       21,615        9,175        30,790
Contingencies                                             350          150           500
Total Project Cost                                       $21,965       $9,325       $31,290
Page 31



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
Annex 4
Economic and Financial Analysis
(1999 US$ million)
Present Value of Flows      Fiscal Impact
Economic   Financial    Taxes'    Subsidies2
Analysis    Analysis
Benefits                 51.9        51.9        1.6         13.7
Costs                    26.2        19.7
Net Benefits:             25.7       32.2
IRR:                     30.9%       39.9%
I Agricultural production is not subject to VAT in Mexico
2 Includes value of state and federal contributions to total project costs
Switching values of critical items:
Investment costs: 153%
Operating costs: 270%
Benefits:     -49%
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The project would provide technical and financial assistance to some 1,230 mostly small commercial
producers to carry out productive investments in new or improved production and marketing systems
based on the utilization of renewable energy (RE) technology, thus improving their competitiveness in an
increasingly open economy.
Economic benefits of the proposed project would be increased farmer incomes, derived from more
efficient agricultural production attained with lower CO2 emissions, through the use of more reliable and
more economical renewable energy systems, relative to conventional gasoline-powered systems. The
comparative analysis of life cycle costs for conventional energy powered equipment and renewable
energy powered equipment indicates that RE equipment is up to 40 percent less expensive to operate in
the long run and provides a financial rate of return on investment of 14% to 17% depending on farm size.
Market penetration, however, is low because RE equipment have up-front investment costs that are up to
four times higher than equivalent conventional equipment. The analysis of a sample of proposed
productive systems based on the use of RE powered equipment shows that small commercial farmers
would generate a significant increase in net sales. In most cases lower long run operating costs and
independence from geographical proximity to the electric grid allowed new, more efficient and profitable
production or marketing systems to be adopted.
Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be high, given the reliability of the systems promoted
along with the improvements in human capital through training, technical assistance, organization and
better access to project financial, marketing and technological services. About 62 percent of project
resources are likely to be channeled to productive investment demanded by beneficiaries, while an
additional 31 percent would be allocated to technical assistance and training of the target population and
to applied research. The combination of improved provision of production-related support services, and
Page 32



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
the assistance to decentralized management and administration of rural services is expected to increase
the effectiveness and efficiency of public expenditure.
As a result of project activities, small business and enterprises supplying RE systems are expected to
strengthen as the market for those systems and the provision of technical support establishes itself. The
project would also promote private sector participation in the provision of production support services,
particularly technical assistance to producers, which is expected to increase the impact of project-
financed on-farm investments.
The total cost of the Project, excluding farmers' contribution, is estimated at about US$24.4 million
(US$3 1.3 million' inclusive of farmers' contribution), or about US$6 millionper annum. Beneficiaries'
contribution would be about US$6.9 million (22%), with federal and state governments contributing
US$15.5 million, supported by a World Bank loan of about US$13.7 million. The GEF would contribute
about US$8.9 million.
Economic Analysis:
Economic return estimates were based on a sample of the investmnent subprojects to be implemented by
beneficiaries of the demonstration component, using data from the systems installed as part of the
USAIDIUSDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program. The impact of these investments on
agricultural productivity and farmers' income was analyzed with the help of farm models illustrative of
typical farming situations in the main agro-ecological zones of the country (see Table 1). Assumptions
regarding yield increases and herd expansion, where applicable, were conservative to reflect the risk-
minimizing production strategies that normally characterize small farrners. A summary of the main
characteristics and results of these farm models are presented in the table below. The results obtained from
each model were aggregated, according to their relative importance as indicated by the proposed
geographical distribution of demonstrative projects, to obtain an estimate of the component's likely overall
rate of return.
Table 1. Sample of Illustrative Models
Type of Model         Farm size  Investment    On-Farm Income     E.R.R.
w/o project  w/project
(ha)      (US$)      (US$)     (US$)       (%/0)
Livestock production             _____
Model 1 - Arid & semi-arid areas  3,000   20,250      12,400    24,400      44
|Model 2 - Temperate areas        900      19,500      6,000    11,100      19
Model 3 - Tropical areas          230      15,000      5,200    12,300      35
Economic return calculations included the cost of incremental on-farm productive investment and
recurrent expenditure for the adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems promoted under the
project, incremental technical assistance to farmers and a share of institutional strengthening and project
administration costs. The benefits considered included increased production - or improved sale prices
where applicable -- and lower farm costs. Excluded from the economic analysis were the costs of the
promotion, market development, certification and vendor financing components since their impact would
be difficult to quantify and, in any case, would be available not only to demonstration component
beneficiaries but to the farming community at large. The discount rate was assumed to be 12 percent.
Under these assumptions, the internal economic rate of return was estimated at 30.9 percent. However, as
calculated, this rate of return reflects only the direct benefits stemming from the productive investments
Page 33



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
supported by the demonstration component and made possible by the adoption of RE systems. It does not
capture the positive externalities the project is designed to create, such as lower emissions of greenhouse
gases.
Pricing Assumptions:
Price contingencies were excluded and base costs plus physical contingencies less taxes were used for
the IERR. Given the policy reforms and the opening of the economy of the last decade, the rate of
exchange of the Mexican Peso is currently determined in the open market and trade restrictions have
been gradually lowered and domestic prices tend to correspond much closer to border economic values.
For the purposes of economic analysis, border prices were estimated for main tradables produced by
the project and imported machinery. A conversion factor of 0.90 was used for the rest of tradable,
machinery and other inputs. While the project would increase on-farmn and off-farm employment, it
would not have an impact on unemployment and under-employment due to its scale. Thus, the shadow
price for unskilled labor was estimated at 80 percent of the net market wage rate.
Sensitivity Analysis:
Analyses performed to measure the sensitivity of the IERR to the estimated benefits and costs of the
productive investrnent activities indicated that if benefits were to fall by 10 percent from their expected
estimates, the IERR would be 27.6 percent. Similarly, were investment costs to exceed their expected
values by 10 percent, the IERR would be 28.4 percent. Finally, if both situations were to occur
simultaneously, the IERR would fall to 24.8 percent, and would still be 16.4% were benefits to fall by
25% and costs increase by 25% simultaneously. Were the stream of benefits to occur one year later
than expected, the IERR would be 24.2 percent. These results indicate that the net benefits derived
from the productive investments are very stable, However, financial returns on the full costs (without
any subsidies) of replacing RE systems for non RE ones are quite sensitive, falling below 12% as a
result of changes as low as 15% in costs.
Financial Analysis:
The financial analysis was carried out to assess the financial viability of the productive investments
supported by the demonstration activities. As was to be expected, given the level of subsidy provided to
the various on-farm investrnents under the project, the production systems models analyzed showed
relatively high financial rates of return. Increases in farmers' income, as a result of project-financed on-
farm investment, ranged from about 85 percent to 190 percent at full development. The results obtained
from individual productive investment models were aggregated, using the same aggregation criteria used
for the economic analysis, to calculate the overall financial rate of return of the project, which was
estimated at 39.9 percent. These calculations included the cost to the farmer of incremental on-farm
investment and recurrent expenditure plus the incremented cost of the project's technical assistance and
institutional strengthening components, including the project administration. Input and output prices
were assumed constant, as was the real exchange rate, throughout the 20-year time horizon used in the
financial analysis. The discount rate was assumed to be 12 percent.
At 40 percent, the expected rate of return enjoyed by participating farmers is quite high, and begs the
question why Alianza and GEF assistance is required to purchase the renewable energy systems. The
answer to this question has two parts.
First, it is important to note that this rate of return is produced by two separate effects of the systems: a) a
Page 34



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
decrease in operating and maintenance costs, mostly due to the elimination of fuel costs and b) an
increase in production associated with limited irrigation that is made possible by the renewable energy
systems. On this latter point, the high fuel and operating costs of gasoline-powered pumps causes
farmers to limit their use to watering livestock only. In contrast, the very low (practically zero) operating
costs of solar- and wind-powered pumps permit farmers to not only water their livestock but irrigate a
small parcel of land (e.g. 0.5 - 2 ha). On this land farmers are able to grow forage or vegetables for their
own consumption or for market.
Second, and more importantly, it is important to remember that the systems installed by this project are
demonstration systems that are intended to introduce neighboring farmers to this new technology.
Despite their high financial return, farmers will not invest in renewable energy systems due to high
perceived risk. The farmers targeted by this project live in isolated, largely unelectrified areas throughout
the country's 32 states and are rarely exposed to new technologies. They need to see new technologies in
successful operation before they will consider investing in them. Participating farmers receive a limited
windfall associated with the additional GEF contribution but this is necessary in order to get the systems
into the field where they can have a demonstration impact.
Fiscal Impact:
The project would be implemented under the Alianza para el Campo Program. The total cost of the
Project, excluding farmers' contribution, is estimated at about US$20 million, or about US$5 millionper
annum, of which roughly close to one half would come from federal sources and the state governments.
The proposed project would support ongoing SAGAR programs and would operate within the existing
budget allocation of SAGAR and the state governments, and will not generate additional budgetary
financial requirements for the Federal Government beyond the annual amounts in matching-grants
already foreseen in SAGAR's budget for these programs. Productive investment and expenditure directly
benefiting farmers (i.e., technical assistance and training) account for nearly 78 percent of total project
cost. Incremental tax revenues accrued to the Federal Government as a result of project activities would
be negligible as sales of goods and services in the agricultural sector are exempt from the Value Added
Tax (IVA). Income tax revenues from incremental profitability of on-farm production would be
negligible given the level of income of the target population. Consequently, the fiscal impact of the
project would also be negative, but it would be below the lev'el of the current Alianza Programs, given the
revenues from taxes on imported equipment, that would amount to approximately US$ 1.6 million. State
governments derive the bulk of their budgetary resources from federal transfers as they cannot retain tax
revenues. Consequently, financial sustainability of the states' contribution to project-financed activities
would depend on the resource allocation criteria applied by various state governments rather than on their
budget allocation.
Page 35



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                          Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$ '000)
Implementation Period
2000       2001        2002       2003         Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs     6,900       9,900       7,500       6,025      30,325
Recurrent Costs        190         190         292        293         965
Total              7,090      10,090       7,792      6,318      31,290
Financing Sources
Beneficiaries         1,377       2,290      1,790       1,438       6,895
Government             605         445         375        375        1,800
IBRD                 2,660       4,583       3,589       2,863      13,695
GEF                  2,448       2,772       2,038       1,642       8,900
Total              7,090      10,090       7,792      6,318      31,290
Page 36



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                    Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6
Incremental Cost Analysis
Broad Development Goals
The Government aims to reduce rural poverty by increasing agricultural productivity and production
through investment in farm equipment and infrastructure and improved support services in the agriculture
sector, including the electrification of unelectrified farms.
Baseline
The baseline is characterized by a continuation of the Alianza para el Campo program and the
participation of the Trust Fund for Shared Risk (FIRCO) within that program, whereby farmers receive
financial and technical assistance in their acquisition of energy-consuming equipment. In eight of the
country's 32 states, FIRCO would continue to integrate renewable energy into these operations with
limited financial and technical assistance from the USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy
Program. Sustainable demand for farm-based renewable energy systems would likely not develop due to
the persistence of several barriers.
Barriers to Renewable Energy
The barriers impeding penetration of renewable energy technologies in Mexico's agriculture sector
include: a) the lack of awareness among unelectrified farmers regarding renewable energy technologies;
b) farmers' perception of renewable energy technologies as risky, simply because they are novel; c) a
lack of trained technicians and vendors that can design, install and service renewable energy systems and
agricultural extensionists that can advise farmers on their proper operation; d) uncertainty regarding the
potential market for renewable energy in the agricultural sector and potential applications of renewable
energy technologies on farms, e) the high initial cost of renewable energy systems, relative to
conventional alternatives, coupled with deficient rural finance services that prevent farmers from
financing their higher initial cost over time'; and f) the lack of technical specifications and certification
processes for renewable energy equipment.
Global Environmental Objective
The proposed project's global environmental objectives are a) to promote the use of renewable energy for
productive purposes in Mexico's agriculture sector by removing barriers and reducing implementation
costs and b) to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the agriculture sector.
GEF Alternative
The GEF alternative would build the capability of FIRCO and the private sector to promote and provide
renewable energy systems to farmers and greatly expand the scale of FIRCO's activities in this area. A
promotion campaign would build awareness of renewable energy systems and their operational benefits
among unelectrified farmers throughout the country. Approximately 1,230 renewable energy systems
would be installed in all 32 states as demonstration units, including up to 1,150 solar-power water
pumping systems, 55 wind-powered water pumping systems and 24 solar-powered refrigerated milk
' Renewable energy systems (and specifically solar- and wind-powered water pumping systems and solar-powered
refrigerated milk storage tanks) are substantially more expensive to purchase then conventional, gasoline-powered systems
but are less costly on a life-cycle basis.
Page 37



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                    Project Appraisal Document
storage tanks. Other types of renewable energy systems may be installed based on the results of the
market and technology assessments. Participating farmers would receive technical assistance to ensure
that their renewable energy systems operate properly for several years. An estimated 2,500 government
and private sector technicians, agricultural extensionists and equipment vendors would receive training in
the design, installation, operation and maintenance of farm-based renewable energy systems. The results
of renewable energy market and technology assessments would be disseminated among Mexico's
renewable energy industry. Vendor financing of farm-based renewable energy systems would be tested
in four states where these systems have already been demonstrated and vendors exist. Technical
specifications and certification procedures would be introduced for renewable energy equipment and
service providers, thereby improving consumer confidence in the technology.
An important aim of the GEF alternative would be to achieve reductions in the price of farm-based
renewable energy systems by initiating markets and creating competition among local vendors. The
ongoing USAID/USDOE-supported Mexico Renewable Energy Program has demonstrated the potential
for this price reduction impact. In that case, the program supported the installation of 15 to 35 solar-
powered water pumping systems in each of four states between 1995 and 1997.' During that time, the
average installed cost of PV pump systems decreased by 33 percent, from $24.70 to $16.60 per peak
watt. The Program's managers suggest three factors are largely responsible for this price reduction:
* Increased competition: The number of vendors of PV water pumping systems in each state increased
in response to the Program, thereby creating more competition that forced prices downwards.
Increased design capabilities among vendors: Initially, vendors with no experience in PV systems had
their wholesalers design the individual systems. Wholesalers included the cost of this design service
in their wholesale price. Once vendors gained some experience with the systems, they began to design
them themselves at a lower overall cost. In addition, since they did not visit the individual farms,
wholesalers based in Mexico City or Monterrey typically oversized the systems in order to ensure that
they operated correctly in the field. Vendors were able to size the systems more appropriately since
they had first-hand experience with the site conditions and water requirements of each farm.
- Increased confidence amnong vendors: Through their experience with the initial systems, the
confidence of vendors in PV water pumping systems increased, leading them to reduce their margin
for warranty service.
By initiating and expanding markets in the country's other 28 states, the GEF alternative is expected to
generate price reductions there, although they may not be as great as those generated by the
USAID/USDOE-supported program to the extent that the latter has generated permanent price reductions
at the national level.
Scope of the Analysis
The analysis encompasses the national agriculture sector.
One or two systems were also installed in each of four other states as part of training programs.
Page 38



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
Costs
Demonstration Component
Under the baseline scenario, farmers would acquire conventional farm equipment with a matching grant from
Alianza. Under the GEF alternative, farners would acquire renewable energy-powered equipment at an
additional cost.
In the case of solar-powered pumping systems, an average' conventional system would cost $950 while an
average solar system would cost $7,750, representing an additional cost of $6,800. Under its established cost-
sharing formula, Alianza would cover $4,650 of the solar system's cost, which includes an extra 10% subsidy
for renewable energy equipment. Farmers would contribute an extra $300 over the baseline, resulting in an
outstanding additional cost of $2,325 to be paid by the GEF, representing 30% and 34% of the system cost and
additional cost, respectively.
In the case of wind-powered pumps, a larger system is assumed based on the economics of wind-powered
pumps. This larger pump would serve several farmers. An average conventional system would cost
$3,800 while an average wind-powered system would cost $15,000, representing an additional cost of
$11,200. Under its established cost-sharing formula, Alianza would cover $9,000 of the wind-powered
system's cost, which includes an extra 10% subsidy for renewable energy equipment. Farmers would
contribute 20 percent less than the baseline, given the higher risk associated with their reliance on a new and
undemonstrated technology. This would result in an outstanding additional cost of $4,500 to be paid by the
GEF, representing 30% and 40% of the system cost and additional cost, respectively.
In the case of solar-powered refrigerated milk storage tank systems, a conventional system would cost
$29,000 while a solar-powered system would cost $64,000, representing an additional cost of $35,000.
Alianza would cover $12,800 of the solar system's cost while a group of investing farmers would contribute
$22,400, leaving an outstanding additional cost of $28,800 to be paid by the GEF, representing 45% and 82%
of the system cost and additional cost, respectively. This cost-sharing formula reflects the impact of absolute
limits on Alianza funding for any one subproject due to the high cost of these tank systems, with the result that
farmers are required to contribute a greater share of the system cost than for pumping systems (35% vs. 10%).
However, it is expected that farmers will be able to afford this greater share since it would be spread among a
group of farmers, each of whom would be better able to contribute their individual share.
In the case of other types of renewable energy systems, similar cost analysis will be performed by FIRCO
and a cost-sharing formula developed that is agreeable to the Bank.
Baseline investment costs would be $9.3 million, while the GEF alternative would cost $18.8 million,
representing an increment of $9.5 million. Alianza and farmers would absorb $5.7 million (60%) of this
increment, leaving $3.8 million (40%) to be covered by the GEF.
Technical Assistance Component
Under the baseline scenario, farmers and Alianza would co-fund agricultural extension services totaling
$4.5 million over four years. These extensionists would advise farmers on a full range of farming
activities, but would have no expertise in renewable energy systems.
'System costs vary with the depth of the well, or head.
Page 39



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                      Project Appraisal Document
Under the GEF alternative, these extensionists would be trained in renewable energy systems and apply this
knowledge to their work with participating farmers that acquired renewable energy systems. The additional
time consumed in examining and testing renewable energy systems and advising farmers on their proper
operation would bring the total cost for extension services to $4.9 million, representing an increment of
$434,000.
Other Components
Under the baseline scenario, FIRCO would mobilize $3.0 million in cash and in-kind resources for renewable
energy-related activities in promotion, institutional strengthening, market development, vendor financing,
specifications/certification and project management
Under the GEF alternative, these activities would be greatly expanded to reach the entire country and to
permanently remove barriers.  The total cost of these activities would amount to $7.6 million,
representing an increment of $4.6 million.
Summary
The baseline scenario would cost $16.73 million, comprising investment ($9.3 million), technical assistance
($4.5 million), and other barrier removal activities ($3.0 million). The GEF Alternative would cost $31.29
million, with the corresponding component costs estimated at: (a) $18.8 million, (b) $4.9 million, and (c) $7.6
million, respectively. The incremental cost would therefore be $14.56 million, of which GEF is requested to
provide $8.9 million in incremental cost funding (see matrix attached).
Page 40



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                         Project Appraisal Document
Incremental Cost Matrix
Baseline          GEF Alternative             Incremental
Domestic Benefits       Given level of        Inproved level of energy  Improvement in level of
energy service       service provided to       energy service provided to
provided to remote   unelectrified farmers.    unelectrified farmers
farmers.             Removal of information,   Barriers removed
perceived risk, human    Improved government and
capacity and consumer    private sector services
confidence barriers.
Improved government
and private sector
capability to support
electrification of farms
with renewable energy.
Global Environmental    GHG emissions      No GHG emissions.         6,000 tonnes of carbon
Beneflts                associated with the                          emissions avoided annually
provision of energy                         through demonstration units
services using
gasoline or grid-                           730,000 tonnes avoided
connected                                   annually with penetration of
electricity.                                renewable energy systems
among one third of Mexico's
estimated 600,000
unelectrified farms within 10
years.
Costs (US$ '000)
1. Promotion                     526                  1,824                   1,298
2. Inst'l strengthening          292                   1,590                  1,298
3. Spec's and certification       63                    275                    212
4. Market development             24                    686                    662
5. Demonstration               9,280                  18,770                 9,490
6. Technical assistance        4,485                  4,919                    434
7. Vendor financing             1,625                 2,261                    636
8. Project management            435                    965                    530
TOTAL                        $16,730                $31,290                $14,560
GEF contribution                                                             $8,900
Alianzalfarmers contribution to demonstration component                      $5,660
Page 41



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
Annex 7
Environmental Assessment
The project generally involves the same environmnental issues as ALCAMPO, therefore all relevant
environmental provisions of the ALCAMPO manual would be incorporated in the project's manual.
Consequently, the only remaining environmental issues are those specifically related to the use of
renewable energy technologies - environmental benefits and negative environmental impacts.
Environmental Benefits
Global environmental benefits include avoided greenhouse gas emissions from gasoline-powered or grid-
connected systems that would be substituted with solar- and wind-powered systems. It is anticipated that
the demonstration and vendor financed systems installed by the project would abate roughly 6,000 metric
tonnes of carbon per year, or roughly 120,000 metric tonnes over the 20 year life span of the renewable
energy systems. More importantly, the project would catalyze a national market for farm-based
renewable energy systems among Mexico's estimated 600,000 unelectrified livestock farms. It is
expected that the project would catalyze the penetration of renewable energy systems among one-third of
the country's unelectrified farms within ten years, a development that would avoid an estimated 0.73
million metric tonnes of carbon annually.
Local environmental benefits include reductions in air, water and soil pollution through the substitution of
renewable energy systems for gasoline-powered systems. These local benefits have not been estimated,
in part because renewable energy systems are financially and economically viable without the addition of
these benefits and in part because the local benefits would likely be small given that they would occur in
marginal areas of rural Mexico with a low density of contaminating energy sources and relatively high
pollutant absorptive or dispersal capacity.
Negative Environmental Impacts
While this project would support the purchase and installation of water pumping equipment, depletion of
groundwater resources is not a concern because the solar- and wind-powered pumping systems to be
installed under the project are too small to pose a threat to these resources.
The only potentially negative environmental issue associated specifically with the project's renewable
energy systems relates to inappropriate disposal of used batteries from some solar applications. The
potential severity of this issue hinges on the number of battery-powered systems installed by the project,
the battery life affecting the rate of discard, and the opportunities and constraints in heightening the
awareness of farmers and vendors on the importance of recycling.
With respect to the total number of batteries involved, the project expects to install roughly 1,230
renewable energy systems throughout the country over a four-year period (2000-2003). Of these,
roughly 1,050 would be solar-powered pump systems with no battery requirement, 55 would be wind-
powered pump systems with no battery requirement and 24 would be solar-powered refrigerated milk
storage tanks or other farm equipment (e.g. milking machines) that may or may not require batteries.
Uncertainty concerning the latter systems' use of batteries is due to the fact that their final design is not
yet complete and some options do not involve batteries. In sum, no more than three percent of the
renewable energy systems installed by the project are expected to employ batteries. Applying this
proportion to expected post-project replication (200,000 systems over ten years) yields a projected
increase of 6,000 batteries nationally.
Page 42



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
In order to put the above figures in perspective with respect to the potential for significant environmental
damage, the experience of promoting solar home systems in Mexican rural areas in the decade of the
1990s provides some insights. During this period about 100,000 solar home systems, each employing
one battery, were installed through various govemment programs, including 60,000 systems under the
PRONASOL program. The latter program was poorly executed and it is estimated that up to 50 percent
of the systems may have been abandoned, suggesting a high rate of battery discard. A recent evaluation
of the program in three states (Hidalgo, Campeche and Quintana Roo) raised questions on battery
recycling but found no evidence of negative environmental impacts. Battery recycling has clearly been
difficult to implement in rural communities. It will be even more complicated in widely dispersed
agricultural uses with difficult access.
The above experience, combined with the enormous challenge faced by Mexico in disposing of millions
of spent batteries per year suggests a) that the incremental load imposed by the project will be
insignificant and b) that any effort to recycle batteries under the project would only be meaningful within
a wider regulated and/or market-driven recycling system.
On the question of battery life, the project will emphasize installation of quality systems, e.g. deep cycle
batteries, sound operating procedures and good maintenance. As a result, average battery life is expected
to exceed ten years, relative to the current average of two years for the regular lead car batteries in
standard use on farms. Therefore, to the extent that solar-powered batteries replace others, the number of
batteries discarded on project farms (or those replicating the systems) should be significantly reduced.
In spite of the apparent disinterest in Mexico in potential harmful effects from inappropriate battery
disposal, as implied above, the project will take active steps to mitigate potential environmental damage
which may be attributable to large-scale replication of solar energy systems deriving from the
demonstration exercise. The technician training program will include information on proper battery
issue and disposal. In addition, the support components of the project - notably certification, market
development and vendor financing - will emphasize equipment, installation, operation and maintenance
of systems which reduce the rate at which batteries are discarded.
Page 43



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                   Project Appraisal Document
Annex 8
Monitoring and Evaluation Program
A: Operational Arrangements
In order to support adequate supervision of project implementation progress in relation to agreed overall goals
and annual targets, as well as an assessment of the project's impact on beneficiaries and the economy, a
comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Program would be implemented by FIRCO.
Information on agreed indicators (see Table 1) would be collected by FIRCO staff at headquarters and in state
offices, as well as by participating extensionists that would be in direct contact with participating farmers.
FIRCO would ensure that these extensionists carefully collect the required information and monitor their
respective performances in project implementation.
FIRCO's module within ALCAMPO's centralized management information system (MIS) would be expanded
to help collect and process data on the project's physical and financial progress as well as its impacts. As an
add-on to ALCAMPO's MIS, it would inherit the latter's main features. These include taking advantage of
existing communications infrastructure and capabilities to allow close to real time data recording and
processing of information through a centralized data storage location with decentralized data input and access
features.
B: Conceptual Basis
The structure of the project's MIS would be based on two different modules: one devoted to physical and
financial monitoring and another to performance evaluation. The system would allow FIRCO to record and
process information from different sources on the set of indicators needed by the M&E system to achieve its
objectives. These indicators would be divided into five categories: input, output, outcome, process and impact,
thus providing the conceptual basis for the M&E framework. Monitoring of physical and financial
implementation performance would be based on the first two groups of indicators while impact evaluation
would focus mostly on the last three categories.
C: Evaluation
FIRCO would coordinate evaluation of the project's implementation performance and development impact, to
be conducted by independent entities with nationwide experience using standard evaluation procedures. The
evaluation process would encompass three different studies: a) a baseline study at project initiation (to be
integrated with the market assessment) to determine the initial status of project beneficiaries and market
indicators; b) a mid-term evaluation at the end of the second year of implementation to permit an assessment of
the any required corrections in project implementation; and c) a final project evaluation at the end of the
implementation period to evaluate the project's development impact.
Evaluation of the project's development impact would focus on changes in selected indicators, such as (i)
prices and sales of farm-based renewable energy systems, (ii) avoided greenhouse gas emissions and (iii)
participating farmers' income. Input data for project evaluation would come from continuous evaluation and
periodic surveys to be implemented in conjunction with the three evaluations. Continuous evaluation would be
closely associated with the monitoring system and would track a selected set of indicators of "potential
development" based on known relationships between activities' outputs and development impacts. A list of
performance indicators is provided in Table 1.
Page 44



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                    Project Appraisal Document
D: Reports
FIRCO would be responsible for the preparation of the following reports:
Annual budget and work plan. Annual plans would be produced describing all project activities to be done in
the subsequent year along with their corresponding budgets.
Semi-annual progress reports. Semi-annual progress reports with a format and coverage acceptable to the
Bank would cover all project activities in the previous six months. The reports would document progress in
project implementation in both physical and financial terms, based on the relevant performance indicators. One
of the two-semi-annual reports would provide an overview of the preceding 12 months and a summary of
performance indicators, a statement on the status of compliance with procedures outlined in the Operational
Manual and analyses and recommendations relevant for optimizing project implementation.
Mid-term evaluation. A mid-term evaluation of the project would be undertaken to evaluate a) overall progress
in project implementation, b) achievement of expected results and c) the need and measures to reorient project
implementation as necessary.
Page 45



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                            Project Appraisal Document
Table 1
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicator                                       Unit      Component
-7                 ~~~~~~~1
INPUTS
Train-the-trainers courses held                                              _      _IS
Technician courses held                                                            #            IS
Company courses held                                                                            iS
National workshops held                                                            #             IS
Regional workshops held                                                            #             IS
Pamphlets/brochures produced                                                       #             P
Posters produced                                                                                 P
Radio messages produced                         -_#                                              P
Videos produced                                                                                  P
Technical brochures produced                                  -                                  P
Demonstration days held                                                            #             P
Farmer workshops held                                                              e             P
Fairs/exhibitions attended by RE booth/display                                                   P
Sub-project requests submitted                                                                   D
Visits to farmers by RE-trained extensionists                                      #            TA
Market assessment completed                                                                _    MD
Copies of market assessment report or summary distributed                                       MD
Technical studies completed                                                                     MD
Copies of technical study report or summary distributed                            #            MD
Specifications issued                                                                           S SC
Certification program initiated                                                                 SC
National project coordination unit formed                                                       PM
Project progress reports produced                                                  #            PM
Monitoring system initiated                                                                     ME
OUTP UTS
Trainers trained                                                                   i            is
FIRCO technicians trained, by state                                                             IS
Vendor technicians trained, by state                                               #             IS
Other organization technicians trained, by state                                   #             IS
Extensionists trained, by state                                                    #             IS
Acronyms:
PW - Project-wide
IS - Institutional Strengthening
P -  Promotion
MD - Market Development
SC - Specifications and Certification
D - Demonstration
TA - Technical Assistance
VF - Vendor Financing Pilot
PM - Project Management
ME - Monitoring and Evaluation
RE - Renewable energy
Page 46



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                            Project Appraisal Document
Total technicians and extensionists trained, by state                             #             IS
Vendor managers trained                                                           #             IS
National workshop participants                                                                  IS
Regional workshop participants                                                     #            IS
Pamphlets/brochures distributed      ____#                                                       P
Posters distributed                                                                              p
Radio message airings                                                              #             P
Video cassettes distributed                                                                      P
Technical brochures distributed                                                    #             P
Demonstration day participants                                                                   P
Fair/exhibition attendees                                                                        P
PV pumps installed and operating correctly                                         #            D
PV electric fences installed and operating correctly                               #             D
Wind pumps installed and operating correctly                                       #            D
PV refrigerated tanks installed and operating correctly                            #             D
Other RE systems installed and operating correctly                                 #             D
Total RE systems installed and operating correctly                                               D
Subsistence farmners participating                                               #,%             D
Semi-commercial farmers participating                                            #,%            D
Commercial fanners participating                                                 #,_%            D
States with demonstration systems                                                                D _ _D
Certified technicians, by affiliation'                                                          SC
Certified vendors                                                                               SC
Certified installations of RE systems, by type                               _                  SC
Farmers receiving advice from RE-trained extensionists                                          TA
Vendors trained in vendor financing                                                             VF
RE systems purchased with vendor financing                                                      VF
Proportion of project-supported RE systems purchased with vendor financing        %             VF
Value of vendor financing issued to farmers                                                     VF
Proportion of issued vendor financing in default                                  %             VF
Revolutions of vendor financing revolving fund (if employed)                       #            VF
Additional training sessionsecourses delivered by trainers or trained technicians  #            IS
Sub-projects rejected due to failure to meet specifications                      #%             SC
Proportion of trained technicians that received certification e                                IS, SC
Change in proportion of fanners that are aware of RE technologies'2                           P, D, TA
New agriculture sector RE applications commercialized                                           MD
Types of RE technology applications demonstrated (with 100% financing)             #D
Gasoline-powered pumps replaced by RE-powered pumps                              #, hpD
Traditional-charged batteries replaced by PV-charged batteries for electric fences  #, V         D
REP-powered pumps irrigating land for forage production                           ,D
R E-powered pumps irrigating land for fruit and vegetable production               #D
Area irrigated with RE-powered pumps                                              Ha             D
Area enclosed by PV electric fences                                               Ha             D
Amount of marketed milk that is refrigerated using RE systems                    Litres          D
Amount of marketed milk that is milked mechanically using RE systems             Litres          D
Average level of satisfaction with RE systems among participating farmers         %              D
'Government, vendor or extensionist
2 Measured by survey at least three times: at project initiation, at mid-term and at project end.
For example, RE-powered refrigerated tanks, milking machines or feed mixers.
Page 47



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                         Project Appraisal Document
Proportion of participating farmers reporting dissatisfaction with RE systems  _             D
Proportion of participating farmers abandoning their RE systems           _      _D
Scheduled maintenance visits by vendors on project-supported RE systems   ___                D
Unscheduled maintenance visits by vendors on project-supported RE systems                    D
RE-trained extensionists registered by FIRCO                                   #            TA
Vendors selling RE systems for productive agricultural applications, by state               PW
Vendors offering financing to their customers for the purchase of RE systems for            VF
productive agricultural applications, by state
IMPACTS
RE systems for productive agricultural applications purchased with VF          %            VF
Change in average price of RE systems, by type                           -                  PW
National sales of RE systems for productive agricultural applications, by type1  #/yr, $/yr  PW
CO2 emissions avoided by project-supported RE systems                       Tonne/yr         D
CO2 emissions avoided nationally by RE systems in productive agricultural applications    Tonne/yr  PW
Change in average net income of participating farmers                        %, $/yr         D
Change in forage production among project-supported pumps                  DM/AU/yr          D
Change in fruit and vegetable production among project-supported pumps      Tonne/yr         D
'Measured by survey of vendors at least twice: at mid-term and at project end.
Page 48



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                    Project Appraisal Document
Annex 9
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
As executor of the Bank-supported Rainfed Areas Development Project, FIRCO is an ongoing Bank
client that is performing project administration activities in a satisfactory manner. The Bank expects
FIRCO to administer this project in a similarly satisfactory manner.
A detailed institutional (financial management) assessment to define specific requirements for project
administration would be finalized by appraisal. However, procurement and financial management
arrangements are expected to be the same as those utilized by the recently initiated ALCAMPO project
(Ln. 4428-ME). Those arrangements are detailed below.
Procurement
Procurement of equipment and goods financed by the project would be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). All consulting services to provide technical
assistance and training would be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (January 1997; revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Subprojects. Most of the equipment and goods to be procured under this project would be carried out
with direct participation and financial contribution of the beneficiaries, and implemented as part of the
Demonstration Component. Procurement would be carried out by the beneficiaries and payments made
through the state FIRCO office. Eligibility criteria and operation procedures would be included in the
Operational Manual. Given the remote and scattered location of beneficiaries, there is little competition
among contractors for these small projects, which would lead one to expect that formal bidding at
community level will not reduce cost given all the transaction costs involved. In this case, participation
substitutes for formal processes in ensuring cost-effectiveness. Consequently, simplified procurement
procedures, including the utilization of local shopping and direct contracting, will be utilized for projects.
The implementation of these procedures would require strong supervision on the part of FIRCO and its
state offices. As sole or joint implementing agency of other Bank supported projects, FIRCO has
developed sufficient capacity to meet the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements, as
verified by the preliminary capacity assessment performed at appraisal. At the national level, FIRCO
would have a qualified procurement officer familiar with Bank procurement rules that would be
responsible for organizing the supervision and monitoring of procurement activities at the state level. In
the state offices, there would be an Accounts Clerk, trained in handling the transfers of funds and in
reviewing bank statements, and a Procurement Clerk, who will be able to advise and assist beneficiaries
in procurement activities.
At the first national seminar (part of the Promotion Component), special attention would be given to
explain the project concept and the procedures for procurement and disbursement. The participants in the
seminar would include staff at various levels of project execution and not be limited to senior
management.. In addition, a special seminar for Procurement Clerks will be held in the Mexico resident
Mission to ensure adequate project implementation. The project's Operational Manual would be
reviewed at this seminar. As part of the ALCAMPO project, both national and state staff will have been
trained in the steps necessary to prepare, execute and monitor the new procurement and disbursement
systems, and state staff will have been trained to assist the beneficiaries in key elements of the subproject
cycle, including the preparation of subproject proposals.
Page 49



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                       Project Appraisal Document
Consultants. About US$1.1 million of consulting services would be procured by FIRCO utilizing the
Quality and Cost-Based Selection system (QCBS). Advance procurement procedures would be utilized
to facilitate project implementation, in particular the use of standard terms of reference for the contracting
of assignments of similar nature and scope (e.g. technical assistance for beneficiaries'). Draft standard
terms of reference will be agreed upon at negotiations and incorporate in the Operational Manual.
Bank Prior Review. The Bank would prior review contracts for the first five beneficiary sub-projects
under US$50,000 and contracts for all beneficiary sub-projects over this amount, as well as terms of
reference of individual consultants for assignments up to US$50,000 and all contracts for assignments
above this amount. In the case of consulting firms, the Bank would prior review terms of reference for
assignments up to US$100,000 and all contracts for assignments above this amount. In addition, prior
review would be required for assignments of a critical nature, such as the mid-term and final project
evaluations.
Procurement arrangements and prior review thresholds are summarized in Tables A and B, respectively.
The Project Procurement Plan would be agreed upon during negotiations and the final version would be
incorporated in the Operational Manual to be submitted to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness.
Disbursement
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): The Bank is examining the feasibility of implementing the
project under the terms of the Loan Administrative Change Initiative (LACI). Under LACI, use of SOE's
would be replaced by a system whereby disbursements would be granted to FIRCO or the executing
agency on the basis of a set of agreed-upon quarterly reports, detailing the financial, physical and
procurement activities (historical and planned) under the project.
Conversion to PMRs based disbursement is expected within the timing agreed for the Agricultural
Productivity Project, this implementation period is based on the close coordination between both agencies
on the MISs. During the transition period, disbursements would be based on traditional procedures, using
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for training expenditures (not covered by consultant fees), subprojects
and consultants contracts not subject to Bank prior procurement review.
Consequently FIRCO should adhere all procedures to Bank requirements under this disbursement
methodology. Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained by FIRCO at the central level and by
FIRCO's delegations in every state, and made available for examination by Bank staff or the auditors as
requested
Should SOE disbursement procedures be employed, financial reporting would be carried out by the
FIRCO office in each state, including the preparation of SOE's. FIRCO would consolidate financial
reports at the central level for transmission and review by the Bank. The financial management,
accounting system and internal controls are already in place as part of theAlianza program and are being
utilized by FIRCO for the Rainfed Areas Development Project. They have been operating satisfactorily.
An action plan would be developed during project implementation by FIRCO, in coordination with Bank
financial management staff, to adjust the current management information system and enable the regular
production of new Project Management Reports (PMRs). Once the Bank confirms FIRCO's capacity to
' These terms of reference will be a revised version of the standard terms of reference already in place for the ALCAMPO
project. The revision will insert additional responsibilities for extensionists corresponding to their promotion of renewable
energy systems and their provision of support to farmers acquiring these systems.
Page 50



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                   Project Appraisal Document
generate quarterly reports that are filly consistent with LACI principals, the project would be considered
by the Bank for full conversion to LACI-style disbursements. Conversion would require a request by the
Grant Recipient and approval by the Bank's Loan Department.
Resources and mechanisms to permit financial monitoring and reporting of project activities would be in
place prior to effectiveness.
Special account: In order to facilitate project implementation, the GOM would establish a special
account in US Dollars at the Central Bank with an authorized allocation and initial advance of
US$750,000, (or US$1,780,000 if withdrawals are made on the basis of PMRs) corresponding to the
average of four months of expenditures that are expected to be made from the account. The
replenishment application will be supported by the required/agreed documentation. The Special Account
would be audited in conjunction with the annual financial audit of the project.
Page 51



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                          Project Appraisal Document
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
In US$ '000 equivalent, including contingencies.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the GEF grant.
Expenditure Category                          Procurement Method                Total Cost
ICB   NCB   QCBS or  OTHER
Individual
1. Works
None
2. Goods
Equipment                                                        20,861.6*       20,861.6*
(4,360.0)       (4,360.0)
3. Services
Promotion materials & services                        1,824.1                     1,824.1
(1,297.9)                   (1,297.9)
Training services                                     1,590.4                     1,590.4
(1,297.9)                   (1,297.9)
Extensionist services                                 4,918.6                     4,918.6
(434.4)                     (434.4)
Consulting services (market                           1,129.9                     1,129.9
development, spec's and                                (980.0)                     (980.0)
certification, vendor financing)
4. Miscellaneous
Project administration                                  965.4                       965.4
(529.8)                     (529.8)
Total                                             10,428.4   20,861.6         31,290.0
(4,540.0)   (4,360.0)       (8,900.0)
* Procurement to be carried out by beneficiaries. Fifty to sixty percent of the total cost would be contributed by Alianza via Ln.
4428-ME.
Page 52



Mexico. Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                   Project Appraisal Document
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category                                   Method              Prior Review
(US$ '000)
1. Beneficiary               <50                Community          First 5 subprojects
Subprojects                              participation, such as
through Direct
Contracting
(Reference Prices)
2 50                 NCB                   All
2. Services
(a) Individuals              <50                 TOR, CV                 TOR
2 50                QCBS                   All
(b) Firms                    < 100                QCBS                   TOR
> 100                QCBS                   All
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount of the GEF   % of Expenditures to
Trust Fund Grant      be Financed
Allocated
(Expressed in SDR)
(1)    Solar-powered or wind-powered water     2,103,000               30%
pumping systems and installation thereof under
Part E of the Project
(2)    Solar-powered refrigerated milk storage   507,000               45%
tanks and installation thereof under Part E of the
Project
(3)    Solar-powered water pumping systems       362,000                30%
and installation thereof under Part G of the
Project
(4)    "Other equipment" and installation              0               30%
thereof under Part E of the Project
(5)    Training; promotion; consultants'       3,118,000               100%
services
(6)    Unallocated                               362,000
Page 53



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                              Project Appraisal Document
TOTAL          6,452,000
Page 54



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
Annex 10
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$1  I1,000
B. Project Schedule                           Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project            6 months              7 months
Identification mission                       Jan 1999              Jan 1999
Appraisal mission                            June 1999             July 1999
Negotiations                                 Sept 1999             Nov 1999
Planned date of effectiveness                Jan 2000
Prepared by: Trust Fund for Shared Risk (FIRCO)
Preparation assistance: Canadian consultant trust fund - US$61,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Michael Carroll                  Sr. AgriculturistlTask Team Leader
Alvaro Soler                      Agricultural Economist (Cons.)
John Duffy                     Renewable Energy Specialist (Cons.)
Christine Kimes                          GEF Coordinator
Ferenc Molnar                                Lawyer
Alberto Ninio                               Lawyer
Lea Braslavsky                        Procurement Specialist
Victor Ordofiez                         Financial Specialist
Michael Nelson                    Environmental Specialist (Cons.)
Charles Feinstein                          GEF Advisor
Chandra Shekhar Sinha                         GEF Advisor
Ranjinee Rudran                           Team Assistant
Patricia Soto                       Team Assistant (Mexico)
Arun Sanghvi                             Peer Reviewer
Fernando Manibog                            Peer Reviewer
Daniel Kammen                       GEF STAP Reviewer (Cons.)
Page 55



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                     Project Appraisal Document
Annex 11
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
FIRCO (1999), Manual de Operacion del Proyecto
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Kammen, Daniel (March 1999), GEF STAP Review Comments
Nelson, Michael (April 1999), Report on Environmental Aspects
Soler, Alvaro (July 1999), Economic and Financial Analysis
C. Other
Global Transition Consulting (June 1999), Componente de Financiamiento a Proveedores: Analisis y
Recomendaciones
Credit Partners (October 1999), Componente de Financiamiento
*Including electronic files.
Page 56



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                                                  Project Appraisal Document
Annex 12
Statement of Loans and Credits
As of 21-Jun-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                     ___________________________                               disbursements   a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 143
Active Projects
MX-PE-48505     1999   NAFIN                            AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                   444.45         0.00        0.00            444.45       36.14         0.00
MX-PE-7610      1999   BANOBRAS                          FOVI RESTRUCTURING                    505.05         0.00        0.00            505.05       88.39         0.00
MX-PE-40199     1998   MEXICAN GOVERNMENT                BASIC EDC. DEV.                        115.00        0.00        0.00            115.00        17.76        0.00
MX-PE-44531     1998   GOM                               KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.                    300.00         0.00        0.00            300.00       10.00         0.00
MX-PE-49895     1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               HIGHER ED. FINANCING                  180.20         0.00        0.00            180.20        14.03        0.00
MX-PE-55061     1998   BANOBRAS                          HLTH.SYSTEM REF. TA                     25.00        0.00        0.00             23.00         3.60        0.00
MX-PE-7711      1998   NAFIN                             RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA                    47.00        0.00        0.00             43.40        10.74        0.00
MX-PE-7720      1998   BANOBRAS                          HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM                  700.00         0.00        0.00            350.00         0.00        0.00
MX-PE-7700      1997   GOVT OF MEXICO                    COMMUNITY FORESTRY                     15.00         0.00        0.00             11.85         2.61        0.00
MX-PE-7726      1997   GOVERNMENT                       AQUACULTURE                              40.00        0.00        0.00             39.13         6.63        0.00
MX-PE-7732      1997   GOVERNMENT                        RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A.                    30.00        0.00        0.00             28.31       24.12         8.45
MX-PE-40685     1996   NACIONAL FINANCIERA (NAFI         INFRA. PRIVATZTN TA                     30.00        0.00        0.00             19.56        19.56        0.00
MX-PE-7689      1996   NAFIN                             BASIC HLTH II                          310.00        0.00        0.00            187.25        63.26       44.53
MX-PE-7713      1996   GOM                              WATER RESOURCES MANA                    186.50        0.00        0.00            156.53       30.61         0.00
MX-PE-34161     1995   NAFINSA                           FINANCIAL SEC T.A.                     37.40         0.00        0.00             10.78       -3.01        10.79
MX-PE-34490     1995   NAFIN                             TECH EDU/TRAING                       265.00         0.00       30.00            155.29      156.49          .95
MX-PE-7702      1995   SEDESOL                           SECOND DECENTRALZTN                    500.00        0.00        0.00            144.08      140.79        93.37
MX-PE-7612      1994   BANOBRAS                          SOLID WASTE II                        200.00         0.00      193.06               1.48       -4.46        1.35
MX-PE-7701      1994   NAFIN                             ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI                  200.00         0.00       30.00             72.03       84.52         8.69
MX-PE-7707      1994   BANOBRAS                         WATER/SANIT II                          350.00        0.00        0.00            171.67      171.65         0.00
MX-PE-7710      1994   BANOBRAS                          N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                  368.00         0.00      273.40             65.36      298.36        37.40
MX-PE-7725      1994   NAFIN                             PRIM.EDUC.II                           412.00        0.00       40.00            157.00       197.04       76.10
MX-PE-7648      1993   BANOBRAS                         MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                   200.00         0.00       23.00            115.70      118.31        20.74
MX-PE-7694      1993   NAFIN                             TRNSPRT AIRP POLL CON                  220.00        0.00       43.12             79.96       123.08       75.00
MX-PE-7723      1993   BANOBRAS                          HWY RHB E SAFETY                       480.00        0.00        0.00            123.59        38.92        0.00
MX-PE-7667      1992   NAFINSA                           IRRIG SCTR                             400.00        0.00       50.00             51.51      101.47         6.21
Total                                                                                        6,560.60         0.00      682.58          3,552.18   1,750.61        383.58
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               2,325.83          21,290.14           23,615.97
of which has been repaid:                 95.52           12,277.71           12,373.23
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               5,782.49           9,015.45           14,797.94
Amount sold                                       0.00               92.34               92.34
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               92.34               92.34
Total Undisbursed                :            3,552.18                2.99            3,555.17
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-May-99.
Page 57






Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                                                          Project Appraisal Document
Mexico at a glance
Latin    Upper.-
POVERTY and SOCIAL.                                           Amnerica   middle-            --     ---       -- 
Mexico   & Carib.  Income        Developmentcdiamrond*
1987
Population, mid-year (millions)                        94.8       494       571                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas methoct; US$)                   3,680      3,880     4,520
GNP2 (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     348.9      1,917     2,684
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population ()1.8                                                   1.7       1.5
Labor force (%v)                                        2.8        2.3       1 9     GNP            /Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991.97)                                capita                        enolment
Poverty (% of population bel ow national poverty line)
Urban populaton (% of total population)                  74        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         72        70        70I
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live birthis)               30        32        30                                                      J
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               14         .          ..Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   83        73        79
illiteracy (%q of population a ge 15+)                   10        13        is
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   115       1ll        107    I       Mexico
Male                                                  11           .         .              Upper-middle-Income grouip
Female                                                113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      11997
GDP (US$ billions)                            95.3    128.8      329.5     403.0     Eooi  ais
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 21,0    18.1        23.3      28.4
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP              7.0     17.4       32.5      30.2Trd
Gross domestic savings/GOPD                   18.8     22.0       25.4      25.4
Gross national savingslGDP                    16.5    117.4       22.7      24.5
Current account balance/GOP                   -3.7     -1.1I      -0.6      -1.8     Dmsi
Interest payments/GDP                          1.4      6.0        2.5       2.2                .      ~Investment               ......
Total debtVGDP                                25.1     78.3       47.7      37,3     Savings                       ~       ~
Total debt service/exports                    48.5     50.3       35.4      28.4
Present value of debt/GDP                       .         ,.      45.1
Present value of debt/exports                    .        ..     128.9                            Idbens
1976486  1987.97     1996       1997   1998-2
(average annual growth)
GOP                                   3.8      2.8      5.2        7.0       4.9         -Mexico
GNP per capita                        0.9      0.8      4.0        6.2       2.9Upe-id-ncegru
Exports of goods and services        10.3     11.1     18.2       13.0       7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                       ~~~~~ ~~~~1976  1986  1996     1997      G3rowth rtso  uptadIvsmn  %
Agriculture                                   10.2      9.0        6.1       5.8     40
Industry                                      29.8     33.9       28.4      28.3     20
Manufacturing                               21.5     24.7       21.5      21.7       0
Private consumption                           71.3     68.8       64.9      65.3    .4o
General government consumption                 9.9      9.1        9.7       8.4
Imports of goods and services                  9.2     13.5       30.3      30.2                        
(average anual growth)1976-86  1987-97                1996       1997     Growth rates of ex-ports an1dim_p`orts %)
Agriculture                                    2.7      1.6        3.8       1.0    401
Industry                                       3.6      3.3       10.2       9.3
Manufacturing                                3.2       3.7      10.9       9.8    20
Services                                       4.0      2.9        3.3       6.6
Private consumption                            3.0      2.7        2.2       6.3 
General government consumption                 5.8      2.0       -0.7       1.8            9      39
Gross domestic investment                     -0.2      4.1       25.7      22.8    20
Imports of goods and services                  0.1     13.3       22.8      22.0               -Ex-orts        -lmpo
Gross national product                         3.4      2.5        5.8       8.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
Page 59



Mexico: Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project                                     Project Appraisal Document
Alvaro Soler
P:\!MX\PROJECTS\ESSD\GEFAGRIC\PAD\PADI 124.doc
11/23/99 11:24 AM
Page 60



