Report No. PID8178
Project Name                     Mexico-Renewable Energy for Agriculture
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development
Project ID                       MXGE60718
Recipient                        Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Implementation Agency            Trust Fund for Shared Risk (FIRCO)
Date this PID prepared           September 14, 1999
Appraisal date                   July 21, 1999
Planned Board presentation       December, 1999
Background
The World Bank Group Mexico Country Assistance Strategy (Report 19289-MX
dated May 13, 1999) emphasizes a development agenda with three core themes:
(i) social sustainability; (ii) removing obstacles to sustainable growth and
maintaining macro-economic stability; and (iii) more effective public
governance. The project would contribute directly to all three themes and is
also directly consistent with the World Bank Group's strategy on the
environment in Mexico, which prioritizes identification of "win-win"
investment opportunities, where global environmental benefits and national
economic benefits can be generated through an integrated and mainstreamed
approach to development priorities". The social theme would be addressed by
increasing the income of farmers and thereby improving the standard of living
in rural areas. The growth theme, as well as its key element of protecting
the environment, would be addressed by improving the productivity of farmers
using environmentally-benign, least-cost renewable energy technologies.
Finally, the public governance theme would be addressed by assisting the
Government in its decentralization efforts and building the capacity of
government agencies to provide farmers with technical assistance in the use
of renewable energy technologies.
The project addresses issues in the agriculture and energy sectors.
Agriculture: Agriculture remains a weak sector of the Mexican economy but
agriculture could remain an important economic sector provided a) its
commercial sector continues to be competitive through the permanent use of
modern technologies and increased yields and b) the productive potential of
small-scale farming can be fully developed. Improving the delivery of
financial services to the rural population remains one of the main
constraints to the development of the agricultural sector. Financial
services remain severely deficient in rural areas and access to financial
resources for productive investment continues to be limited, especially for
small farmers.
In 1996, the Government launched a national agriculture and rural development
initiative - the Alianza para el Campo (Alianza) Program - to increase
capitalization in the agriculture sector. The Program fosters agricultural



productivity improvement by financing productive investments (under a
matching grant scheme) and by providing support services (research,
extension, information and training) for a wide range of agricultural
activities. In providing matching grants for the acquisition of capital
equipment, Alianza essentially substitutes for absent rural finance services.
The cornerstones of the Alianza program are its decentralized approach, with
a delegation of administration and decision-making to the States, and its
demand-driven nature, providing financing and support services only in
response to requests from farmers.
The Government most recently developed the Agricultural Productivity
Improvement Project (ALCAMPO) to support and improve Alianza's delivery of
financing and technical services to small farmers and poor rural communities.
A World Bank loan of US$445 million was approved in December 1998 and project
implementation began in early 1999.
Energy: Approximately 5 percent of Mexico's population remains without
access to electricity, including an estimated 5 million people, 88,000
villages and 600,000 livestock farms. While government at all levels
recognize the productivity and social development benefits of rural
electrification, and especially of the electrification of farms, budget
limitations and rural poverty will prevent the electrification of the vast
majority of these energy users in the foreseeable future.
In 1994, Mexico began to support the electrification of farms with renewable
energy in 8 of the country's 32 states through FIRCO's participation in the
USAID/USDOE-supported Renewable Energy Program. The experience gained by
FIRCO through this program has enabled the government to expand the scope of
Alianza to cover the electrification of farms with renewable energy systems.
Farmers can now receive matching grants from Alianza towards the purchase of
renewable energy systems to pump water and power farm equipment. Further,
farmers can receive proportionately larger grants for renewable energy
systems than for conventional energy equipment. However, a number of
barriers have been encountered in the implementation of this program, which
have impeded the development of a self-sustaining market in farm-based
renewable energy systems.
The barriers impeding penetration of renewable energy technologies in
Mexico's agriculture sector include: (i) lack of awareness among
unelectrified farmers regarding renewable energy technologies; (ii) lack of
trained technicians and vendors that can design, install and service
renewable energy systems and agricultural extensionists that can advise
farmers on their proper operation; (iii) lack of technical specifications and
certification processes for renewable energy equipment; (iv) uncertainty
within the local renewable energy industry regarding the potential market for
renewable energy systems in the agricultural sector and potential
applications of renewable energy technologies on farms; (v) farmers'
perception of renewable energy technologies as risky, simply because they are
novel; and (vi) the high initial cost of renewable energy systems, relative
to conventional alternatives, coupled with deficient rural finance services
that prevent farmers from financing their higher initial cost over time.
Past performance and Issues
The project would address the identified barriers to the penetration of
-2 -



renewable energy technologies in Mexico's agriculture sector by a)
implementing a nation-wide promotion campaign to increase farmers' awareness
of renewable energy systems; b) building the capacity of technicians and
agricultural extensionists through training; c) introducing technical
specifications and certification procedures for farm-based renewable energy
equipment; d) carrying out studies on the potential market and applications
for renewable energy in Mexico's agriculture sector; e) installing renewable
energy systems (including solar- and wind-powered pumps and solar-powered
refrigerated milk storage tanks) on selected farms as demonstration units to
reduce other farmers' perceived risk; f) supporting the operation of these
renewable energy systems through the provision of on-going technical
assistance to participating farmers by trained extensionists; and g) testing
innovative vendor financing mechanisms for farm-based renewable energy
systems in four states.
One of the most important strategic choices adopted for the project is to
implement it within the framework of the federal government's Alianza para el
Campo Program. Alianza is an established and well-run program that covers
the entire nation and enjoys substantial support among farmers and all levels
of government.    Its demand-driven and participatory approach to the
provision of financial and technical assistance to farmers supports economic
efficiency and local ownership. Alianza provides the project with an
established vehicle with which to deliver renewable energy-focused financial
and technical assistance to unelectrified farmers throughout the country.
Another strategic choice is to experiment with vendor financing as an
approach to the financing of farm-based renewable energy systems. Given the
deficiency of consumer financing in rural areas, vendors of renewable energy
systems represent an efficient conduit with which to deliver financing to
farmers.
Project Description
a. Project development objective are:
a)      to provide unelectrified farmers with reliable electricity supply for
productive purposes in a least-cost and sustainable manner using renewable
energy technologies;
b)      to increase the productivity and income of unelectrified farmers by
supporting the adoption of productive investments and improved farming
practices; and
c)      to improve FIRCO's ability to catalyze the penetration of renewable energy
technologies in the agriculture sector.
b. Project components and costs: TABLE AVAILABLE IN THE INFOSHOP
Project implementation
Project implementation would span a 4 year period (2000-2003). The project
would be executed by the Trust Fund for Shared Risk (FIRCO), a parastatal
agency operating under the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural
Development (SAGAR), the main Mexican counterpart to the USAID/USDOE
Renewable Energy Program.
FIRCO would establish a Project Coordination Office (PCO) in its Mexico City
headquarters to execute the project and use its state offices to coordinate
local project activities. The PCO would directly manage execution of the
-3 -



promotion, institutional strengthening, market development and specifications
and certification components, with support from FIRCO's state offices. The
demonstration, technical assistance and vendor financing components would be
delegated to the state offices, which would receive support from the PCO.
The state offices would implement the demonstration and technical assistance
components by integrating renewable energy and GEF support into their ongoing
implementation of the above-mentioned Alianza sub-programs. The vendor
financing pilot program would be implemented in the four target states by the
FIRCO offices in those states.
Project Sustainability
The project aims to remove barriers to the use of renewable energy in the
agriculture sector. The prospects for sustainability of barrier removal are
as follows:
- Lack of awareness among farmers, lack of information on the renewable
energy market and viable applications in agriculture and lack of
specifications and certification should be permanently removed by project
activities.
- Farmers' perceived risks with respect to renewable energy: The project's
demonstration component should go a long way towards removing this barrier
permanently. Seeing is believing in most rural areas and witnessing the
successful operation of demonstration units will convince many farmers that
renewable energy systems are reliable and cost-effective.
- Lack of renewable energy-trained technicians and extensionists:
Technicians and extensionists trained under the program would maintain
their knowledge base through their work installing renewable energy systems
and advising farmers on their proper operation.
- Higher initial cost of renewable energy systems, coupled with deficient
rural finance services: The recently announced incremental government
support for renewable energy systems will help to diminish this barrier.
In addition, vendor financing, to be tested in the project's vendor
financing pilot, could also contribute to removing this barrier.
Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be high, given that the
investments in renewable energy systems would be complemented by technical
assistance to ensure their proper operation. In addition, increases in net
income as a result of the renewable energy equipment will support improved
maintenance of that equipment over time and further investments in
productivity-improving equipment.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
Flexibility and demand-driven approaches are key to building ownership,
defining local priorities and facilitating improved implementation and
sustainability of rural and agricultural development initiatives. Through
its incorporation in the Alianza program, the project adopts a flexible and
demand-driven approach to the provision of financial and technical assistance
for renewable energy systems.
Micro-investment programs risk forming a disparate collection of
interventions that may not catalyze the critical mass of activities to
attract the private sector, generate competition among suppliers and foster
the establishment of support services. Through strategic marketing, the
project will aim to install an average of 34 renewable energy demonstration
- 4 -



systems in each participating state, thus catalyzing local markets for solar
pumps and regional markets for wind pumps and solar tanks.
It is important that investments in new technologies or practices be
accompanied by technical assistance in their operation. In relation to this,
the project will make renewable energy-trained extensionists available to
participating farmers in order to ensure the satisfactory operation of newly
acquired renewable energy systems.
FIRCO's decentralized structure and ALCAMPO's supported Alianza's agile
mechanisms should counter poor timing and lengthy budgetary and bureaucratic
processes are likely to jeopardize the implementation of rural development
programs, particularly in agriculture where natural cycles impose time
constraints.
Developmental considerations, rather than technology or environmental
considerations, should dominate any initiative to penetrate agricultural
markets with new, environmentally-benign technologies, since farmers are
primarily interested in productivity and income gains than new technology or
environmental benefits. By setting the project within the auspices of the
Alianza program, developmental considerations will dominate the project.
Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable Development
Environmental Aspects
The project is classified as category B. The solar and wind technologies
whose agricultural applications are to be demonstrated through the project
are considered to be among the most environment-friendly forms of energy.
Environmental benefits at the global level will be reduction in emission of
greenhouse gases; and at the local level, abatement of air, water and soil
pollution through substitution of gasoline-powered equipment. All potential
negative environmental impacts associated with the use of renewable energy
systems to increase agricultural productivity will be addressed through the
environmental procedures established in the project Implementation Manual.
This manual replicates the environmental procedures from the ALCAMPO manual,
which apply regardless of the source of energy, with additions covering one
aspect (battery disposal) which is specific to certain uses of solar energy.
In order to avoid more general environmental impacts associated with on-farm
investment projects, the project would employ the same environmental
procedures as required by ALCAMPO.
Contact Points:
Michael Carroll (Task Manager)            Ing. Manuel Contijoch
The World Bank                            Director General - FIRCO
1818 H St. N.W.                           San Luis PotosU 209
Washington, D.C. 20433                    Colonia Roma Sur
Telephone:   (202) 473-9528               C.P. 06700 Mexico, D.F.
Fax: (202) 522-3132                       Telephone: (52-5) 264-5288
Mcarroll@worldbank.org                     Fax: (52-5) 264-5888
The Infoshop
The World Bank
-5-



1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
activities and/or components may not be included in the final
project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 24, 1999.
- 6 -



