Page  1
August 14, 2000
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
Director Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 México, D.F.
México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
03100  México, D.F.
México 
Re:
GEF Trust Fund Grant no. TF 023251 (Renewable Energy 
for Agriculture Project) Amendment to the GEF Grant 
Agreement
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the GEF Grant Agreement among International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the 
Recipient) and the United Mexican States (the UMS), dated March 26, 2000, with 
respect to the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you of our 
agreement to amend said GEF Grant Agreement as indicated below.
Section 3.01 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“The UMS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this GEF Grant Agreement and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this GEF 
Grant Agreement, the UMS shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project 
to be carried out, through FIRCO (with respect to all Parts of the Project 
except Part E.4 thereof) and SAGAR in cooperation with FIRCO (with respect 
to Part E.4 of the Project), all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate environmental, technical, financial and 
administrative standards and practices.”.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating the three originals of this letter in the spaces provided below, and 
returning one to us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of its date 
first above written, upon receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter 
signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(as implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility)
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Director, Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES
Page  2
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized 
Representative
Date:
14 de agosto del 2000
Date:
14 de agosto del 
2000
