Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023251
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Renewable Energy for Agriculture Project)
among
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated March 26, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023251
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 2000, among United Mexican States (the 
UMS) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect 
of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the 
Bank as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 
1991 of the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby 
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements 
continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 
24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, 
established the GEF Trust Fund, authorized the first replenishment of the 
GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as Trustee of the GEF Trust Fund 
(Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved 
on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the UMS and the Recipient, having satisfied themselves as to 
Page  2
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this GEF Grant Agreement, have requested assistance from the resources of 
the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and said request 
having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument 
for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from contributions 
to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds 
carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 94-2; and
(E)
the UMS and the Recipient have also obtained from the Bank 
additional funding towards the financing of the UMS’s Alianza para el 
Campo program which serves as the institutional framework within which 
the Project will be carried out, such funding being provided in the 
amount of up to four hundred forty-four million four hundred fifty 
thousand Dollars ($444,450,000) through the May 11, 1999 loan agreement 
between the Bank and the Recipient for the Agricultural Productivity 
Improvement Project (Loan 4428-ME); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Recipient 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (the GEF Grant 
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General 
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements” of the Bank, 
dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) 
of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this GEF Grant Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (9), 
(10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), 
(h), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 
9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
Page  3
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12,02 , 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
Section 2.01 (7) shall read:  ““Guarantor” means the 
United Mexican States.”;
(ii)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 
2.01 to read as follows: 
“the term “Special Drawing 
Rights” and the symbol “SDR” mean special drawing 
rights 
as valued by the International Monetary Fund in accordance with its 
Articles of Agreement”;
(iii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 
(f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Section 
5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the 
GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also 
include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity;
(iv)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the 
Recipient;
(v)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this 
GEF Grant Agreement;
(vi)
the terms “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, mean the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vii)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(viii) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to 
read: “Except as the Bank 
and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on 
account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations.”;
(ix)
the first sentence of Section 10.01 is deleted;
(x)
Section 10.04 is amended to read: “Any dispute 
arising out of or relating to 
this Agreement which is not 
settled by agreement of the parties shall be 
finally 
settled by arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration 
Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The 
place of arbitration shall 
be Washington, D.C.  In the 
event of a conflict between the UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement 
shall govern.”; and
(xi)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (k) in 
Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions, as 
follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have arisen 
in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would 
exceed 
the resources available for disbursement from 
Page  4
the GEF.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this GEF 
Grant Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Alianza para el Campo” means the UMS’s agricultural 
production and rural development program established on the basis of the 
UMS’s 1995-2000 National Development Plan and subsequent coordination 
with agricultural producers’ organizations;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a farmer or unincorporated group thereof 
that receives investment support from the UMS under the Alianza para el 
Campo;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) 
and (5) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this GEF 
Grant Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for 
installation, goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this GEF 
Grant Agreement;
(e)
“FIRCO” means the Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido (Trust 
Fund for Shared Risk), a trust established by the UMS with Banco Nacional 
de Crédito Rural as trustee and governed by the Convenio Modificatorio al 
Contrato de Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido (Agreement Amending the 
Shared Risk Trust Fund Contract) dated November 30, 1992;
(f)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date 
herewith from the UMS to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring 
and evaluation indicators;
(g)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 
3.02 (a) of this GEF Grant Agreement;
(h)
“PA” means the annual plan for implementation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.06 (e) of this GEF Grant Agreement;
(i)
“Participating State” means:  (i) for purposes of 
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) involving solar-powered water 
pumping systems, any of the UMS’s states except for Baja California Sur, 
Chihuahua, Quintana Roo and Sonora; (ii) for purposes of Subprojects (as 
hereinafter defined) involving wind-powered water pumping systems, the 
UMS states of Baja California, Baja California Sur, Chiapas, Coahuila, 
Hidalgo, Michoacán, Nuevo León, Oaxaca, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosí, 
Sonora, Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Yucatán and Zacatecas; (iii) for purposes 
of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) involving solar-powered 
refrigerated milk storage tanks, the UMS states of Aguascalientes, 
Campeche, Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Oaxaca, Quintana Roo, San 
Luis Potosí, Tabasco, Tlaxcala and Veracruz; (iv) for purposes of Part G 
of the Project, the UMS states of Baja California Sur, Sonora, Chihuahua 
and Quintana Roo; and (v) for purposes of Subprojects (as hereinafter 
defined) involving “other equipment” under Part E of the Project, any of 
the UMS’s states agreed by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.02 (e) (ii) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
“Participation Agreement” means an agreement or other 
written instrument referred to in Section 3.02 (f) of this GEF Grant 
Agreement;
(k)
“PCU” means the unit or team referred to in Section 3.02 (c) 
of this GEF Grant Agreement;
Page  5
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (d) of this GEF Grant Agreement;
(m) 
“SAGAR” means the UMS’s Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería 
y Desarrollo Rural (Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development 
Secretariat);
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this GEF Grant Agreement; and
(o)
“Subproject” means the purchase, installation (including 
associated small works) and use of any of the milk storage tanks, water 
pumping systems and “other equipment” under Part E of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this GEF Grant 
Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to six million four hundred fifty-two thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,452,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this GEF Grant Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, installation thereof (including associated 
small works) and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the UMS 
and the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The UMS declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this GEF Grant Agreement 
and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this GEF Grant Agreement, the UMS shall carry out the 
Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, through FIRCO (with 
respect to all Parts of the Project except Part E.4 thereof) and SAGAR 
(with respect to Part E.4 of the Project), all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental, technical, 
financial and administrative standards and practices.
(b)
The UMS, through FIRCO and SAGAR, shall provide or cause to 
be provided, in a timely manner as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project (including the UMS 
funding amounts set forth in Part B of Schedule 4 to this GEF Grant 
Agreement and in Section 3.09 of this GEF Grant Agreement).
(c)
The Recipient and the UMS shall enter into, and comply with 
the terms of, contractual arrangements between themselves, satisfactory 
to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for the transfer to the UMS of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.  Except as the Bank may otherwise 
agree, the Recipient and the UMS shall not amend or fail to enforce any 
provision of such contractual arrangements.  The Recipient and the UMS 
shall exercise their rights under such contractual arrangements in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient, the UMS and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Page  6
Section 3.02. The UMS shall:
(a)
issue a manual, amendable from time to time and in any case 
satisfactory to the Bank, which sets forth the rules and procedures for 
carrying out the Project and consists of the UMS’s Normas de Operación de 
la Alianza para el Campo (Operational Norms for the Alianza para el 
Campo) published in the UMS’s Diario Oficial de la Federación (Official 
Gazette) on March 31, 1999, as supplemented by a FIRCO Project-specific 
operational manual (in case of any conflict between the terms of said 
manual as so supplemented and those of this GEF Grant Agreement, the 
terms of this GEF Grant Agreement shall prevail);
(b)
cause the Project to be carried out in coordination with the 
Participating States within the framework of the Alianza para el Campo, 
through the use of Participation Agreements and in compliance with the 
terms of the Operational Manual;
(c)
maintain throughout the course of Project implementation, a 
unit or team within FIRCO, with equipment, staff and a structure and 
organization all satisfactory to the Bank, which unit or team shall 
coordinate Project implementation at the national level in collaboration 
with SAGAR;
(d)
maintain, throughout the course of Project implementation, a 
FIRCO office in each Participating State, with equipment, staff and a 
structure and organization all satisfactory to the Bank, which office 
shall coordinate implementation of Parts E, F and G of the Project at its 
Participating State level in collaboration with SAGAR;
(e)
(i) ensure that Subprojects meet the eligibility criteria 
for Project support set forth in Part A of Schedule 4 to this GEF Grant 
Agreement; and (ii) in the particular case of any Subproject involving 
“other equipment” under Part E of the Project, ensure in addition that 
the Bank has agreed in writing on the appropriateness of the renewable 
energy technology in question and has agreed in writing to the carrying 
out of such Subproject in the relevant UMS state;
(f)
not allow any Participating State or Beneficiaries therein 
to participate in the Project unless:  (i) there is in effect for that 
Participating State an agreement (between the Participating State and the 
UMS) or any other written instrument, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby 
the Participating State commits to participate in the Project under terms 
and conditions which include compliance with the Operational Manual and 
timely provision of Participating State counterpart funds for the Project 
as set forth in Part B of Schedule 4 to this GEF Grant Agreement and in 
Section 3.09 of this GEF Grant Agreement; and (ii) the Participating 
State is in compliance with its obligations under such agreement or 
instrument; and
(g)
maintain or cause to be maintained a cadre of agricultural 
extensionists who can provide services to small farmers under the Project 
in the languages of the major indigenous groups whose members are 
potentially eligible to participate in the Project, as well as prepare or 
cause to be prepared agricultural extension publications in such 
languages for use by such groups.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, installation thereof (including associated small works) and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this GEF Grant Agreement.
Section 3.04. The UMS shall, through FIRCO and SAGAR, carry out, or 
cause to be carried out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
Page  7
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with 
regard to the Project.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the UMS shall, through FIRCO 
and SAGAR:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the UMS and 
the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the UMS on said plan. 
Section 3.06. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and 
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the UMS, through FIRCO and SAGAR, shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the Project monitoring indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
furnish to the Bank, by no later than each March 31 and 
September 30 during Project implementation (beginning no later than 
September 30, 2000), semestral progress reports on Project 
implementation, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, which reports shall 
be based on the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter;
(c)
participate with the Bank, by no later than each March 31 
during Project implementation (beginning no later than March 31, 2001), 
in an annual review of Project implementation based on the semestral 
reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section;
(d)
participate with the Bank, during the annual review to be 
held in March 31, 2002, in a midterm review of Project implementation, 
based on:
(i)
the semestral reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section; and
(ii)
a Project midterm evaluation conducted by independent 
consultants hired by 
FIRCO and acting under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, which 
midterm review shall aim to identify any changes in Project structure 
that 
need be considered by the Bank and the UMS in 
light of project implementation 
experience up to the time 
of said midterm review;
(e)
no later than each January 15 during Project implementation 
(beginning with the annual plan prepared in satisfaction of the condition 
set forth in Section 6.01 (b) of this GEF Grant Agreement), prepare an 
annual plan amendable from time to time and in any case satisfactory to 
the Bank, which annual plan shall be complied with in implementing the 
Project during the twelve months immediately subsequent to its 
preparation; and
(f)
systematically solicit periodic Beneficiary assessments of 
Project implementation, and publish the results of such assessments.
Section 3.07. The Recipient shall participate with the UMS and the 
Bank in the reviews referred to in Section 3.06 (c) and (d) of this GEF 
Grant Agreement.
Page  8
Section 3.08. (a) With regard to Part D.1 of the Project, the UMS 
shall, through FIRCO, complete the market assessment study referred to 
therein by no later than six months after the Effective Date.
(b)
With regard to the provision of technical assistance under 
Part F of the Project, the UMS, through FIRCO, shall use private sector 
extensionists as consultants under contracts whereby each such 
extensionist receives a consultant fee bonus of up to $140 equivalent per 
year (or other maximum figure agreed by the Bank) for each renewable 
energy system installed by Beneficiaries under Part E of the Project as a 
result of consultation with such extensionist.
Section 3.09. (a) With regard to Part G of the Project, the UMS, 
through FIRCO and SAGAR, shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with one or more lessors, whereby, inter alia, all parties 
thereto shall comply with the relevant terms of the Operational Manual 
and:
(i)
SAGAR shall, out of its own non-GEF Trust Fund Grant 
proceeds, pay the lessor 
50% of the purchase price paid by 
the lessor to obtain a solar-powered water 
pumping 
system for subsequent lease to a farmer (with the proviso that said 
purchase price, for purposes of applying said percentage, 
shall not exceed the 
Mexican peso cap equivalent 
therefor set forth in the Operational Manual);
(ii)
SAGAR shall cause the relevant Participating State, 
through a Participation 
Agreement, to pay the lessor (out 
of the Participating State’s own non-GEF 
Trust 
Fund Grant proceeds) 10% of said capped purchase price paid by the 
lessor to obtain a solar-powered water pumping system 
for subsequent lease to 
a farmer;
(iii)
FIRCO shall, out of GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds, 
pay the lessor 30% of the 
entire uncapped purchase price 
paid by the lessor to obtain a solar-powered 
water pumping 
system for subsequent lease to a farmer;
(iv)
the lessor agrees to enter into a lease contract with 
the farmer, whereby, in 
exchange for installation of the 
solar-powered water pumping system, the 
farmer 
agrees to, inter alia:  (A) make an up-front payment to the lessor 
equal to the entire uncapped purchase price paid by 
the lessor to obtain the 
solar-powered water pumping 
system, not otherwise covered by payments referred 
to in 
subparagraphs (i) through (iii) above; (B) make a payment to the lessor 
of a mark-up and commission surcharge in the amount set 
forth in the 
Operational Manual; and (C) make 
periodic lease payments to the lessor in the 
amounts and 
for the periods set forth in the Operational Manual, with the 
right to obtain ownership of the pumping system once all 
those lease payments 
are made in a timely manner; and
(v)
the lessor agrees to enter into such lease contracts, 
for systems financed in 
part by the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, solely with farmers who meet 
the 
lower-income criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
(b)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the UMS shall ensure 
that FIRCO and SAGAR neither amend nor fail to enforce any provision of 
the agreements, referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, among 
FIRCO, SAGAR and lessors.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  9
Section 4.01. (a) The UMS (through SAGAR and FIRCO) and the 
Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The UMS and the Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards 
and 
procedures consistently applied, by independent 
and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements 
of the Special Account; 
and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the UMS and the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records;
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure or Project Management Reports submitted 
during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
(d)
(i)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this GEF Grant Agreement, 
the UMS, through FIRCO, shall carry out a time-bound 
action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of 
said Section 4.01 in order 
to enable the UMS, not 
later than December 15, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable 
to the Bank, each of which:
(A) (I) sets forth actual sources and 
Page  10
applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for 
the 
six-month period following the period covered 
by said report; and (II) 
shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant 
during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(B) (I) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report; and (II) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(C) sets forth the status of procurement under 
the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(ii)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (d) (i) of 
this Section, the UMS shall 
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
Agreement Amending the Shared Risk Trust Fund Contract, referred to in 
Section 1.02 (e) of this GEF Grant Agreement, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the UMS to perform any of its 
obligations under this GEF Grant Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any 
event specified in Section 5.01 of this GEF Grant Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the GEF Grant Agreement within the 
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) of this GEF Grant Agreement have been entered into; and
(b)
that the Operational Manual has been issued by FIRCO and put 
into effect (accompanied by the PA for the first year of the Project, 
satisfactory to the Bank).
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely 
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Page  11
GEF Grant Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the UMS, have been duly executed by them, and are legally 
binding upon the Recipient and the UMS in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date June 26, 2000, is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. This GEF Grant Agreement shall continue in effect 
until the GEF Trust Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties 
to this GEF Grant Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the UMS and the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient, and the Director General 
de Crédito Público of the UMS is designated as representative of the UMS, 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the UMS:
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (piso 9)
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
1777313-SHOCME
For the Recipient:
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Dirección Internacional
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 México, D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
NAFIN
NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City
Mexico City
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this GEF Grant Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in New Orleans, Louisiana, United States 
Page  12
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ José Angel Gurría Treviño
Authorized Representative
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ Carlos Sales Gutiérrez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the 
amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
       Amount of the GEF
         Trust Fund Grant
   % of
Allocated (Expressed 
Expenditures
Category
in SDR)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Solar-powered or wind-powered 
      2,103,000
30%
water pumping systems and
installation thereof under Part E
of the Project
(2)
Solar-powered refrigerated
 507,000
45%
milk storage tanks and
installation thereof under
Part E of the Project
(3)
Solar-powered water pumping
362,000
30%
systems and installation thereof
under Part G of the Project
(4)
“Other equipment” and
   0
30%
Page  13
installation thereof under
Part E of the Project
(5)
Training; promotion;
     3,118,000
100%
consultants’ services
(6)
Unallocated
362,000
TOTAL
     6,452,000
2.
For purposes of this Schedule:  (a) the terms “training; promotion” 
in Category (5) above include reasonable costs for trainee travel and per 
diem expenses, for training facility and equipment rentals and for 
trainer and promotional consultants (including training and promotional 
materials prepared and replicated by such consultants as part of their 
consultant services); and (b) the term installation can include small 
works associated with such installation, as set forth in Part A.8 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for training 
expenditures (not covered by consultant fees) and for expenditures for 
items not covered by the terms of Section I, Part C.1 and Section II, 
Part C.2 of Schedule 3 to this GEF Grant Agreement, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not 
consistent with the provisions of this GEF Grant Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit 
into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account either:  (a) in Banco de México on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank; or (b) in a commercial bank or in the Recipient 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set off, seizure or attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall 
be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.01 (d) of this GEF Grant 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Recipient for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.01 (d) of this GEF Grant Agreement, accompanied by 
a request from the Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the 
Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  14
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.01 (d) of this GEF Grant Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient or the UMS shall have failed to furnish to 
the Bank within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of 
this GEF Grant Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of:  (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient 
to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of this GEF Grant Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made  On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
Page  15
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of 
each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
GEF Grant Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Recipient, all withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be 
deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this GEF Grant Agreement.  Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account for deposit into the Special Account shall be supported by a 
Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to 
be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall 
Page  16
not exceed the equivalent of $1,780,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:  (a) provide unelectrified 
farmers in Mexico with reliable electricity supply for productive 
purposes in a least-cost and sustainable manner, using renewable energy 
technologies; (b) increase the productivity and income of said farmers by 
supporting their adoption of productive investments and improved farming 
practices; (c) improve FIRCO’s ability to catalyze the penetration of 
renewable energy technologies in the Mexican agricultural sector; (d) 
promote the use of renewable energy for productive purposes in the 
agriculture sector by removing barriers thereto and reducing 
implementation costs thereof; and (e) reduce greenhouse gas emissions in 
the agriculture sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the UMS, the Recipient and the Bank may agree 
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Renewable Energy Promotion
Carrying out of a promotional campaign, through the use of, inter 
alia, pamphlets, posters, technical briefs, radio advertising, videos, 
workshops, demonstration events and agricultural fairs and expositions, 
to increase awareness in the Mexican agricultural sector of renewable 
energy technologies and their potential benefits, as well as to promote 
participation in the Project.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
Training of technicians, extensionists, vendors and trainers, and 
carrying out of national and regional seminars, to increase the capacity 
of private and public sector technicians to design, install and maintain 
farm-based renewable energy systems in Mexico, to increase the capacity 
of private sector and government agricultural extensionists to advise 
farmers on the suitability and proper operation of such systems and to 
build vendor capacity to operate successfully in the renewable energy 
market for farms.
Part C:
Specifications and Certification
Design of technical specifications for farm-based renewable energy 
systems and associated equipment, as well as establishment and operation 
of certification procedures for renewable energy equipment and service 
providers (including vendors and technicians).
Part D:
Market Development
1.
Carrying out of a market assessment study to document the potential 
demand for, and supply of, farm-based renewable energy systems in Mexico 
(which study would include, inter alia, an analysis of farmer ability and 
willingness to pay for such systems, an analysis of the technical quality 
and prices of such systems offered by Mexican suppliers and an analysis 
of how such suppliers can improve the scope and quality of renewable 
energy products and services they offer to farmers).
2.
Carrying out of a series of technology assessment studies to 
determine the commercial feasibility of specific farm-based renewable 
energy applications in Mexico (including, inter alia, solar-powered milk 
storage tanks, solar-powered milking machines and solar-, wind- and 
Page  17
biomass-powered tools and equipment).
Part E:
Demonstration
Purchase and installation by Beneficiaries, for use as 
demonstration operations in Participating States, of farm-based 
solar-powered water pumping systems, farm-based wind-powered water 
pumping systems, farm-based solar-powered refrigerated milk storage tanks 
and other farm-based renewable energy-powered equipment (“other 
equipment”), all pursuant to the following programs (or similar 
successors thereof) of Alianza para el Campo:  (1) Ferti-irrigación 
(Irrigation Development) program; (2) Fomento Lechero (Dairy Development) 
program; (3) Establecimiento de Praderas (Pasture Establishment) program 
or (4) Apoyo al Desarrollo Rural (Rural Development Support) program.
Part F:
Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance, through extensionists trained 
under Part B of the Project, to Beneficiaries in support of the purchase, 
installation and use of farm-based renewable energy systems pursuant to 
Part E of the Project.
Part G:
Vendor Financing
Provision of support to the operation of a mechanism for leasing 
farm-based solar-powered water pumping systems to be installed by farmers 
in Participating States, through:  (1) the payment by FIRCO to private 
sector lessors of GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds equal to a portion of the 
cost of purchasing such systems for such subsequent leasing; and (2) the 
provision of technical assistance to FIRCO for administering and refining 
such mechanism. 
Part H:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance to FIRCO in support of its 
general Project management functions.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Installation Thereof (Including 
Associated Small Works)
Part A:
General
Goods and installation thereof (including associated small works) 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published 
by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Community Participation
Goods and installation thereof (including associated small works) 
required for Parts E and G of the Project shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank, which procedures may include:
(a)
direct contracting (with the proviso that, for goods, 
installation thereof and works for which FIRCO maintains reference price 
lists, such goods, installation thereof or works shall be procured at 
Page  18
prices at or below those set forth in such lists);
(b)
procurement of goods and installation thereof under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines; and
(c)
procurement of small installation works under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply with respect to:  (i) each contract or bid 
package procured under Part B of this Section I estimated to cost $50,000 
equivalent or more; and (ii) each of the first five contracts or bid 
packages procured under Part B of this Section I estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under Part B of this 
Section I that is subject to Bank prior review, the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
or small works 
procedures, the Recipient shall 
provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting or 
shopping or small works 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this 
Part C, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Page  19
Part B:
Specific Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Except as otherwise provided in this Part B, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 
3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
(c)
To award contracts below the thresholds set forth in 
paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of this Part, prior review and approval by the 
Bank of short lists (where pertinent) and terms of reference shall be 
required.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) and 
(b) of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects;
Subproject Funding Mix
A.
Subprojects
To be eligible for financing under the Project, a Subproject must, 
without limitation to any other eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual:
1.
be proposed by a Beneficiary;
Page  20
2.
be part of a broader investment, supported by Alianza para el 
Campo;
3.
be approved by FIRCO (with respect to Subprojects under Parts E.1 
through E.3 of the Project) or SAGAR (with respect to Subprojects under 
Part E.4 of the Project);
4.
be financed in part by the Beneficiary, the relevant Participating 
State and the UMS as set forth in Part B of this Schedule;
5.
be documented in a written agreement between FIRCO (with respect to 
Subprojects under Parts E.1 through E.3 of the Project) or SAGAR (with 
respect to Subprojects under Part E.4 of the Project) and the 
Beneficiary, whereby the Beneficiary agrees to make its financing 
contribution referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule, agrees to 
cooperate as necessary to permit monitoring and evaluation by the UMS 
pursuant to the terms of this GEF Grant Agreement and agrees to allow 
access to other farmers to view the operation of the Subproject;
6.
in the case of a Subproject consisting of the installation and use 
of water pumps to access aquifers or other natural water sources, be 
supported by a license from the relevant water authorities to engage in 
the pumping in question;
7.
involve the use of Subproject equipment no closer than one 
kilometer from a public electricity grid and no closer to the site of any 
other Subproject than the distance set forth in the Operational Manual; 
and
8.
if any are required for the proper installation of 
Subproject equipment, involve only small works (i.e., works costing no 
more than $1,500 equivalent).
B.
Subproject Financing Mix
Subprojects shall be financed as follows:  
(1)
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL, TABLE WAS DONE IN INCORRECT FORMAT
(2)
Subprojects involving “other equipment” under Part E of the Project 
shall be financed 30% out of GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds, with the 
remaining costs to be shared by UMS, the Participating State and the 
Beneficiary as set forth in the Operational Manual.
(3)
For purposes of this Part B, the purchase price of a system is 
divided into two portions which together constitute the “total system 
price”:  (a) the “capped system price”, meaning that portion of which the 
UMS may finance a percentage with its own resources as set forth in the 
Operational Manual; and (b) the remaining portion, if any.
