Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14555-MD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FIRST PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 17, 1995
Enterprise and Finance Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(November 1995)
Currency Unit  =  Leu
US$1   =  Lei 4.5
1 Leu   =  US$ 0.22
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRU  - Bank Resolution Unit
BSD  - Banking Supervision Department
CIS - Commonwealth of Independent States
CLRM  - Credit Line Regulations Manual
EAA  - Enterprise Assistance Agency
EAP - Enterprise Assistance Program
BAFS - Broadly Adapted Financial Statements
ESSC - Enterprise Sector Strengthening Component
U (TACIS) - European Union Technical Assistance Program for CIS countries
IMF - International Monetary Fund
FSSC - Financial Sector Strengthening Component
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
GOM  - Government of Moldova
GTZ  - Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IAS - International Accounting Standards
MIN  - Ministry of Industry
MOE  - Ministry of Economy
MOF - Ministry of Finance
NBM  - National Bank of Moldova
PA  - Project Account
PFI - Participating Financial Intermediary
PIU  - Project Implementation Unit
PP - Pilot Program
SAL  - Structural Adjustment Loan
SCC  - State Creditors Committee
SLA  - Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SME  - Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises
SOE  - State-Owned Enterprises
STA  - State Tax Administration
STF  - Systemic Transformation Facility
TA  - Technical Assistance
TAP - Tax Administration Program
TOR  - Terms of Reference
TU  - Technical Unit
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
VAT  - Value Added Tax
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOLDOVA
FIRST PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................                                   i - iii
PART I. BACKGROUND .1
A.  Country Context.                                                                    I
B.          Stabilization and Structural Reform                  .1
C.          Relations with the International Financial Institutions .3
D.  Project Background .3
PART II. SECTOR SETTINGS .4
A.   Enterprise Sector Status .4
B.    Issues in the Enterprise Sector .7
C.    Financial Sector Status .12
D.    Issues in the Financial Sector .15
PART III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .18
A.   Objectives and Scope .18
B.          Project Structure and Financing .18
C.          Enterprise Sector Strengthening Component .18
D.          Financial Sector Strengthening Component .21
E.          Economic Analysis and Rationale for Bank Involvement .25
F.          Detailed Project Costs and Financing Plan .29
PART IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .32
A.    Implementation Arrangements .32
B.          Enterprise Sector Strengthening Component .32
C.          Financial Sector Strengthening Component .33
D.  Procurement .38
E.  Disbursements .40
F.          Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, Auditing and Supervision .41
PART V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .43
A.  Project Benefits .43
B.  Project Risks .43
PART VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .44
A.  Agreements .44
B.  Recommendations .45



ANNEXES
A. Out-of-Court Restructuring-Sample Memoranda
B. Eligibility Criteria for Commercial Banks
C. Automation of the National Bank of Moldova
D. Payments System Development: Technical Specifications
E. Computerization Plan for Tax Inspectorate
F. Project Implementation Schedule
G. Project Supervision Plan
H. Technical Assistance: Estimated Costs, Financing Plan and Procurement Methods
MAP    IBRD No. 24285R2
TABLES
Table 1 - New Business in Moldova
Table 2 - Production Indicators in 1993 and 1994
Table 3 - Unpaid Wages and Salaries, October 1993-July 1994
Table 4 - Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
FIGURES
Figure 1 - Large Enterprises are the Dominant Employers in Moldova
Figure 2 - Bank Credits Overdue
Figure 3 - Arrears for Sample of 12 Enterprises
Figure 4 - Changes in Regulatory Capital in the Moldovan Commercial Banks
BOXES
Box 1 - Privatization Programs for 1993/94 and 1995/96
Box 2 - Performance of Selected Enterprises
Box 3 - Obstacles to the Development of SMEs
Box 4 - Improvements in the Banking Sector
CHARTS
Chart 1 - The Creditor-led Enterprise Adjustment Program
Chart 2 - Organizational Chart of the Technical Unit
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisaldmission that visited Moldova in May 1995.
Members of the team included Messrs./Mmes. Kreacic (Task Manager), Brandsma,; Fleming,
Jedrzejczak, Miklin, Pardo, Sutch, and Vandehoeck. EMessrs. Lamdany and.Pepper are the peer
reviewers. Messrs. Siegelbaum and Kavalsky. are the managing Division Chief and Department
Director respectively for the operation..



MOLDOVA
FIRST PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:    Republic of Moldova
Beneficiary:  Ministry of Finance (MOF), National Bank of Moldova (NBM), Ministry of
Economy (MOE), participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), and private
enterprises.
Poverty Category: N/A
Amount:    US$25 million equivalent and DEM14 million equivalent (about US$10 million).
Terms:    A single currency loan repayable over twenty years, including a five year grace
period and in two tranches: a US dollar tranche in an amount of US$25 million
and a deutsche mark tranche in an amount of DEM14 million equivalent at the
Bank's standard US dollar and DEM Libor-based rates, respectively.
Onlending Terms:   Bank funds under the credit component will be onlent by the MOF to PFIs in US
dollars or deutsche marks; from the PFIs to final borrowers in the same currency at
freely determined interest rates. The cost to PFIs will reflect the cost of Bank
funds, the administrative cost of the Technical Unit (TU) in the MOF, part of
administrative costs of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and a premium to
cover the credit risk associated with the PFIs. Depending on subproject
requirements, the maturity of subloans granted to finance capital formation would
vary from 1 to 5 years; working capital subloans would be for a maximum of 18
months.
Objectives:    The principal objective of the project is to support and help accelerate the
Government's reform program in the enterprise and financial sectors, focusing
especially on measures enhancing the links between commercial banks and
enterprises. In particular, the project will: (a) accelerate the emergence and growth
of small- and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs); (b) streamline larger enterprises
and release assets into the market, thus creating smaller, focused companies; and
(c) increase the efficiency of resource mobilization and credit allocation through the
provision of assistance to restructure the banking system, strengthen the
infrastructure for banking activity, and provide institutional development support
for solvent banks.
Description:    The Project comprises two components: an enterprise sector strengthening
component and a financial sector strengthening component. The enterprise sector
strengthening component would support enterprise adjustment by providing post-
privatization assistance, through a new Enterprise Assistance Agency (EAA), to
selected large enterprises and would finance the automation of the Tax
Administration in the MOF. Thefinancial sector strengthening component would



ii
provide resources, through qualified participating banks, for medium-term loans to
private and privatized enterprises. This component would also assist in the
development of banking skills in the PFIs, the automation of the NBM, and the
further development of the payments system.
Benefits:    Anticipated benefits of the proposed project are: (a) strengthening the supply
response to the Government's reform program through the introduction of a
comprehensive program of support for the development of SMEs and the
turnaround of troubled enterprises; (b) strengthening the financial infrastructure by
upgrading the payments system, automating the Tax Administration and the NBM;
(c) improving the quality of banks by strengthening the regulatory and supervisory
environment in which banks operate; and (d) enabling privatized and new private
enterprises to obtain financing at competitive rates for investments.
Risks:    Risks include: (a) increasing pressure on the Government to reverse the reform
measures if and to the extent that the lack of supply response continues-dealing
with this risk is the fundamental purpose of this operation; (b) possible backsliding
by the Government that will lead to (i) the SCC not sending enterprises into
bankruptcy that cannot be restructured successfully under the EAA, and (ii) future
budgetary contributions being made to enterprises under EAA's care; (c)
institutional weakness of the NBM and PFIs which would lead to a slow
disbursement of the credit component-technical assistance has been incorporated
into the project design specifically to address this risk; (d) afurther deterioration of
the econonty could lead to a significant build-up of non-performing loans which
would have a debilitating effect on the already weak financial sector; and (e) slow
disbursement of the credit line due to possible competition from directed subsidized
credits that might be reintroduced for political reasons. This risk is addressed
through an agreement with the Government that a significant part of funds from the
budget (earmarked for private enterprise assistance) be channeled through the
project-supported TU on market terms.
Project Costs:
US$ Million Equivalent
LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL
Financial Sector Strengthening
Credit Line                   5.00     27.45      32.45
Payments, Clearing System       --      0.68       0.68
NBM Automation                0.45      1.55       2.00
TA, Financial Sector          1.05      3.50       4.55
Enterprise Sector Strengthening
Enterprise Assistance Program    0.50   6.90       7.40
MOF/Tax Administration          --      1.92       1.92
Total Project Cost                7.00      42.00     49.00



iii
Financing Plan:
US$ Million Equivalent
LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL
Government           6.5    --          6.5
IBRD                 --      35.0      35.0
Netherlands          --       2.1       2.1
Germany              --       2.0       2.0
EU (TACIS)           --       1.5       1.5
USAID                --       1.4       1.4
Enterprises          0.5    --          0.5
Total                7.0    42.0       49.0
Economic Rate of Return: N/A
Estimated Disbursements (in US$ Million Equivalent):
FY96  FY97  FY98   FY99   FY00
Annual         3      8      14      7       3
Cumulative     3     11      25      32      35
Closing Date:   July 31, 2000
Map:           IBRD 24285R2
Project ID:    MD-PA-8561






I. BACKGROUND
A.    Country Context
1.1    Moldova is a landlocked country situated between Romania and Ukraine, with a territory of
33,700 square kilometers. It became independent on August 27, 1991. With a population of 4.3 million,
Moldova is the most densely populated country of the former Soviet Union (FSU). The population is 67
percent ethnic Moldovan, 14 percent Ukrainian, 13 percent Russian, 4 percent Gagauz (a Christian
Turkish people), and 2 percent Bulgarian.
1.2    During Moldova's transition to independence, intense conflict arose due to ethnic factors and
differences in approach to economic reform and restructuring. The armed conflict, which ended in a cease
fire in July 1992, resulted in the de facto partition of the country, with the Transnistria region remaining
under separate control. A new Government took over after the parliamentary election in February 1994 and
the Parliament adopted a new Constitution, which establishes a framework for recognizing ethnic differences
and provides democratic mechanisms for solving conflicts. The population decided by referendum in March
1994 that the country would remain independent of its powerful neighbors. This decision lowered tensions in
Transnistria's relations with the rest of the country. Moldova's efforts to reduce the risk of conflict through
peaceful and constitutionally-based negotiations as well as through rebuilding economic relations have so far
been productive. Moldova has entered into trade agreements with the CIS and a number of countries,
including Romania and Germany.
1.3    Moldova's rich soil and moderate climate are advantageous for agricultural production. During
the Soviet period, Moldova developed as a producer of raw and processed foodstuffs (primarily grapes,
grains, wines, fruit, vegetables and livestock). Agriculture (about 40%) and the agro-processing industry
(about 20%) accounted for most of the National Material Product (NMP) while the industrial sector
(household appliances, wood processing, high technology electrical goods and inputs for defense
industries) accounted for an additional 20 percent of NMP.
1.4    The Soviet economy was designed as a centrally-planned production line spreading over eleven
time zones, in which Moldovan enterprises played a fully integrated role. Most large industries in
Moldova were controlled from Moscow. As a result, Moldova was, and still is highly interdependent
with other FSU economies. Its small, open economy has therefore been extremely vulnerable to the
disruption of trade and payments as well as falling demand for its traditional products that has followed
the disintegration of the FSU. In addition, Moldova has suffered a series of climatic disasters that have
reinforced the sharp fall in GDP, now at an estimated 40 percent of its level in 1990.
B. Stabilization and Structural Reform
1.5    Stabilization. Moldova suffered one of the largest terms of trade shocks of any FSU country. Its
dependence on imported energy, and the movement of energy prices to market levels, have lowered real
incomes and created an external balance of payments deficit which continues to pose financing problems.
Foreign exchange reserves, as of November 1995, were estimated at over four months of imports.
Moldova's position as a small member of the ruble area meant that its role in determining domestic monetary
policy in the early years of the transition was essentially passive. Inflation approached 2,000 percent in
1992. In November 1993, the NBM officially introduced the new national currency, the leu, supported by
firm financial policies, including a ceiling on credit to Government. Over eighty percent of credit is now
made available through refinancing auctions; almost all remaining credit is offered at the auction-determined
monthly interest rate. Inflation has been reduced from monthly rates of 30-40 percent for most of 1993 to
1.0 percent in the third quarter of 1995. The interest rate on loans peaked at 31 percent per month in early
1



1994, and then followed inflation down to eventually reach about 4 percent in November 1994. The central
bank auction rate was 1.7 percent per month in October 1995. Commercial interest rates are, however,
much higher, at about 5 percent per month on average, but these too are on a downward trend. Fiscal
tightening reinforced monetary firmness during 1993 and early 1994. Budget transfers to enterprises were
cut to about one percent of public expenditures in 1993, from 21 percent in 1992, and the largest consumer
subsidies, on bread and milk prices, were eliminated in May 1994. The fiscal deficit was narrowed from
over 23 percent of GDP in 1992 to 8 percent in 1994, and is expected to be 4 percent in 1995.
1.6    Structural Reform. As early as 1990 the Government took the first steps towards the creation of
a market economy. However, progress was hampered by divergences between Government and
Parliament on the course of reform and the inertia associated with centrally planned practices and
expectations. Significant change began in March 1993, when Parliament adopted the Government's Action
Program for the stabilization and recovery of the economy, supported by the IMF and the World Bank.
Structural reforms began in earnest, with substantial liberalization of trade and prices, the abolition of
preferential credit, and initial steps to reform agricultural policies and improve social protection.
1.7    The new Government which took office in March 1994 has deepened structural reforms. In the
financial sector, it is committed to promoting the development of a modem commercial banking system
overseen by an autonomous central bank. The NBM has started to build the regulatory and supervisory
framework to improve the safety and soundness of the banking system and is committed to a thorough
restructuring of the sector. The NBM is beginning to extend its scope of responsibility and competence
from the conduct of monetary policy into other central banking areas by tightening prudential regulations,
and by introducing loan classification and provisioning requirements. A new Banking Law adopted by
Parliament in July 1995 strengthened the NBM's powers of supervision and enforcement of safety standards
in commercial banks. The former branches of the Soviet specialized banks were turned into Moldovan
state banks before being nominally privatized. More than 20 new private banks have entered the system.
1.8    Parliament approved the Privatization Law in July 1991, but implementation was delayed,
initially by the outbreak of conflict over the status of Transnistria and continuing debate on methods of
privatization. Significant progress was made from June 1994 onwards, although there is still resistance to
small-scale privatization from local authorities and line Ministries. As of end of June 1995, 741 medium-
and large-scale enterprises had been auctioned and 563 small-scale objects had been privatized through
public auctions. The Government intends to transfer roughly 80 percent of state assets, which includes
the large majority of productive enterprises, into private forms of ownership.
1.9    The Government is delivering a strong signal on payments discipline through initiation of a
program of enterprise restructuring, with pilot liquidations of several loss-makers. The Government has
made significant progress towards creating a supportive business environment by removing all export
restrictions. All price and margin controls have been removed-with the exception of a short list of
socially sensitive goods from which margin controls will be removed by end-1995-and the maximum
tariff is being reduced in stages to 20 percent by December 31, 1995. The Government has removed all
export taxes and has started with the implementation of a more rational tax structure, through the
introduction of a new corporate profit tax, excise taxes and VAT.
1.10   Competition in the agricultural sector is being enhanced by the dismantling of the large parastatals
which dominated grain procurement and agricultural input supply and by the audit and reorganization of
Moldcoop, the cooperative which controls rural retail trade.
1.11   Pensions and other benefits have been de-linked from the minimum wage, and benefits will be
increased through targeted, flat-rate cost-of-living adjustments within the limits set by the overall fiscal stance.
2



The pension age is to be raised and the Government has agreed to take over severance pay obligations of
liquidated enterprises to assist enterprise adjustment and provide for displaced workers.
C. Relations with the International Financial Institutions
1.12   Moldova became a member of the World Bank in August 1992. The first Bank loan to the country,
the Emergency Drought Recovery Loan (3569-MD) of US$26 million, was approved by the Board on
October 21, 1993, with the objective of financing critically needed agricultural imports after the severe
drought of 1992. The IMF supported the Government's stabilization efforts through a Compensatory and
Contingency Financing Facility-CCFF (March 1993); a Systemic Transformation Facility in September
1993; and a Stand-by arrangement (approved in December 1993). In October 1993 the Bank extended a
second loan to Moldova, the Rehabilitation Loan (3653-MD) of US$60 million, to support the initial stage
of structural reform and finance critically needed imports such as oil and gas. The Structural Adjustment
Loan-SAL (3815-MD), also of US$60 million, was approved on December 8, 1994, and is designed to
deepen the stability and reform efforts and support the Government budget. The second tranche of the SAL
was released in October 1995. The IMF granted a second CCFF in December 1994 and approved a second
Stand-by in March 1995. The Pre-Export Guarantee Facility (3851-MD) of US$30 million, effective since
October 1995, has the objective of stimulating viable production for export and building bridges with
foreign financiers, traders, and ultimately investors by mitigating the risk of changes in the policy
environment.
D. Project Background
1.13   The Bank has supported structural reforms which have resulted in trade and price liberalization,
the development by the NBM of the functions appropriate to a central bank, and a substantial shift in
ownership from the public to the private sector. Other donors are supporting the implementation of
complementary reforms which will enhance the prospects of this project's success. The US Government
is giving substantial support to the privatization process and the development of capital markets. Other
donors are assisting with the development of the legal framework for business, formulation of the public
investment program, review of social sector programs, and numerous programs in the agriculture sector.
The emphasis of the Bank's own operations is now shifting from support for the policy framework
necessary for the transition to a market economy towards the promotion of adjustment in the economy.
Bank operations being prepared in parallel in the agriculture and energy sectors will address constraints
to supply response in those sectors. The proposed project will build on and consolidate existing policy
reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors by continuing the dialogue and providing the institutional
development and incentives needed to make those reforms effective.
1.14   To allow the economy to recover, resources will need to be freed from the old economic structures
and channeled through market mechanisms to help fuel new private sector growth. A disproportionate
share of credit available in the economy is absorbed by old, inefficient industries, which also hold a major
share of assets and commercial space, crowding out the nascent private sector. The proposed project aims
to help free these resources and facilitate the emergence of market-based links between enterprises and
banks, thus promoting private sector investment and growth. The project is composed of mutually-
reinforcing components designed to foster new business development, promote privatization and
rationalization of the old industrial and agro-processing enterprises, and provide incentives for efficient
resource allocation through the supply of credit on market criteria to private and privatized enterprises.
3



II. SECTOR SErTINGS
A.     Enterprise Sector Status
2.1    Moldovan enterprises today are constrained by a number of factors inherited from the Soviet
era: too many resources located in large loss-making enterprises; outdated equipment with almost no
process or product flexibility; and inadequate management skills to cope with market-induced changes.
In 1994, industrial production decreased 27.7 percent compared to the previous year. Contraction in
the enterprise sector continued steadily from 1990, but appears to have bottomed out in mid-1995.
Industrial output has grown from 35.6 percent in May 1995 (1990 = 100) to 43.4 percent in September
1995'. At the same time, there is little evidence at the enterprise level of activities which could lead to
the development of new products and markets, higher efficiency and better design and quality of
products. The very slow pace of ownership change until mid 1994, Moldova's relative isolation from
competitive pressures, and a negligible inflow of foreign investment have all contributed to a lack of
enteiprise adjustment.
2.2    Enterprise Sector Structure. Data for the
distribution of employment shows (Fig. 1) that in spite of   Figure 1. Large Enterprises are the Dominant
reductions in employment in the former military complex,            Employers in Moldova
and smaller but continuous labor reductions in the rest of
the sector, large enterprises remain the dominant
employers. As in the other republics of the FSU,
industrial enterprises are grossly oversized. The virtual       17%  12%      42%         29%
non-existence of supportive, industrial SMEs is a               I       _     __
particularly acute problem for Moldova, with its small         0            100-500 
domestic market and traditional agricultural and agro-
processing specialization. Over-sized enterprises are still
heavily dependent on cooperation with the producers and
traders from other republics of the FSU. With the
breakdown of the USSR, and delay in re-establishing        Source: Government of Moldova (1994)
trade lines with the FSU, many production links and
markets were lost.
2.3    These lost links and deteriorating terms of trade resulted in extraordinary pressure to adjust
quickly. Yet, significant adjustment has not materialized at the enterprise level. Few relationships
have been forged with enterprises in non-FSU markets and the new situation has not stimulated much
development of local supportive industries (SMEs) to offset the loss of traditional suppliers.
Enterprises have yet to assume full responsibility for design, marketing, purchasing, sales decisions,
and the development of strong links with local suppliers. Regulations in force until recently explicitly
forbade state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to subcontract work to the local private sector.
Macroeconomic incentives introduced by the Government are not understood fully or are treated as
temporary-all in the expectation that "relations from the past will be reintroduced." Thus, the
structure of the enterprise sector, by firm size and product range, has not changed for the most part nor
has the behavior of much of enterprise management.
iSource: Government of Moldova. Official statistics do not yet capture fully the private sector, while quantification of
prevailing barter transactions leaves a broad margin for error.
4



2.4     Ownership structure has, however, begun to change significantly during the last year with the
acceleration of mass privatization. The state sector of the economy has been progressively reduced and
organizational forms have become more diversified due to the emergence of a small SME sector (see
Table 1).                                                           Table 1. New business in Moldova*
2.5     Privatization Experience. In July 1991,               Legal Form             01/93          07195
the Parliament approved the Privatization Law.                                    (# of registered businesses)
The slow pace of privatization, up to 1994, was
due to conflicting legal provisions, weak
coordination between different governmental                   Limited Liability      7,470          16,479
institutions involved in the privatization process,           Individual Company     5,110          29,376
the complexity of the privatization procedures, and           Jin SW k ComFany         206           2,323
the highly politicized environment prior to the               Production Cooperatives 2,227          2,436
elections in February 1994.                                   Leaseholds               486             337
Total                 15,980         64,908
2.6      The first privatization program was
adopted for 1993-1994 and covered 1,555 objects:               *Theactualnumberofoperatingeompaniesmaybe
995 medium- and large-scale enterprises and 560          lower, Many would-be entrepreneurs register to keep the
SMEs (see Box 1). This represents approximately           option of developing a private business while maintaining
35 percent of the overall value of state assets and       their job in SOBs or the Government. Also, private
about 50 percent of the total net value of the state      ernployers often require employees to register as individual
owned enterprises (excluding agriculture and              entrepreneurs to avoid excessive wage taxes.
housing which have been privatized under separate             Source: Government of Moldova
laws). The enterprises located in Transnistria have
since been removed from the list (as unavailable
for privatization) and some enterprises, especially small objects, were liquidated, merged or leased. By
the end of June 1995, 741 medium- and large-scale enterprises had been auctioned for patrimonial
bonds. In August 1994, the open outcry auctions were resumed for small-scale units, and by the end
of June 1995, 563 small-scale objects had been privatized.
2.7     Upon completion of the mass privatization program for 1995/96, it is expected that roughly 80
percent of state productive assets will have been transferred to private ownership. In addition, the
Box 1. Privatization Programs for 93/94 and 95/96
The 93/94 Privatization Program is a mass privatization approach with patrimonial bonds (vouchers) as an exclusive
payment instrument. Patrimonial bonds were issued to Moldovan citizens in accordance with their number of years of work.
The share allocation mechanism is based on a competitive auction mechanism. Employees have the right to buy up to
20 percent of shares of their company at a nominal price for patrimonial bonds. In the case of agro-processing enterprises,
50 percent of shares have to be given to suppliers free of charge. A national auction system allows the simultaneous
privatization of hundreds of medium- and large-scale enterprises, and open outcry auctions are used for small-scale units. In
the case of oversubscription-demand greater than 3 times the supply-the allocation of shares is made in a second round of
the auction. If there is still an oversubscription in the second round, the allocation of shares i5 made in a third round, on a
pro rata basis.
The 95/96 Privatization Program includes 800 enterprises to be privatized for patrimonial bonds, 400 enterprises to be
privatized for bonds and/or cash and 240 units (including 90 unfinished construction sites) to be privatized for cash. It is
likely that only a small fraction of the best enterprises can be sold for cash.
5



Government intends to encourage local and foreign strategic investors to participate in privatization on
a case-by-case basis. The list of enterprises to be privatized by different methods consists primarily of
state-owned enterprises not included in the 93/94 Program. The Government also intends to privatize
some of the so-called "strategic" enterprises, such as the national airline, through trade sales to
strategic investors-preferably western-while developing its capacity for regulation and arms-length
supervision.
2.8    Corporate Governance. The secondary market for shares of privatized companies and an
efficient banking system are important mechanisms to enhance corporate governance and to promote
the restructuring of companies. A formal secondary market for trading shares was established recently
when the Moldovan stock exchange launched its first operations in July 1995. A government bond
market is also just starting in Moldova. The Moldovan financial sector faces a number of immediate
structural and infrastructural issues that need to be cleared in order to be an efficient tool to promote
corporate governance. Newly created collective investment vehicles-investment funds, trust companies
and citizens' associations (voucher clubs)-assist the privatization process and introduce a new form of
collective, indirect ownership which can facilitate corporate governance through the accumulation of
larger blocks of voting power. By July 1995, 41 close-ended investment funds and 10 trust companies
had been established.
2.9    Enterprise Sector Performance. The
Moldovan economy continued to shrink in 1994 for  Table 2. Production indicators in 1994 and 1995
the fourth consecutive year until mid-1995 when it
started showing slight improvement (see Table 2).       Indicator                   1994 1995(est.)
This was the result of both adverse climatic
conditions in 1994 and unsolved systemic issues         GDP                         3.8:  40.1
(discussed in the next section). From the               Volue ofIndustrial Production 47.0    423:
perspective of medium term viability, Moldovan          Gross Agricultural Production   60.7   66.7
industrial enterprises, excluding newly registered      Fixed Capital Investments  14.0    9.0
SMEs, can provisionally be divided into three            or         i ffiie
groups, each with specific limitations and
restructuring needs:
*Solvent enterprises with salable products and local markets. This group is small, employing 4-5 % of
the work force, and includes almost all enterprises with a cost advantage over equivalent imports, like:
basic foodstuffs, certain brands of alcohol, and furniture. There are also some enterprises-textiles,
perfumery-where solvency appears achievable given proper management.
*Large enterprises of electro-technical and specialized equipment sectors, formerly producing mainly
for the military complex of the USSR and employing about 6% of the work force. These enterprises
were managed centrally from Moscow and were highly specialized units of an integrated technological
process dispersed all over the FSU2. Recession and economic conversion in the FSU have made their
products obsolete. These enterprises often have highly qualified staff. Their conversion would require
fundamental changes-reorientation of production and substantial long-term financing.
2According to the manager of one defense enterprise, 95% of its production went to other republics of the FSU; the remaining
5% was used locally but only by another defense enterprise.
6



*Enterprises coping with one or more major constraints: specifically, a decline of purchasing power
domestically and in the FSU generally; a shortage of short-term financing for working capital; the
loss of markets to better quality products. These are the vast majority of enterprises and employ
about 90% of the workforce.
B. Issues in the Enterprise Sector
2.10   The major issue affecting the transition of the industrial sector to market-based behavior is
insufficient adjustment at the enterprise level. This lack of adjustment is primarily due to a complex set
of interdependent infrastructural, institutional, and capability deficiencies:
* In the infrastructure area these include: an inadequate accounting system; an inherited
enterprise sector structure with excessive labor and capital resources concentrated in medium
and large enterprises; narrow, yet high volume product range (with the local market occupying
only a fraction of installed capacity); and excessive dependence on imports.
* On the institutional side, in addition to deficient laws-relating for instance to collateral and
bankruptcy-and a weak commercial court system, the main obstacle to enterprise adjustment is
the interlocked non-market relationship between the Government, enterprises and the former
state banks which preserves the command economy approach to economic activity.
- In the capabilities area the major constraint remains an overall lack of market oriented
management skills-including lack of skills to prepare "bankable" projects for financing.
2.11   The above deficiencies all contribute to low competitiveness. Reluctance to privatize SMEs
immediately and support the entry of private SMEs (both through spin-offs of larger SOEs as well as
establishment of new SMEs) has only aggravated the current structural weaknesses and insufficient
competitiveness. The interlocking relationships noted above are making the enforcement of rmancial
discipline difficult. The negative impact of these problems is magnified by demonetization of the
economy and a shortage of medium- and long-term finance-even for the most promising of exporters.
While the above are characteristic of other small former republics of the FSU, Moldovan conditions are
more severe due to a less advantageous geographical position, weaker traditional links with European
economies, and a reluctance of foreign investors to invest-in part due to the unresolved political
situation in Transnistria.
Low Competitiveness
2.12   Enterprises aiming to shift to more competitive markets encounter major problems. The
organization of production has been such that existing companies have little, if any, process or product
flexibility. Most Moldovan industrial enterprises perform poorly at present according to common
performance indicators. The result is low working capital productivity, high energy dependence, and
very high costs. Improved production methods demand close consultation with the customer and good
relationships with a range of complementary enterprises. All too often, the lack of orders has
contributed to the preservation of production systems that lack the design, engineering, and
organizational capabilities to succeed in a market economy. Instead, the production system combines
the low productivity of short runs with the lack of flexibility of batch production systems. Product
flexibility is very limited due to a severe lack of industrial design capacity. Consumer goods
enterprises are facing a decline in sales due to declining purchasing power in the FSU and increased
7



competition from firms outside the FSU. The firms visited during project preparation have been trying
to compete by lowering prices but are finding this difficult due to the need to allocate large overheads
across a low volume of output. Even if these enterprises were able to lower significantly the costs of
production, it is unlikely that, with their present quality and design, they could increase market share.
2.13    Managerial skills required to address the deficiencies and achieve the necessary restructuring
are scarce and there is a lack of determination to manage the adjustment process through radical
changes in operations, methods, and structure. Managers of already privatized companies-lacking
basic business skills-remain driven by volumes of production and see restructuring as contingent on:
(a) the purchase of new equipment; (b) the reintroduction of soft long-term financing; and (c) the
renegotiation of preferential trade agreements with FSU countries. Substantial managerial energy is
spent on pressuring the Government to secure the above-even after the firms are privatized-thus
putting pressure on the Government to soften hard budget constraints.
2.14    Lack of adjustment is also heavily related to inadequate accounting systems and weak
motivation to change them. Accounting and financial statements are still oriented outward to feed "the
center" with window-dressed historical data rather than inward, to support managers in their decision-
making process (see Box 2). The lack of motivation was seen clearly during recent pilot liquidations
when the existing accounting procedures presented a misleadingly positive enterprise picture, and gave
managers an argument not to proceed with liquidation. There is also a fundamental disparity between
international auditors and bank managements in the assessment of commercial banks due mainly to
different accounting practices.
Box 2. Performance of selected enterprises               ... .    .......
In October 1994, the performance of eight enterprises with different ownership forms. was comparedwith that in 
1991. The volume of production had decreaseda2-5 times while costs of production increased 7-10 times du to energy
and rawf material prie rises and increases in wages. However, all etedrprises reported a positive operating margin
(operating  income less total -costs).    : i                                       ........
Such high profitability ratios are mainly due to inadequate accountting:  .. .. . .
6*  The definitioni of revenues is excessively liberal. -In addition:to production sold it includes goods sentto: clients
with little prospect of being. paid on time-if  at all and inventories with very: limited prospect of being sold;   -:'
*   Costs are counted on the FIFO basis which in an inflationary environment creates:a false impression of weCUbeing
and does not provide incentives to build up the necessary working capital; and
*   Barter transactions allow manipulation of cost and revenue figures.
Slow Entry of SMEs
2.15    There is a lack of understanding in Moldova about the importance of a growing, vibrant SME
sector for achieving a more efficient enterprise structure. The main obstacles to the growth of existing
SMEs are summarized in Box 3.
The main reasons for the very slow entry of new, especially production-related, businesses are:
* Slow pace of small-scale privatization due to the resistance to privatization of units at the level of
employees, municipalities and branch ministries.
8



*   Input markets dominated by the state and strongly linked to FSU economies. Virtually all of raw
material input comes from either the domestic market (42 percent) or FSU markets (50 percent);
the majority of domestic input is supplied by state-owned firms. Twenty percent of all companies
use barter for over 25 percent of their raw material purchases; about a quarter of manufacturers use
barter for over 50 percent of their inputs.
*   New private firms having limited access to productive assets. New equipment for many types of
activities is not produced in Moldova; second-hand and therefore cheaper equipment is still locked
up in state enterprises unwilling to sell.
Box 3, Obstacles to the Development of SMEs
A Private Sector Study covered about 100 SMEs in mid-1994. Most of the private firns pursued a mix of activities: trade
and services or manufacturing and trade. The firms-which were on average 2 years old-employed on average 17 people.
About 44 percent of firns increased turnover in the first 6 months of 1994 compared to the same period in 1993.
However, 15 percent reported losses, 16 percent broke even, and 69 percent had only small profits. Over 30 percent of
the firms exported: 2/3 of exports went to FSU, and about 114 to Central Europe. Three types of obstacles to growth
were identified:
* Financing. The main sources of start-up capital were own savings (59 percent) followed by loans from friends and/or
family. Almost all entrepreneurs need additional finance for working capital and for investment capital: 60 percent prefer
a bank loan, over 30 percent would consider venture capital, preferring a foreign partner. At present, working capital is
financed out of profits (46 percent), own savings (19 percent), customer advances (12 percent), and bank loans (6
percent). Few entrepreneurs use loan funds to finance investment capital. High interest rates are quoted as the major
problem associated with bank loans, followed by demanding collateral requirements.
* Reporting requirements for SMEs. Small and large businesses have identical filing requirements. Although simplified,
a small business spends, on average. one staff-week a month while a medium to large business spends two staff-weeks per
month fulfilling the following reporting requirements: Taxes- Road, Transport, Land, Conversion, Social Fund
contribution, Water, Profit, Value Added, excise and income tax: Financial: Balance Sheet, Financial Results,
Production and sales, Labor and wages, Cash Flow, Overview of fixed assets; Social: Social Security, Pension.
* Company registration. In order to register a company, an entrepreneur has to get permits or licenses from: the National
Company Registrar or one of its branch offices; the National Statistical Office; the registration office of the local
municipality in which the company operates; a ministry relevant for the envisaged activities, such as the Department of
Trade for import or export activities, the Ministry of Agriculture for agro-processing activities; the fiscal authorities to
register as a taxpayer; and the local mayor's office for a license, if the entrepreneur intends to begin retail activity.
Weak Financial Discipline
2.16    As in other FSU economies, weak financial discipline (soft budget constraint or soft financing) is
the result of a number of causes: weaknesses in banks' lending policies, weak enforcement of tax
obligations, activities of functional and branch ministries lobbying for different forms of subsidies, poor
payment discipline of enterprises and lack of credible threats allowing efficient collection of overdue
payments. It is also a consequence of temporary solutions available to enterprises, such as postponed
payment for energy, wages and salaries or utilization and sale of previously accumulated stocks of
inputs.
9



2.17   Inappropriate bank financing is reflected in overdue and uncollected loans. The situation is
worsening (see Figure 2). Audits of the four       Figure 2. Bank Credits Overdue
biggest banks confirmed that revolving loans, new                               160
loans to pay old ones, payment postponement and        160
rescheduling, as well as acceptance of                 120
questionable collateral are the principal techniques  .   100          81
used by the banks to hide the poor quality of their    o80    6
60
portfolio. Anecdotal evidence suggests that banks       40
continue to lend to loss-makers and recognize           20 -
them as trustworthy clients. Also banks'                 0
shareholders excessively use their privileged               Jun 94   Oct 94   Dec 94
position to borrow.                                Source: Government figures
2.18   Governmental subsidies granted to enterprises or price subsidies for selected products-while
far from being a major source of soft financing as in the past-are still present. Direct subsidies to
enterprises during the first six months of 1994 totaled Lei 52.7 million (US$12.3 million). Principal
indirect subsidies approved include governent credit guarantees, which on October 1, 1994 equaled
Lei 20.9 million (US$4.6 million) and restructuring of commercial debts as government debt-toward
the end of June 1994 the arrears of Lei 36.7 million (US$8.5 million) of Cereale at Agroindbanc were
taken over by the NBM.
2.19   Tax arrears are one of the most important sources of soft financing and at the same time the
most direct threat to the macro-economic stability of
Figure 3. Arrears for Sample of 12 Enterprises    the country. Tax arrears are growing constantly. By
(Micn ix in Nartxr 19)         October 1, 1994, enterprises owed the Government a
total of Lei 278 million (US$64.7 million): Lei 86
20                                        million (US$20 million) in excise taxes, Lei 74 million
15. -(US$17.2 million) in VAT, Lei 75 million (US$17.4
10-                                       million) in profit taxes, Lei 26 million (US$6 million)
in road taxes. By December 1, this total amounted to
Lei 331 million (US$77 million). As of December 1,
o                                        1994 the wage arrears to the Budget amounted to Lei
Taxtsm    BDv    Vh    VmW           42 million (US$9.8 million). Concentration of arrears
ard                           in the 12 enterprises with the largest arrears is
presented in Figure 3.
2.20   Inter-enterprise arrears amounted on October 1, 1994 to Lei 1.2 billion (US$280 million).
Mutual arrears were set off in May 1993 but only about 20% of the inter-enterprise arrears were
canceled as a result. These limited results are due mainly to the fact that the arrears are from the
"down-stream" enterprises to the "up-stream" ones which, in many cases, are outside the republic. In
mid-December 1994, consumers of oil products owed Lei 260 million (US$60.5 million) to the State
Fuel Association. Without downsizing through sale of assets-or in extreme cases liquidation-to satisfy
creditors, dealing with arrears only through clearance sends the wrong signal to the enterprises that
weak payment discipline would not be penalized and that the Government would bail out enterprises
again and again. Since mid 1994, pressure on debtors has increased to satisfy creditors from previously
undeclared accounts or through enforced sale of assets. The threat of liquidation or action under the
bankruptcy law is gradually starting to became a reality as the first liquidations have taken place and
some external debts, wages and pensions have been paid that would not otherwise have been.
10



2.21   Unpaid wages and salaries are another source   Table 3. Unpaid Wages and Salaries, Oct. 93-Jul. 94
of soft financing. Laying-off a redundant work force
is difficult in the present political environment.       Month          Level at the end ote month
Employees prefer to work unpaid for months, accept
Million Lei % of wagfes paid
payment in products, or accept forced unpaid leave       October 1993        11.1             17.1
rather than be made redundant, as there are few          January 1994        40.4             74.3
opportunities for new employment. The formal rate of     March 1994          80.6            113.2
unemployment is still low-the latest figures in mid-     May 1994            83.4        - 77.1
1995 show only 25,000 registered as unemployed and      July 1994            5.6             72.0
only 7,000 qualified for unemployment benefits. The      Source: Market Insttute Chisiau
level of unpaid wages and salaries through July 1994
is presented in Table 3.
2.22   Using previously accumulated stocks of raw materials and components was until recently an
important buffer against hard budget constraints. Traditionally, state enterprises hoarded stocks. They
have allowed enterprises to keep production going and to be competitive in FSU markets by avoiding
payment of new higher prices for input components. Postponing necessary adjustment was encouraged
by the adoption of FIFO cost accounting rules. For example, in wine and brandy production-where
the technological (aging) process takes many years-prices of input components are presently 3-5 times
higher than three years ago. In 1991-1993 state enterprises could buy materials at below market price
and sell them at significant profits.
2.23   Deficient and untested laws and administrative procedures to liquidate and restructure enterprises
are also an impediment to the efficient implementation of enterprise adjustment measures. Seven pilot
liquidations have been initiated under the SAL to streamline the administrative procedures, send a strong
demonstration signal to other enterprises, and open the process of selling unused assets to entrepreneurs.
These pilots highlighted deficiencies in the existing regulations and the Government is preparing a new
version to facilitate the process of liquidation and asset sales. A further 15 liquidations are planned for
mid-1995.
2.24   There are powerful incentives for all the parties not to enforce hard budget constraints. For the
Government, most of the enterprises are seen as "too big to fail." For creditors, which are often
distressed enterprises themselves, there may be value in waiting. Suppliers are reluctant to provoke a
closure of major customers. A creditor's position may give it additional control over its debtor's
behavior. Enterprises which are individually not "too big to fail" tend to create a network of inter-
enterprise payments and, therefore, disperse the potential costs of liquidation around a web of
enterprises. For banks, taking action against an undisciplined borrower may reveal the extent of the
non-performing debts in the bank's loan portfolio. For all creditors the cost of liquidation, combined
with the obligatory payments to the budget and employees, may be higher than the liquidation value of
the assets. As a result, even an improved bankruptcy law and the growth of debts may not be enough
to expand the use of bankruptcy proceedings significantly.
2.25   An adequate institutional response following the privatization and deregulation of the economy
is a prerequisite for enterprise level adjustment. The successful examples of such adjustment in Central
and Eastern Europe are based on a mix of internally-driven break-up of privatized and state-owned
medium and large enterprises and bottom-up growth of small and medium sized private businesses.
These two processes are closely related and their success depends upon the development of specific
11



institutions and skills. The streamlining of existing institutions will require the skills to turn around
insolvent and overstaffed entities. It will also require clear regulations to deal with redundancy and
with the divestiture of social assets. Downsizing and restructuring in the absence of strategic investors
is difficult. The best way to tighten financial discipline in the initial period of transition is to identify
and isolate companies requiring major adjustment, to promote their commercial revitalization and,
when necessary, liquidation. The establishment of new private businesses will require the introduction
of growth oriented skills, deregulation and easier procedures for establishing new businesses. The last
few years have shown that a quick response will not be possible without substantial external assistance
in terms of financing and skills-transfer.
C.    Financial Sector Status
2.26   Banking Structure. As of July 1, 1995 there were 22 commercial banks in Moldova: four
large, former state commercial banks, 17 new local, mainly privately owned banks, and one Romanian
bank. The banking sector is dominated by the four former state banks, the Social Bank,
Moldindconbank, the Savings Bank, and Agroindbank, jointly accounting for 67 percent of the total
credit in the banking system. They were created with a divested portfolio and liabilities and were
established in 1991 as joint-stock commercial banks, taking over the activities of Moldovan branches of
specialized FSU banks. The Social Bank focuses on small businesses, Moldindconbank on industry and
construction, while Agroindbank specializes in the agriculture and agro-industry sector. The Savings
Bank, with over 1,000 sub-branches, is the primary depository for household savings, and carries an
explicit deposit guarantee from the Government. It has begun to develop as a retail lender. A core of
new private banks has begun to emerge, some of which are growing very quickly in terms of both
capital and assets. Seven of these banks are of significant size (Bancosind, Exim, Interprinz, Mobias,
Oguz, Petrol, and Victoria) accounting for 29% of total bank credit, 35% of total regulatory capital,
21 % of total assets, and 31 % of household deposits.
2.27. Financial Condition of Banks. The four former state banks were audited in accordance with
International Accounting Standards (IAS) for the period ending December 31, 1993, with a follow-up
review of the June 30, 1994 loan portfolios. The objective was to determine the banks' credit
condition, capital adequacy, and their overall strengths and weaknesses. The audit findings reveal a
severely undercapitalized banking system: loss provisioning in three former state banks eliminated
their 1993 profits and reduced their equity to negative amounts. The exception was Agroindbank,
where equity remained positive but inadequate under NBM standards. Other weaknesses confirmed by
the audit included: inadequate credit appraisal and monitoring as well as the absence of risk
management procedures; excessive lending to shareholders and loss-making state enterprises; poor
internal financial controls and outdated management information systems; lack of experienced banking
staff; and excessive branch autonomy. Loan portfolio quality may have deteriorated further since the
audit was completed due to further lending to loss-making enterprises, excessive bank taxation,
worsening terms of trade, the further decline of trade with Russia, and recent droughts and floods. The
audit showed that the four banks needed considerable strengthening. A high percentage of non-
performing loans and excessive credit risk concentration appear prevalent in the system. There is
inadequate provisioning for non-performing loans while the GOSBANK accounting standards fail to
provide a true picture of the underlying financial health of banks.
2.28   Accounting and Auditing Framework. The international accounting firms audited the four
former state banks under the IAS. The Moldovan banks, however, continue to use the GOSBANK
accounting system, and have little incentive to convert. An extensive program of support and technical
12



assistance would be required to bring Moldovan accounting standards to internationally accepted
standards. The NBM has established a working committee with representatives of the commercial
banks to assist in reforming the accounting practices. Banks will be required to prepare and present
financial reports in compliance with Broadly Adopted Financial Statements (BAFS) format by the end
of 1995. One of element of this approach includes the utilization of BAFS as a minimum reporting
requirement in the transition to IAS. These efforts are now supported by TA provided by USAID.
However, several of the commercial banks are already currently preparing financial statements more
compatible with IAS using BAFS.
Figure 4. Changes in the Regulatory Capital of the Moldovan Commercial Banks (000 Lei)
90,000
80,000
70,000
60,000
50,000 ..                                                                    01/01/95
40,000                                                                        0L7/01/95
30,000
20,000
10,000- *-                                 - - l- . -
2                 Lo C     Eo
DDgXDmDDc  D2     E       
2 t.    mo-X-              X            0  >             5c
2.29   National Bank of Moldova. The NBM was established by the Law of the Republic of
Moldova as the central bank in 1991. The objectives of the NBM are: ensuring the stability of the
national currency, issuing money, safeguarding the nation's currency reserves, implementing monetary
and credit policy, and supervising the activities of the commercial banking system. The National Bank
Law passed by Parliament in July 1995 refines the role of NBM and strengthens its supervision
function. The operation of banks in Moldova is also governed by the Law on Financial Institutions
which was passed by Parliament in July 1995. This law sets out the powers and responsibilities of the
NBM regarding commercial banking activities. With the support of the IMF and the Bank, the NBM is
rapidly strengthening its capacity to supervise the commercial banking system according to the
provisions of the new Law.
2.30   Regulatory and Supervisory Framework. Banking supervision is addressed in both of the
above laws. Although neither the regulatory nor the supervisory framework is well established, the
13



NBM does have limited regulatory powers. These include issuance of banking licenses and supervision
of commercial banks in accordance with prudential regulations. Although the NBM can exclude
commercial banks which are not in compliance with its prudential standards from the credit auction,
and can restrict access to securities market, these are not a practical deterrent for the four former state
banks. The NBM also has the power to limit the amount of household deposits to the level of bank
capital for banks which are not in compliance with prudential standards. The NBM has no right to
demand or enforce a change in management of a commercial bank which is not complying with
prudential standards; it only has the right to recommend to shareholders that they replace a bank's
management. Nor can the NBM restrict or limit the dividends paid by commercial banks, and it can
apply monetary penalties to commercial banks after agreement of the Commercial Court.
2.31   The NBM has taken several regulatory initiatives in recent years. Prudential ratios governing
capital adequacy, legal lending limits, liquidity and reserves were introduced in June 1993. Supported
by the Bank's SAL, allowable capital, classification and provisioning guidelines were introduced in
December 1994. A new law provides for the mandatory creation of adequate reserves, encouraged by
favorable tax treatment of provisioning. A bank will not be in compliance with capital regulations until
the bank has evidence of adequate capital after setting aside sufficient provisions for possible loan
losses. Bank licensing regulations and bank auditing guidelines have also been introduced. The NBM
has adopted several additional regulatory initiatives including the introduction of risk-based capital
adequacy guidelines after the banks reach solvency. Other SAL-supported regulations include: risk-
weighted capital standards, reinstatement of regulations restraining insider lending to directors,
officers, shareholders and related interested parties; enforcement of the limit on exposure to single
borrowers of 30% of capital; and enforcement of the regulation to form an adequate allowance for loan
losses. On-site supervision was introduced in the sunmmer of 1995.
2.32   Bank restructuring. As a first step in implementing a bank restructuring strategy, NBM has
required all commercial banks to submit a statement of their capital position as of year-end 1994,
adjusted for adequate reserves and conforming to the new Credit Classification and Provisioning
Guidelines. Initial results indicate that four banks have capital deficiencies, with some banks close to
insolvency. As a result, the NBM signed Memoranda of Understanding with 11 problem banks setting
out measures necessary to reach a positive capital position by July 1, 1995. A comprehensive exercise
assisting banks in formulating "Capital Building Programs," initiated by the Bank, is in process. All
banks were advised how to prepare detailed data on their capital and financial positions as well as their
strategy for the coming two years, including a forecast for growth, plans to raise capital, and problem
areas that will need to be corrected to realize the strategy. Data will be analyzed by the project-
supported Bank Resolution Unit (BRU) located in the NBM supervision department. BRU is assisted
by USAID funded advisors. The BRU will work with problem banks to address weak points and
possible restructuring or recapitalization.
2.33   Legal framework for bank operations. The legal framework relating to collateral for bank
lending was established in December 1993. It has many deficiencies, however. There are, for instance,
deficiencies in the registration of titles, and other property rights, and a lack of a developed commercial
court system for enforcement. Financial institutions encounter difficulties in the valuation of collateral.
They are not allowed to own foreclosed property and are forced to set up separate legal entities to
dispose of foreclosed collateral. The new but weak secondary securities market impedes valuation of
financial collateral while the Law on Securities Circulation and the Stock Exchange of May 18, 1993
(the Securities Law) covers only certain types of securities and excludes, among others, treasury bonds,
bank certificates of deposits, and promissory notes.
14



2.34   The laws on the National Bank, financial institutions and taxation of banks have been adopted by
Parliament. In addition, the Securities law was amended in June 1995. A comprehensive public debt
law, which also establishes the legal foundation for book-entry government securities, is expected to be
passed by Parliament soon. Further, a revised law on bankruptcy was submitted to Parliament in June
1995. The court system and enforcement of existing laws, such as the laws of collateral and
bankruptcy, is being strengthened.
2.35   Payments, clearing and settlement system. The bank payments system has over the last year
improved in terms of the speed and efficiency of completing the payments process. Payments that used
to take several weeks to clear and settle can now be completed within a week. This improvement has
been facilitated in part by the adoption of an E-mail electronic delivery system which is used to deliver
a range of documents. However, only six banks are connected to NBM's electronic payment system,
and not all the branches of these banks are connected to the system.
D. Issues in the Financial Sector
2.36   In order to support the development of the real sector of the economy it is vital that the
financial sector be restructured so financial intermediation resumes. The volume of financial
intermediation in relation to the size of the Moldovan economy is well below that of a Western
economy of equivalent size. The Government is faced, therefore, with a number of immediate
structural and infrastructural issues in the financial sector.
2.37   Banking sector structure. To the extent possible, the restructuring of the banking sector
should take place in tandem with the restructuring of the enterprise sector. Without strong banks that
are prepared to lend to the emerging private sector on market-based principles the effective
restructuring of enterprises may not be possible. The main challenges in the banking sector at this
juncture are: a) attracting capital to back new, truly commercial financial institutions; b) regaining
confidence of the population in the banking system; and c) the restructuring and strengthening of
commercial banks. NBM has initiated a restructuring process (see para. 2.32 above) that will entail
some 11 problem banks-including three of the four large, former state banks-presenting to NBM an
acceptable recapitalization plan. The Bank and the IMF are jointly working on the preparation of a
restructuring strategy in support of NBM. The challenge for the NBM will be to precipitate the
restructuring, merger, or liquidation of insolvent banks, but to do it in a way that will not undermine
confidence in the banking system as a whole. The strong message that such a proactive approach to
restructuring will inject into the banking system will create a more disciplined approach to banking
operations in the system at large. The banks emerging from the restructuring process will be stronger
and more able to play a central role in financial intermediation.
2.38   Bank practices. Moldova's banking sector has been nominally privatized. The four large
former state banks remain, however, sensitive to pressure from the government, as well as from
industrial shareholders, in making loans. This ambiguity in ownership and control undermines market
discipline in granting loans. One major reason is that a significant portion of banking shares is owned
by large enterprises that continue to be heavy borrowers from these banks. In addition, government
pressure to make loans based on non-market criteria also adversely affect the loan portfolios. Banks
still rely on the GOSBANK accounting system, which contains inconsistencies in accounting practices,
clouding accurate assessment of the Banks' financial strength. However, by the end of 1995, banks
will be required to prepare and present financial reports in compliance with BAFS format with full
15



conversion to the new chart of accounts and IAS reporting required for all banks in Moldova by the
end of 1996.
2.39   Skills Development. There is a need for technical assistance both in the NBM and in the
commercial banks to improve a wide range of banking skills. The banks need to develop expertise,
among others, in project finance structuring and analysis, risk analysis, credit initiation, credit appraisal
and loan monitoring. There is also need for on-the-job assistance for commercial banks in bank
strategic management, human resources development, operations, treasury management and trade
finance products and services. Other weaknesses include the lack of experience in, trade finance
techniques, foreign exchange trading and its risks, and internal audit and controls. USAID has begun a
program to raise professional standards by training local bankers, while several banks have resident
Western advisors. However, more technical assistance is requiree, to expand the professional level of
the commercial bankers and NBM supervisors to reach a level competitive with their western
counterparts.
2.40   Regulatory and supervisory framework. A sound regulatory framework and strong
mechanism for banking supervision are vital prerequisites for a well functioning, solvent banking
system. The NBM, in collaboration with the IMF and in consultation with the Bankers Association in
Moldova, assisted in the drafting of the National Bank and Financial Institution Laws which have been
enacted by Parliament. The Supervision Department of the NBM has increased its staff over the last
few months but needs considerable reinforcement. While the NBM's capacity to understand, regulate
and supervise the banking system has grown recently-reinforced by the two new laws-the supervision
function needs to improve its skills in techniques of bank supervision, both on- and off-site. To support
NBM's strategy for restructuring the banking sector it will be important to develop skills within the
department of Banking Supervision for the resolution of problems associated with bank insolvency.
2.41   Credit Channeling Mechanism. There is a need to strengthen Moldovan banks-through
tailored programs of institutional development-to a point where they are able to channel medium-term
credit to private enterprises from multilateral international organizations, and other donors. In this way
banks would be able to finance the new investment needed to support the economic transition. In
recent years a number of new private banks have developed that are well capitalized and are lending on
market-based principles. These banks, which may become the core of the banking system in due
course, have the ability to absorb new skills, including those needed to channel medium-term credit.
2.42   Infrastructure Development. The infrastructure for the banking system requires significant
strengthening. The introduction of internationally accepted accounting and auditing principles, for
instance, would provide the necessary foundation for banks and their clients to function in a market
economy. The payments system should be further upgraded if it is to support the enhanced volume of
transactions expected as economic activity increases. The NBM is at the center of the payments and
clearing system and it will require extensive investment in computer hardware and software to support
the upgrading of that system. The legal, regulatory and supervisory framework for banks should also
be upgraded by improving and implementing existing laws, especially in the field of bankruptcy,
collateral, and property rights. More generally, there is a need to improve the computing and
management information infrastructure in those institutions-the NBM and the Tax Authority-that
interface with the banking system and the enterprise sector.
2.42   Capital Market Development. The legal framework for a well-functioning capital market should
be developed to support the current acceleration in the privatization process and the resulting demand for
16



an efficient securities trading mechanism. As the focal point for secondary market trading-the stock
market-develops, the parallel development of capital market infrastructure such as a share depository, a
system for clearing and settlement of shares, and a system of share registry and share ownership transfer
is required. There is also a need for a Securities and Exchange Commission, or its equivalent, to
safeguard the investing public's interests. Furthermore, it is imperative that adequate regulations
regarding investment funds are drafted to safeguard small investors.
2.43   A formal secondary market for trading shares of privatized and private companies is taking its first
steps with strong logistical support from USAID. The stock exchange-established as a joint-stock
company by a group of market operators-began operations in July 1995 while the State Securities
Commission (SSC) was appointed in mid-1995. Both institutions are at their nascent stage and require
further institutional development and staffing to create a secure and efficient secondary market. The first
priority is to create an effective supervision system for investment funds. These play a critical role in
privatization and will likely play an equally important role in the corporate governance of privatized
companies. The Capital Market Monitoring Unit, created under the auspices of USAID, is a valuable first
step in this direction and should be accommodated by the SSC. There is also an urgent need to create a
sound environment for secondary trading-reliable registrars and share depositories and a system for the
clearing and settlement of securities and related payments. The SSC should also develop and implement
licensing requirements for professional market operators: broker/dealers, investment advisors, portfolio
managers. These requirements in turn should then lead to the development of adequate and efficient
safeguards for small, unsophisticated investors who dominate the Moldovan market.
17



III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Objectives and Scope
3.1    The project is part of a broader program of support for the reform of the enterprise and
financial sectors. It was conceived because of the limited supply response to date to the stabilization
and structural reform measures being implemented under the Government's economic reform program.
The project would be supported by a proposed World Bank loan of US$35 million equivalent, and
funding from other donors, including EU (TACIS), Germany, Netherlands, and USAID, totaling US$7
million.
3.2    The principal objective of the project is to support and help accelerate the Government reform
program in the enterprise and financial sectors, focusing especially on measures enhancing the links
between commercial banks and enterprises. In particular, the project will: (a) accelerate the
emergence and growth of SMEs; (b) streamline larger enterprises and release currently unproductive
assets into the market, thus creating smaller, focused companies; (c) increase the efficiency of resource
mobilization and credit allocation through the provision of assistance to restructure the banking systs -n;
and (d) strengthen the infrastructure for banking activity, and provide institutional development si pk irt
for solvent banks. The project will have a strong demonstration effect on the whole enterprise s -crr
by showing the benefits of firm-level adjustment, and by reinforcing financial discipline through
facilitating the exit of non-viable parts of enterprises and releasing their assets into the market. In the
financial sector the project will increase the efficiency of resource mobilization and credit allocation
through the provision of assistance to restmicture the banking system, strengthen the infrastructure for
banking activity, and provide institutional development support for solvent banks.
B. Project Structure
3.3    The project will comprise two components: an enterprise sector strengthening component
(ESSC); and a financial sector strengthening component (FSSC). The ESSC will facilitate the growth
of a population of viable and competitive enterprises by providing technical assistance (TA) for
rationalizing selected larger enterprises and by providing private SMEs with the technical assistance
necessary to prepare bankable investment projects. A Bank survey of SMEs indicates that taxes and
tax administration are significant obstacles to private sector development. The ESSC will provide
computer hardware and software to assist in strengthening the ability of the Tax Administration within
the MOF to collect taxes in a timely fashion and lower transaction costs. The FSSC will provide
resources-a credit line-through qualified participating banks, for medium-term loans to private and
privatized enterprises. This component will also: (a) assist with the development of banking skills in
the participating banks; (b) strengthen the payments system through the provision of computer software
and hardware for the Clearing Center at the NBM; and (c) support further institutional development-
including automation-for NBM as a whole.
C. Enterprise Sector Strengthening Component
3.4    The enterprise sector strengthening component totals US$9.32 million, of which 53% would be
financed by the proposed Bank loan. It consists of (a) an Enterprise Assistance Program (EAP) for
US$7.4 million and (b) a Tax Administration Program (TAP) for US$1.92 million to finance the
automation of the Tax Administration in the MOF. The ESSC has the following objectives:
18



*  freeing assets presently locked in large- and medium-sized enterprises and making such assets
available for private SMEs while preserving the core businesses of streamlined enterprises;
*  stimulating decentralized, out-of-court, creditor-led action aimed at imposing financial
discipline on enterprises through rehabilitation of their businesses and debt restructuring
voluntarily agreed between owners and creditors;
*  serving as a demonstration of the positive after-effects of privatization; and
*  preparing bankable investment projects.
3.5    Enterprise Assistance Program. The EAP would assist the Government in the initiation of
market oriented adjustment of selected enterprises through the tightening of financial discipline and the
provision of supporting expertise and technical skills. Streamlining in enterprises will be achieved
through the introduction of an out-of-court, creditor-led adjustment of selected enterprises, aided by an
Enterprise Assistance Agency (EAA) established on June 21, 1995 (for details on the EAA see Chapter
IV).
3.6    Most of the activities leading to tighter financial discipline through the implementation of the
EAP would be left to a decentralized process operated by market agents including: (i) owners and
management of enterprises to be restructured; and (ii) commercial (individuals, other enterprises and
commercial banks) and public creditors (the State Budget, the Social Fund, energy suppliers and
wages). They would be advised in this process by local and foreigrf consultants.
3.7    Only private or privatized enterprises, provided they have had a general meeting of
shareholders and a Board of Directors, are eligible to participate in the EAP.
3.8    To encourage enterprises to undertake sometimes painful adjustment measures, a variety of
incentives are foreseen, including the restructuring of arrears and penalties due to public creditors and
commercial creditors (including banks). This entails a temporary moratorium on these claims and the
possibility of their restructuring, and technical assistance from international and local consultants for
which some financial contribution would be required from enterprises. Furthermore, management may
sell assets or divisions of the enterprise in a transparent and competitive way-within the general limits
pre-approved by owners.
3.9    At the same time, enterprises entering the EAP are restricted in their access to external
financing for the duration of the agreed moratorium. New credits from third parties (banks, suppliers)
will not normally be allowed during this period. This, however, does not prevent a private commercial
bank from lending money at its own risk and on its own terms to enterprises in the programs in well
documented cases (signed delivery contracts, invoices) and only for operational short-term financing of
working capital. To remain in the program, an enterprise would have to pay ongoing operational
expenses including tax as wages and energy.
3.10   Rights and Obligations of Owners. The owners of an enterprise notified by the Creditors
Committee (see 3.12) must decide whether or not (i) to accept measures negotiated with creditors or (ii)
to voluntarily initiate liquidation of the enterprise by filing for bankruptcy. The Board of Directors of a
company undertaking the EAP should include representation of external shareholders and internal ones
(managers and employees). The Board of Directors should be authorized by the owners to hire and
dismiss a chief executive officer (CEO) of the company, sign a management contract and authorize the
19



CEO to implement restructuring measures, including downsizing. Management contracts would set
post-restructuring targets and define incentives for managers that achieve the targets.
3.11    Rights and Obligations of Creditors. The proposed EAP is a voluntary alternative to the
bankruptcy procedures envisaged by the Bankruptcy Law-creditors may refuse to accept the
restructuring as proposed by a company's Board of Directors, and file for bankruptcy. Creditors act
through a Meeting of Creditors. Measures accepted at the Meeting of Creditors are binding for all
creditors.
3.12    Selection Criteria.       Cawt 1: The Creditor-led Enterprise A4ustment Progam
Entry into the EAP is to be       Tire Schedle
initiated by the State
Creditors Committee (SCC)                  Crditors                    Tirm Line                   Enterprise
representing public creditors,
established by the
Government's decree of May                                      4 T C cks
15, 1995 (see Chart 1). The
SCC will prepare a list of         The SCC serds
enterprises with debt to           the  erTKorandum c2 v*Jmks
public creditors focusing on                                                             The mandum
particular cases where there
is a high probability that                                                    4 weeks
entry in the EAP would result
in fast recovery of a                                                      <             The G/Meetirg of Shareholders:
authorizes the Board of Directors
company. Hence, the cases                                                      4 weeks   to irite credtors to negtiate
chosen should promise the
highest potential return from       The hrst Cieditars
an invested dollar of TA, in        Meeting                                                         t d
terms of fast and substantial                                   6 wks
improvement of financial           The Second Creditors MBeting
solvency and potential growth    appoves the Adjustment Ran and          o
opportunities. To participate    the debt restructuring agreemNnt                              A
in the EAP enterprises will                                                   up to 9 nahs
have to satisfy the following
criteria: (i) medium- to
large-scale enterprise,
(ii) willingness of
management and owners to
participate, (iii) export                                                      asagreed
orientation, (iv) well defined                                                                _
products and markets, (v)                                                                Loan application
sound operational capacity,
and (vi) ability and
willingness to cover a part of
the costs for the TA received. The donors (Germany, USAID, EU (TACIS)) will choose enterprises
whose probability of successful adjustment they estimate to be high.
20



3.13   Initiation of the Program. The SCC will begin the process of notifying Boards of Directors
of selected enterprises of the need to start a process of legal compliance with the Program (Annex A:
Sample Memorandum). Such a memorandum will have to be countersigned by the enterprise director
and returned to the SCC, indicating whether the enterprise agrees to call a general shareholders
meeting. Successful completion of this step would empower the enterprise's Board of Directors how
best to work out an Adjustment Plan that would have to be acceptable to enterprise's private and public
creditors. If such authorization is granted, the Board of Directors wili notify and seek the creditor's
approval for preparation of the Adjustment Plan (the First Creditor's Meeting).
3.14   The First Creditor's Meeting will decide whether to support an enterprise's attempt to prepare
an Adjustment Plan, which will imply a moratorium on the payments due to each creditor during the
preparation of the Adjustment Plan. An Adjustment Plan would include: a conservative projection of
cash flow, including one-time revenues from selling assets. It should also contain a short-term survival
plan, including: cutting costs related to energy consumption, employment, materials and components,
transportation, marketing, and overnead; collection of receivables; selling assets and/or separable
ongoing businesses; other measures J,eading to strengthening the operational cash flow; a debt
restructuring plan and assistance in the reconciliation of debts with creditors; and a three- to five-year
business plan and an investment loan application when necessary.
3.15   Work-out Phase. Once creditors have approved the preparation of the Adjustment Plan, the
Second Creditor's Meeting will vote on whether the proposed Plan is acceptable. This plan shall be
approved by a qualified majority of the creditors registered at the First Creditors' Meeting (2/3 of
creditors present at the first meeting). As a part of the approved Adjustment Plan, the creditors will sign
a debt restructuring agreement with the enterprise. Pursuant to this, the creditors will agree that during
the work-out period proposed in the Adjustment Plan (not to exceed 9 months) a moratorium on
payments on non-current debts will apply. The enterprises that successfully emerge from the Program
will begin repayment to each of the creditors in accordance with the provisions of the debt restructuring
agreement.
3.16   Conclusion of the Prcgram. After the period of adjustment, the enterprise should graduate as
a financially viable entity. If it cannot satisfactorily adjust, public and/or private creditors may
undertake measures leading to the termination of the company. The SCC will be obliged to initiate a
bankruptcy proceeding on behalf of the public creditors against enterprises (i) that reject entry into the
Program; (ii) whose creditors reject the preparation of an Adjustment Plan; (iii) whose creditors reject
the proposed Adjustment Plan or (iv) that fail to successfully implement the Adjustment Plan.
D. Financial Sector Strengthening Component
3.17   The objectives of this component are fourfold. The first is to provide medium-term financing
for newly privatized and other private sector enterprises. The second is to establish a robust channel
for credit lines in the context of a strengthened regulatory and supervisory environment for banks. The
third objective is to provide an incentive for participating banks to strengthen themselves to become
core banks in the Moldovan banking system. The final objective is to support the institutional
development of those parts of the NBM that interface closely with the private banking system.
3.18   The FSSC consists of the following sub-components: (i) financial support for the Credit
Program, including an SME window; (ii) institutional strengthening and technical support for the TU,
21



the Bank Resolution Unit and participating financial intermediaries (PFIs); (iii) strengthening of the
Payments, Clearing and Settlement System; and (iv) automation of the NBM.
3.19   To become a PFI, private commercial banks would have to meet a set of stringent financial and
management criteria and have signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) with the TU. Potential PFIs
would have to be individually appraised by the TU and be satisfactory to the Bank. A precondition for
any bank to become eligible would be to have its financial statements audited by external auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The evaluation of a PFI would focus on five main areas: (i) capital adequacy,
(ii) asset quality, (iii) management effectiveness, (iv) earnings performance, and (v) liquidity. The
specific eligibility criteria were confirmed at negotiations (see Annex B). As a condition of loan
effectiveness, two Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to the Bank must have been signed. While
the banking sector of Moldova is in need of serious restructuring, at least one large and two smaller
banks are expected to meet the eligibility criteria immediately. Temporary deviations from the
eligibility criteria could be allowed as long as the SLA to be entered into between the TU and PFI
includes a custom-made program of recapitalization and/or institutional development. Such programs
would include a negotiated timetable for implementation, and could be supported by the technical
assistance sub-component for the banking system.
3.20   The demand for medium-term credit. As Moldova's economy stabilizes, privatized
enterprises and new entrepreneurs will require access to medium-term financing to support the
investment needed to restructure the economy. In the context of a Bank survey of SMEs, virtually all
entrepreneurs (92%) cited the lack of longer-term financing as a constraint on their operations, and
expressed interest in drawing on the proposed line of credit. T'he survey estimates the pipeline for the
SME borrowing to be in the order of US$40 million. This estimate may be at the high end of the
demand range and may not reflect the actual numbers of sub-projects that are "bankable." However,
the investment needs of the restructured larger enterprises may, in addition, boost the demand estimate.
Accordingly, the US$27 million credit line should be adequately sized to meet a significant proportion
of demand in the project pipeline, taking into account the limited availability of foreign exchange
facilities in Moldova. The binding constraint in defining the size of the credit component has been the
estimated absorptive capacity of the banks- -i.e., their ability to channel additional loan funds without
violating prudential regulations. The regulatory capital of the banksI determines the additional funds
banks can channel. The NBM's prudential regulations limit the maximum loan size to a single
borrower to 30% of this regulatory capital. At present the absorptive capacity of Moldovan banks
appears limited due to the insolvency of a number of banks caused by their need for extensive
provisioning. However, some banks-the initial focus of the proposed credit line-have had success in
issuing new shares. Experience in other FSU countries shows that bank capital has the potential to
grow quite quickly in some instances. See Box 4.
NBM Regulation of May 31, 1995 on Risk Weighted Capital Adequacy defines regulatory capital as Tier I + Tier II capital
minus loan loss provisioning and investments into other banks, and capital adequacy as regulatory capital divided by risk-
weighted assets.
22



Box 4. Improvements in the Banking Sector
In the auturn of 1994, the Bank screened some of the smaller banks in Moldova for their eligibility to become a possible
intermediary for SME lending. The Bman* discussed the criteria for eligibility and the required performance and financial
structure improvements with two possible candidates, Both banks successfully followed up on the Bank's recomnendations for
improvement. One bank has significantly diluted its concentrated ownership (and connected lending portfolio) by issuing shares
to private individuals, increasing shares in the hands of private individuals from 6 to 47 percent and decreasing the share of the
10 major shareholders (SOEs and former SOEs) from 70 to 39 percent. The second bank has undertaken steps to reduce its bad
debt by: the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings against clients, cutting costs of administration to increase its profit margin, and
proposing to shareholders deferral of dividend payments and measures to raise additional capital The commercial eligibility of
these banks was confinned in a subsequent, November 1995 mission.
3.21    Credit mechanism and bank eligibility: The credit line will be channeled through a TU in
NBM and then on to PFIs. PFIs would on-lend the proceeds to private enterprises using market-based
principles. The PFI would carry the risks associated with the on-lending. The project will seek to
strengthen incentives for sound institutional development of newly formed commercial banks by
establishing strong criteria for participation in the line of credit.
3.22   Regulatory and Supervisory Frarnework: As a backdrop to the proposed credit line, Bank
preparation missions have discussed extensively with the NBM the legal, regulatory, and supervisory
environment for the banks. The NBM has made considerable efforts to strengthen prudential
supervision of banks and is supported by a comprehensive program of technical assistance coordinated
by the IMF. To ensure that the regulatory environment is sound enough for the channeling of the
proposed credit line, an implementation program for a number of measures to strengthen the
supervisory framework-noted below-was agreed with the Governrment during project preparation.
3.23   The amended Central Bank and Financial Institutions Laws accord the NBM additional
enforcement authority. The NBM needs to develop the capacity to use these powers effectively.
Although the growth in the capacity of the NBM to supervise the banking system has improved
recently, the Supervision Department needs to develop a sound institution building program. This
program would include the development of the structure and staffing of the Supervision Department as
well as a plan for the expansion of off-site and on-site supervisory capacities. As a condition for Board
presentation, banking regulations satisfactory to the Bank have been put in place, satisfactory progress
has been nade in the enactment of an Institutional Development and Action Plan for the Banking
Supervisory Department of the NBM. As a condition of effectiveness, the new Financial Institutions
Law has come into force.
3.24   If more banks are to become strong intermediaries capable of intermediating external medium-
term foreign currency credit, a major restructuring of the banking sector must be initiated. However, to
develop and enact such a strategy NBM will need significant assistance from the Bank and other
donors. With the support of a Bank preparatory mission, NBM agreed to form a Bank Resolutions
Unit (BRU) in its Supervision Department in June 1995. The objectives of the unit are threefold: (a) to
follow-up on deficiencies identified during the bank examination process; (b) to formulate market-based
resolutions prior to liquidation and; (c) to intervene in the conservatorship of troubled banks. The main
role of the BRU would be the compliance function. It would act upon findings of deficiencies from on-
site examinations and off-site surveillance. The BRU would intensively scrutinize the problem areas in
troubled banks. The compliance function would also intensify the scope and frequency of reporting
23



requirements for troubled banks. Its major role would bc to formulate corrective programmatic
measures in collaboration with the banks' management, the goal being to rehabilitate troubled banks by
correcting their underlying deficiencies. The scope of the work would include review and evaluation of
management's strategic plans, a.nd assessment of their feasibility. The objectives of these corrective
action plans would be qualitative and quantitative, designed to remedy identified weaknesses. BRU
would sell, merge or liquidate banks that fail to recapitalize. USAID is providing assistance (US$1
million) in the form of bank resolutions experts to advise the BRU. The structuring and financing of
BRU was agreed with the NBM during project preparation.
3.25   The Supervision Department is receiving additional assistance from the Bank preparatory team
in formulating remedial action plans for the banks. These action plans-structured jointly by the banks
and NBM guidelines-will cover qualitative and quantitative steps designed to improve the banks'
performance. Completion of the remedial action plans by the banks will allow the NBM to assess the
condition of the banks and monitor their remedial progress.
3.26   Institutional strengthening of the Technical Unit, the Bank Resolution Unit and the
commercial banks. The Technical Unit will be supported by TA cofinanced by the Government of
Netherlands (US$1.1 million to finance two foreign specialists for 2-3 years, local staff training, and
office equipment). PFIs will be eligible for two types of technical assistance. Banks that meet specific
eligibility criteria established by the TU will be able to participate in a special "Windows Program."
The selected banks will be expected to establish special-preferably independent-small business
lending units (the "windows"). The loan officers will receive training from experienced small business
bankers from the West who will be seconded to the intermediaries for at least one year. They will
assist the banks with setting up loan screening and monitoring systems and will be members of the
banks' loan committees. The design of the program is based on world-wide experience with conditions
for successful and sustainable small business credit lines. Tranches of US$500,000 will be made
available for eligible banks to on-lend to SMEs. The Government of the Netherlands will support this
program with US$1 million. Banks not eligible or not interested in taking part in the Windows
Program, will be able to avail themselves of alternative technical assistance made available through the
TU. Such technical assistance would comprise help in areas such as credit analysis, financial
management, planning and budgeting, internal audit, and management information systems. The latter
technical assistance will be financed by an allocation of US$0.4 million under the proposed Loan.
3.27   Development of the Payments. Clearing and Settlement System. Another important area
where NBM interfaces with the commercial banking system is through its role at the heart of the
payments, clearing and settlement system. The payments system in Moldova needs to be upgraded if it
is to support the expected increase in economic activity in the emerging private sector (see Annex D).
Only six banks are connected to the payments system of the NBM. A study financed by EU (TACIS)
on the payments system concluded that the existing Email-based system does not, at present, provide
sufficient security, recovery capability, or operational reliability to be used as the electronic delivery
mechanism for a modern payments system. The study contains a number of recommendations to
improve, for the short-term, the reliability and security of the existing system. Longer-term
recommendations were also put forward for improving both electronic payments delivery and banks'
internal payments processing. It is estimated that hardware and software, valued at US$0.68 million is
needed for an immediate upgrade of the Clearing Center in the NBM and the computer interfaces in
commercial banks. As a condition of loan disbursement under this subcomponent, the NBM has agreed
to present to the Bank a fully-costed plan for payments system automation.
24



3.28   Automation of the National Bank of Moldova. The NBM is the key state institution that
interfaces with the commercial banking system. Its function as supervisor of the banks and as the
implementor of monetary policy means that it has a significant impact on the evolving structure of, and
liquidity in the banking system. It is important that NBM be provided with institutional development
support so that it can increase the efficiency with which it handles its key functions. The NBM is
currently constrained in its ability to conduct monetary policy and oversee the functioning of the
banking system by weaknesses in its data bases, analytical capabilities, management information
systems, and other aspects of its computer environment. The NBM has therefore embarked on a
program of development of its hardware and software capabilities. The existing computers break down
often, and local support is not available. In the Banking Supervision area, enforcement of the new
prudential regulation standards will require a redesign of the NBM systems to provide better capacity
for regulatory reporting and off-site supervisory analysis. An IMF Mission has been working with the
NBM to determine system requirements and implementation costs. The NBM's information technology
plan calls for the acquisition of networked workstations, and accompanying application software:
operating systems, data bases, analytical systems and accounting systems. Annex C presents the
information technology plan, and budget. The automation program is estimated to cost US$2.0
million, of which the Bank loan will finance US$1.55 million. The balance will be financed by the
NBM. As a condition of loan disbursement under this subcomponent the NBM has agreed to present to
the Bank a fully-costed plan for the automation of the NBM.
E. Economic Analysis and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.29   Policy Environment. Moldova is one of the most disciplined and successful countries of the
FSU in introducing and maintaining severe macroeconomic stabilization measures. Its budget deficit
has been reduced to 4.0% of GDP in 1995 while the annual inflation rate is below 10%. Stabilization
of the domestic currency vis-a-vis the US dollar has substantially increased the transparency of
enterprise activities in the industrial sector as well as their competitiveness in domestic and foreign
markets. Export taxes and quantitative import restrictions have been removed, and the maximum
import tariff reduced to 20%. Budget subsidies to the industrial sector have been limited to relatively
insignificant levels and their procedures have become more transparent.
3.30   Price distortions have been largely eliminated. Interest rates are determined at auction; over
eighty percent of credit is made available through refinancing auctions and the remaining credit is
offered at the auction-determined monthly interest rate. The exchange rate has been unified and
foreign exchange is purchased at regular inter-bank auctions. Commodity prices in both domestic and
foreign trade have been liberalized with only a very few exceptions (due to be removed in December
1995). Consequently, the risk of a downward shift in rates of return on particular projects due to the
removal of policy related advantages is low.
3.31   Core Economic Objective. The main objective of the project is to shift enterprise adjustment
and credit allocation decisions to market forces. The fast pace of privatization, with an exclusive use of
the mass privatization approach, has left behind unsolved problems. These include an excessive
concentration of resources in existing, mostly inefficient and uneconomic industrial structures and the
continued operation of the remnants of a collapsed central planning system. The purpose of the Project
is to jump-start the country's emergence from this growih-inhibiting and market-hostile situation. This
will be done by providing a balance of incentives and penalties together with the required information
and expertise to assist market participants to make good economic and financial decisions and create a
self-sustaining market process. To achieve this objective, the Project will build the institutional and
25



regulatory capacity to carry out creditor-led restructuring, free assets, and create financing
opportunities.
3.32   Achievement of Core Economic Objective. The proposed creditor-led restructuring of
privatized enterprises is designed to free assets to help increase the number of small enterprises (the
supply side). Publicly sponsored promotion, including an SME small-banking loan window, will
support the small enterprise sector, building on approaches used successfully in Poland and Russia.
The need to increase financing opportunities available to SMEs is addressed in a twofold way:
strengthening commercial banks in their capacity to lend and making technical assistance available to
emerging private businesses to prepare bankable projects. At present, commercial banks are not only
short of resources to lend, they also have difficulty in articulating their long-term lending policy and in
assessing the available lending projects. The lack of these capacities in the banks often results in (i)
excessively risky lending to projects promising unrealistically high rates of re-turn (mostly in trade) or
(ii) offering "rescue lending" to selected enterprises with little concern about the enterprise's or the
bank's future-at the expense of sound projects in manufacturing and services.
3.33   The Project has already had a visible impact on policy-establishing new relations between the
Government and enterprises through a newly created conimittee of public creditors and the promotion
of a non-governmental agency supporting enterprise efforts to become more competitive and market
oriented. By facilitating the streamlining and downsizing, opening the channel for asset sales,
introducing voluntary liquidations and supporting leaner bankruptcy procedures, the Project builds a
strong base for the growth of new, smaller and better focused enterprises and has increased the demand
for credit for bankable projects, part of which would be met by the proposed PSD credit line
component.
3.34   Institutional Capacity and Regulatory Framework. The Project has initiated and is
supporting a network of non-governmental institutions and related supporting activities: the EAA,
business centers, consulting firms oriented to small and medium enterprises, and training programs for
the enterprise and banking sectors. In addition, the judicial system is being strengthened in its capacity
to deal with commercial cases (bankruptcy and restructuring). The project is also supporting the
development of an appropriate legal and regulations framework.
3.35   New institutions and a regulatory framework will be of little use if there are no commercial
entities sufficiently motivated to use them. The proposed TA to enterprises, available through the
EAA, will facilitate the process of creditor-led restructuring by decreasing the level of information
asymmetry between the management of a company and its creditors -- thereby balancing the bargaining
power of the two parties. Presently, managers of former state enterprises grossly overvalue the assets
of their companies as well as their ability to generate positive cash flows. This is mostly due to their
valuation of production capacity based on historical costs of investments in fixed capital, and too
optimistic an assessment of potential markets. On the other hand, creditors are at a significant
disadvantage as market verification of the assertions of managers is not available. In this case, a sound
assessment of the potential gains or losses available from keeping a business going, versus liquidation
(or substantial streamlining), is difficult if not impossible to determine; often the outcome is deadlock,
and both sides lose. TA will lead to a narrowing of this information gap.
3.36   To accelerate the positive demonstration effects of this pilot program and increase the number
of financially eligible projects, the preparatory costs of credit applications and evaluation would be
supported by grant-funded TA. Such TA will also promote the development of expertise in the
26



qualifying commercial banks to evaluate credit applications better, deal with debt restructuring, and
lower the level of risk in the lending portfolio.
3.37   Fiscal Impact. The line of credit will be fully self-sustaining. Expected on-lending margins will
cover the costs the Technical Unit incurs while it operates and supervises the loan disbursement, as
well as the risk of a default of PFIs. In addition, the technical assistance available to enterprises will
create new value-added to be allocated between both sides of a contract-the enterprise and its
creditors-including the State budget. Early results from the pilot stage of the project indicate that tax
revenue from participating enterprises has already risen significantly. In this sense, the budget can
expect positive net fiscal results over the medium term and therefore treat the financing of TA as an
investment. The state budget is usually one of the biggest creditors. Money spent on TA will be
recouped by collecting overdue and current taxes, which otherwise would not be collectable. The
successful implementation of the restructuring programs will result in the broadening of the tax base-
through restructured companies, new businesses spun-off from downsized companies, and commercial
creditors who, in many instances are currently unable to pay taxes themselves. Jobs will be generated
in the core businesses of restructured companies and interrelated networks of companies, yielding
additional tax revenue and limiting budgetary and quasi-budgetary severance payments and
unemployment benefits.
3.38   Analysis of Alternatives. During project preparation, an in-depth analysis of four possible
channels for medium- and long-term funds was undertaken. In addition to a credit line, these included
the creation of a venture capital fund, a credit cooperative, and a leasing company. The research
showed that the credit line was the best and most operational option at this stage; the other alternatives
also generated significant benefits but required further institutional and regulatory development before
the risks and costs they entailed could be well managed and reduced to reasonable levels. Specifically,
the strengthening of private commercial banks to manage risk, as required to support the credit line, is
the most cost-effective way of mitigating risk in the short-term while still making medium to long-tern
fmance available. Once current efforts to strengthen property rights to land and fixed assets, to
improve registration and to increase enforcement of collateral and bankruptcy procedures are further
advanced, and the appropriate legislation has been passed, with specialists trained in the new
procedures, then the ability to reduce risk and enable repossession of on-lent funds will be enhanced to
the stage where the other options will become attractive.
3.39   Cost-benefit Analysis. A study of small businesses completed during project preparation,
along with interviews with managers of a number of privatized enterprises, indicate that financial rates
of return to the line of credit sub-projects will exceed the borrowing costs of the PFIs. Available
business proposals show that existing and new ventures in manufacturing and services wouid be able to
afford an annual interest rate around 16% (in US dollar terms).
3.40 On average, financial rates of return correctly reflect expected economic rates of return; there
are no major distortions which could result in a systematically biased allocation of capital or in quasi-
rents for some borrowers. Financial rates of return are likely to remain higher than economic rates of
return because of the large number of investment opportunities in new products and services and the
persistent scarcity of available capital. As foreign trade has already been liberalized, Moldovan
enterprises are already facing competitive prices and will not be able to benefit from protection under
the current trade regime. Growing competitiveness and openness of markets will reduce costs through:
rationalization of employment and energy use, removing the inefficiencies of barter transactions,
shortening investment cycles, and improving the quality and availability of information.
27



3.41   Analysis of the sensitivity of the estimated rates of return to possible policy changes and
sovereign risks can only be tentative. However, the continuing progress in improving the policy
environment and implementing strict macroeconomic measures, and the growing geopolitical
stabilization, strongly indicate that the number of opportunities for profitable business will grow. The
proposed line of credit can easily be topped up if it proves successful.
3.42   The project is expected to generate substantial positive externalities through its demonstration
effects, and by increasing the demand for credit (the number of potentially bankable projects prepared
in the rapidly growing private sector) and matching it with an efficient supply of credit (the number of
PFIs graduating from the Bank's rehabilitation program and approving sub-loans solely on the basis of
market criteria). While the total value of the project is relatively small in relation to the overall
investment needs of the economy, it is expected these demonstration effects will accelerate the
mobilization of investor interests through follow-up credits and investments into more competitive and
better, structurally-adjusted enterprise and banking sectors.
3.43   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank is committed to assist Moldova in pursuing its
program of economic reforms and its efforts to launch a sustainable economic recovery.
Notwithstanding the introduction of macro-stabilization and significant structural reforms, the response
of the enterprise and financial sectors has been slow. Given the central role these two sectors will play
in transforming the economy in the direction of positive growth, it is now vital to focus efforts on their
simultaneous restructuring.
3.44   In the enterprise sector, the Bank is supporting the Government in its efforts to increase the
role of the private sector, both through the acceleration of the privatization process and by facilitating
the development and growth of new private firms. In the context of the recent SAL, the Bank
supported the Government in its efforts to create a competitive environment and tighten financial
discipline throughout the economy, thus inducing faster adjustment at the enterprise level. The pilot
liquidation of seven SOEs has helped the private sector gain access to unused state assets and has sent a
strong signal through the enterprise sector about the Govermnent's resolve to enforce a hard budget
constraint. The Government's degree of May 15, 1995 on "Critical Measures for Improving the
Financial-Economic Standing of Industrial Enterprises," drafted with the Bank's support during project
preparation, introduces a decentralized, creditor-led debt reconciliation and restructuring program.
The Bank is supporting, also through project preparation, the development of SMEs by removing
constraints that have impeded their growth and by mobilizing grant resources to finance the acquisition
of key business skills.
3.45   In the financial sector, the Bank has had a continuing dialogue with the NBM, the financial
institutions and the Governrment. The Bank is providing assistance in developing a restructuring
strategy for the Moldovan banking sector. The objective is to develop a robust financial system that
can effectively mobilize domestic and foreign resources and on-lend them to viable enterprises. The
Bank is working very closely with the IMF on issues of financial sector strategy in Moldova. A
common approach is being adopted on the key reform issues which is having a powerful positive
influence on the NBM. The proposed project would also enhance the scope for using the Pre-Export
Guarantee Facility, as local banks' capacity would be developed allowing them to assume their normal
role in working capital financing.
28



3.46   The Bank has played the leading role in coordinating major donors involved in post-
privatization restructuring of the economy. It is the only institution currently active in Moldova which
is able to maintain a policy debate with the Government on essential framework reforms across
differing sectors while also orchestrating specific technical interventions designed to support the reform
process in practical ways.
3.47   The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy envisions that the primary impetus to growth will
come from unleashing the private sector. The proposed project, with its emphasis on creating a
supportive policy environment and through its support of simultaneous restructuring of the enterprise
and financial sectors, will play a major role in stimulating the private sector.
3.48   This project is not intended to have a poverty focus, nor is it expected to have any negative
environmental effects.
F. Detailed Project Costs and Financing Plan
3.49   The total project cost is US$49 million of which US$35 million equivalent will be financed by a
two tranche US dollar and DEM Single Currency Loan. The Enterprise Sector Strengthening
component totals US$9.32 million of which US$4.92 million will be financed by the IBRD loan.
US$7.40 (US$3 million from IBRD) will assist the Government in the initiation of market oriented
adjustment of selected enterprises through the tightening of financial discipline and the provision of
supporting expertise and technical skills. In addition, US$1.92 million (IBRD) will finance automation
of the Tax Administration in the Ministry of Finance. The Financial Sector Strengthening component is
dimensioned as US$39.68 (US$30.08 million IBRD), of which US$4.55 million (US$0.4 million
IBRD) will be for technical assistance to selected commercial banks and a TU which will channel
US$27.45 million equivalent of credit lines from the loan and US$5 million of Government counterpart
funds. In addition, US$2.5 million (US$1.55 million, IBRD) will finance computer equipment for the
automation of an information system crucial to NBM's ability to monitor participating banks, and
US$0.68 million (IBRD) will finance the upgrading of the Payments, Clearing and Settlement System.
3.50   The total project cost for the Enterprise Assistance Program (EAP) is estimated at US$7.4
million. TA will be used to support enterprises in their restructuring efforts through the provision of
restructuring professionals. The amount and costs of technical assistance will vary depending on the
individual enterprise size, its organizational complexity, financial and market situation, as well as the
abilities of its management and staff to adjust. Minimal resources will be designated for the overall
coordination and administration of the process by the EAA. It is envisaged that a substantial, and
growing part of the resources would be used to finance local experts.
3.51   The technical assistance part of the project constitutes part of the broader effort by the Bank,
the Government and the international donor community to support the implementation of the
Government's reform program in the Enterprise and Financial Sectors. EU (TACIS) has agreed to
support the EAA with ECU 1 million, the German Government has positively responded to the request
of the Moldovan Government to commit at least US$0.5 million for the implementation of the Pilot
Program and indicated a likelihood to support further implementation of the Program. Domestic
financing (US$0.5 million equivalent) is envisaged from cash privatization proceeds, allocated from the
state budget and cost-sharing by participating enterprises. The main merit of this source is that it
demonstrates the Government's commitment to the Program and its objectives. The Government is
also expected to support the EAA by in-kind grants such as office space, office equipment, and
29



telephone lines. In the financial sector, the Government of the Netherlands has positively responded to
the request of the Moldovan Government to support the TU with US$1. I million and SME advisors in
commercial banks with US$1 million, while USAID is assisting the BRU with US$1 million.
3.52   Eligible subborrowers are all private enterprises or newly-privatized enterprises, and therefore
are independent of the government. These enterprises are responsible for managing their own foreign
exchange risk. Moreover, participating banks will take the full credit risk of the subloans, and will
have full autonomy in selecting subprojects ex ante, subject to the credit line guidelines. It is expected
that funds available under the single currency loan (SCL) component will be onlent to borrowers which
have a need for a foreign currency loan because they earn revenues in foreign exchange. Surveys
conducted by potential participating banks indicate that a substantial number of existing borrowers
generate revenues in foreign exchange, virtually all of which is in US dollars. As part of the eligibility
criteria of subborrowers and projects, participating banks will be expected to include in their credit
appraisals a demonstration that the currency and terms of the subloans are appropriate given the
projected revenues of the subborrowers.
3.53   The Government is proposing to use US$5 million equivalent in domestic currency to cofinance
with the Bank's credit line. The funds will be channeled through the TU to PFIs on market terms. It is
expected that henceforth the Government will use the TU as its primary mechanism for channeling
credit from the budget to enterprises.
Detailed Project Costs
US$ million equivalent
FOREIGN COSTS        COMPONENT
PROJECT COMPONENT                  COSTS          AS% OF TOTAL       COSTS AS %TOTAL
LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL       COST            PROJECT COST
ENTERPRISE SECTOR STRENGTHENING
EAP                                 .50   6.90    7.40            93 %                  15%
MOFlTax Admin.                             1.92    1.92          100 %                  4%
FINANCIAL SECTOR STRENGTHENING
Credit Funds                        5.00   27.45   32.45          85 %                  65 %
SME Windows                                1.00    1.00          100 %                  2%
PIU                                 .15             .15            0%                    0%
TU                                  .70   1.50    2.20            68%                    5%
BRU                                 .20   1.00    1.20            83 %                   3%
Payments,/Clearing                         .68      .68          100%                    1%
NBM Automation                      .45   1.55    2.00            78 %                   4%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   7.00  42.00   49.00           86 %                100.0 %
30



Detailed Financing Plan
US$ million equivalent
Project Component          Local                             Foreign                        TOTAL    % IBRD
MOF/  Firms    IBRD   Netherlands         EU      Germany   USAID                Finance
NBM                                    JTACIS)
ENTERPRISE
SECTOR
STRENGTHENING
EAP                                .50    3.00                      1.50     2.00       .40      7.40       41 %
MOF/Tax Admin.                            1.92                                                   1.92      100%
FINANCIAL SECTOR
STRENGTHENtNG
Credit Funds             5.00            27.45                                                  32.45       85 %
SME Windows                                            1.00                                      1.00          0
TU                        .70              .40         1.10                                      2.20       18 %
PIU                       .15                                                                    .15           0
Bank Resolution Unit      .20                                                          1.00      1.20          0
Payments,/Clearing                         .68                                                    .68      100 %
NBM Automation            .45             1.55                                                   2.00       78 %
TOTAL PROJECT
COSTS                       6.50    0.50   35.00         2.10           1.50    2.00      1.40    49.00       71%
31



IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTA TION
A. Implementation Arrangements
4.1    The Executing Agency for the Borrower (the Republic of Moldova) would be the MOF, within
which there would be a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) responsible for overseeing and coordinating
the implementation of the two components of the Project. The PIU would coordinate with the
governrnent entities in charge of each component of the Project. Furthermore, the PIU would liaise
with the World Bank and, once the Bank loan becomes effective, would be authorized to request
disbursements from the Loan Account and be in charge of opening and administering the associated
Special Account. The organizational structure, staffing needs and the basic budgeting requirements for
the PIU have been agreed with the Government of Moldova. The PIU would be part of the External
Financing Department of the MOF and would require the budgeting of two additional professional staff
members, who would be in charge of the day-to-day functions of the PIU. The Director of the PIU
would be a senior member of the External Financing Department who would work part-time on this
assignment.
B. Enterprise Sector Strengthening Component
4.2    Enterprise Assistance Program (EAP). The Enterprise Assistance Agency (EAA) would be
the managing and coordinating unit for the technical assistance to be supplied from international and
domestic sources for the EAP. Funding for this US$7.4 million subcomponent cost would be
channeled through the PIU to the EAA in the form of non-reimbursable allocations from the
Governmeent. Efforts would be made to fund the bulk of this component with foreign grants. Several
grant sources have already been identified and discussed with the Authorities. Nonetheless, about
US$3 million is expected to require financing from the Bank loan. Financial arrangements for this
subcomponent would be formalized under a Funds Transfer Agreement to be entered between the
MOF, on behalf of the Republic, and the EAA. The guidelines for such a Funds Transfer Agreement
were reviewed with the Authorities during project preparation, and it was agreed that a satisfactory
version of such an Agreement will be signed by the parties and delivered to the Bank prior to
effectiveness.
4.3    The EAA is a non-governmental, not-for-profit, independent legal entity, supervised by the
Supervisory Board, consisting of three members appointed by the Government (including an ex-officio
chairman of the Board), 2 representatives of local entrepreneurs, and 2 appointed by donors financially
supporting the Agency. The daily operations of the EAA are managed by the Executive Director-a
Moldovan citizen with relevant professional qualifications. EAA was established on July 15, 1995.
The supervisory Board of EAA had its first meeting on July 26, 1995 and appointed the Executive
Director.
4.4    The objective of the EAA will be to manage the technical assistance necessary for the EAP,
recruitment of local consultants to participate in teams working in enterprises, facilitation of contacts of
particular donors and restructuring teams with the administration, and quality control of the work of
consultant's teams. The original scope of the activity may be extended into other areas related to post-
privatization reforms e.g., capital markets and real estate reform.
32



4.5    The State Creditors' Committee (SCC) will prepare the list of enterprises eligible for isolation
on the basis of information on debt levels from the Monitoring Unit in the MOF. The SCC will also
recommend actions on behalf of public creditors. The Ministry of Finance will monitor arrears of
individual enterprises to public creditors and timely payment of current obligations. During the
Program, the MOF will provide assurances that there is no soft financing flowing in a non-transparent
manner from the budget or the capital markets. The NBM will supervise the isolation from the banking
sector.
4.6    To facilitate a fast start-up of the project a pilot program has been initiated during project
preparation. In this pilot, 10 SOEs are being restructured as a SAL second tranche condition to
facilitate development of local restructuring skills and allow fine-tuning of the procedures.
4.7    State Tax Administration (STA). Under this sub-component US$2 million would be allocated
to cover expenditures associated with the implementation of a four-phase program over two years
covering the purchase of computer equipment (hardware and software), its installation, associated start-
up costs and the training of local staff to operate the system. This automation program supports
broader reforms in tax policy and administration designed to achieve the Government's stabilization
objectives and provide a broad-based tax system appropriate to a modern decentralized economy. At
the adniinistrative level, all taxpayers will receive taxpayer identification numbers, audit and inspection
practices will become specialized and targeted only at evasion, forms will be simplified and data
requirements reduced, and filing requirements will be streamlined and reduced. Computerization will
be introduced in stages based on simplified procedures and experience with pilots. Assessment
processes will be automated and information sources will be electronically linked to other relevant
authorities including Customs and the Treasury system in the MOF. Businesses will be able to file by
electronic means. The executing agency for this sub-component will be the STA at the MOF. The
implementation program is described in detail in Annex E. The Minister of Finance has asked the IMF
to review the program and to supervise its implementation. Presentation of the fully costed
implementation plan, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of disbursement under this sub-
component. It is also expected that the IMF will oversee all stages of implementation to ensure that the
program adheres to the standards agreed.
C. Financial Sector Strengthening Component
4.8    The Credit Line. The credit line would be managed by a TU established at the NBM. The
NBM would act only as a fiscal agent and would not take any of the credit risks involved in the
intermediation of funds to the private sector. The role of the NBM in the intermediation of the credit
line would be defined in a Fiscal Agency Agreement to be entered into between the Government and
the NBM. The TU would channel funds to participating financial intermediaries, which would on-lend
the credit line resources to their private sector clients. Credit line resources would be available from
two sources: (i) US$27.45 million equivalent from the 20-year maturity Bank loan, and (ii) a
Government-funded Leu co-financing facility of up to US$5 million equivalent, to be funded by
allotments in the National Budget over a three-year period. These sources were confirmed at
negotiations. Also, a Fiscal Agency Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, would have to be signed as a
condition of loan effectiveness.
4.9    The Technical Unit. The TU would be a newly-created Apex within the NBM, under the
direction of an NBM official with a solid academic background and preferably with practical lending
33



experience. Its purpose would be to manage the credit line of the proposed Project. The TU would
have four main functions: (i) the selection of participating banks and the monitoring of their continued
eligibility for the intermediation of the credit line resources; (ii) the development and implementation of
the credit line regulations, including on-going supervision of their compliance by PFIs and final
borrowers; (iii) the day-to-day management of, and access to, the credit line by PFIs for onlending to
final borrowers; and (iv) the management of the TA needed to develop in Moldovan banks the skills
required for lending to private investment projects. Decisions by the TU would be made following a
two-step approach. The director of the TU, in charge of the day-to-day affairs, would make formal
recommnendations to the TU Committee, which would include representatives of the MOF and the
MOE, in addition to the NBM. The TU's work would be guided by two basic documents each of
which must be acceptable to the Bank: (i) the Operational Procedures of the TU, and (ii) the Credit
Line Regulations Manual (CLRM). The organizational chart for the TU, already agreed with the
Moldovan Authorities, is shown in Chart 1. Two Western banking experts would be recruited to staff
the senior technical positions reporting to the director. A preliminary version of the Statutes of the TU
were discussed with the authorities at the MOF and the NBM during appraisal.
4.10  In order to cover Chart 2: Organizational Chart of the Technical Unit
its operational costs, the
TU would be allowed to
charge a fee which                                   TU Committee
would be part of the                       (six members representing MoF, MoE & NBM)
lending rate charged to a
PFI for subsidiary loans.
The NBM has agreed to                               Managing Director
cover in full the start-up                         (locS staff from NBM)
costs and the expected
initial operating cash
deficits of the TU. The          Banks Manager      Operations Manager  I Legal Counsel
appointment of the               (foreign expert)    (foreign expert)    (^ocal expert)
Managing Director of
the TU by the President
of the NBM was a
condition of
negotiations.
4.11   Additional services provided by the NBM. The NBM's Operations Department would open
an account-the Project Account (PA)-on behalf of the Republic that would be maintained for the life
of the credit line. The PA would have the dual purpose of receiving deposits-originating in
withdrawals from the Bank loan and the servicing of subsidiary loans by PFIs-and making
disbursements that would go to the servicing of the Bank loan by the Republic, the granting of
subsidiary loans to PFIs, or covering the costs of operating the credit line. Besides being a depository
account for liquid balances, the PA would serve the purpose of keeping full and detailed accounting of
the transactions being financed out of the proceeds of the credit line.
4.12   Access to Credit Line Resources by a PFI. To access these financial resources, a PFI that
has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be able to request from the TU a commitment of
credit line funds for a specified period of time, up to 4 years, which could be extended by the TU once
34



the PFI has demonstrated a capacity to engage in successful term lending. In general, such
commitments would be contingent on the PFIs ability to remain eligible for credit line use throughout
the commitment period. Initial commitmnents would be for a lump-sum of US$1 million equivalent per
PFI, with future increments of up to US$3 million. However, a PFI would be able to secure additional
commitments only after it has itself committed no less than US$500,000 in eligible subloans (properly
documented according to the CLRM). has completed an agreed trial period and is in full compliance
with the performance criteria agreed upon with the TU in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Prior to
committing additional funds from the credit line to a PFI, the TU would have to seek the consent of the
Bank.
4.13   The TU would stand ready to authorize subsidiary loans financed with the Bank loan in US
dollars or deutsche mark for onlending in the same currency to eligible subborrowers. The TU would
also be able to offer financing in Moldovan lei from the co-financing facility to be made available
through Governmental budgetary appropriations. The US dollar and deutsche mark subloans would
have to go to subborrowers that have revenues in the same currencies or have other ways of hedging
the foreign exchange exposure associated with a liability denominated in hard currency. Debt servicing
by PFIs and subborrowers would always be in the same currency in which the loan was originally
denominated.
4.14   Each subloan would be documented by a Subloan Agreement to be entered into between a PFI
and its subborrower. This agreement would include a tentative disbursement schedule for the subloan
and the conditions agreed for disbursement. The minimum requirements to be included in every
Subloan Agreement would be listed in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the
TU and each PFI.
4.15   The Credit Authorization Process. The credit risk associated with a specific subloan would
rest entirely with the PFI granting such credit. Thus, neither the Bank nor the TU are expected to
duplicate the credit or project analysis done by the PFI. Rather, the role of the TU would be to
concentrate on performing ex-post quality control reviews to determine whether credit regulations have
been met by the PFI granting the subloan. This notwithstanding, the TU would hlave the flexibility to
conduct ex-ante reviews of subloan documentation in those cases when a specific PFI establishes a
record of non-compliance with credit regulations. Also, there would be an ex-ante review of subloan
documentation when a given subloan is above a specified free-limit level and for the first two subloans
granted by a PFI just starting to operate with the credit line.
4.16   Eligibility of Subborrowers and Subprojects. The proposed credit line is geared to offer
medium-term financing (one- to five-year maturities for capital investments and up to 18 months for
working capital) for a wide range of private investment activities in Moldova. A corporate borrower is
private if more than 50 % of its ownership is in private hands. Newly privatized and other emerging
private sector enterprises would be able to obtain subloans from PFIs to finance their fixed capital
needs and working capital requirements. Since the credit line would be non-sector specific, subproject
eligibility would be based entirely on its technical, financial, economic and enviromnental soundness.
Minimum eligibility requirements for subloans, based on subproject and subborrower eligibility, would
be defined in the CLRM. PFIs would be required to appraise project risks, including an evaluation that
the currency of onlending is appropriate for the subborrower. This last evaluation criterion is likely to
make the credit line better suited and particularly relevant for the financing of export-oriented projects.
Since the credit risk associated with a subloan is taken by the PFI granting the credit, the final decision
35



on the credit risks to be assumed, and the subloans to be granted, would be made entirely by the PFIs,
following its own credit screening criteria. The minimum subloan size would be the equivalent of
US$30,000 for investment projects and US$10,000 for working capital lending. The aggregate
maximum subloans outstanding to any individual subborrower would be the equivalent of US$2.5
million-whether they are granted by one or more PFIs.
4.17   The SME window. At least two of the PFIs are expected to apply and participate in the
intermediation of credit line resources through the so-called SME window. Lending to these
subborrowers would follow the guidelines contained in the CLRM, with no differential treatment for
this sub-set, save for the fact that the maximum amount of subloans per subborrower would be
US$100,000, with no minimum subloan size. In order to secure adequate credit practices on the part
of PFIs engaged in SME lending, the Project contemplates a special program of technical assistance
geared to providing in-house western banking expertise to two of the PFIs involved with SME
lending-to be financed by foreign grants to be provided directly to the selected banks. Other PFIs
wishing to access the window would have to provide strong evidence to the TU-satisfactory to the
Bank-that they have the outside support or in-house knowledge required to implement a facility able to
provide small scale loans customized to SMEs. Furthernore, the TU would make separate credit line
commitments, in tranches of US$500,000, to those PFIs eligible for this kind of lending. These
commitments would be in addition to any others that the TU would normally grant to a PFI.
4.18   Eligible expenditures. In addition to financing investments in plant and equipment and
working capital, the PFI would be able to finance the cost of patents, licenses, and franchises needed
for the subproject's production process. Bank funds would not be used to refinance already existing
subborrowers' liabilities.
4.19   Interest rates on subsidiary loans. At present there is an absence of medium-term funding for
banks in the Moldovan market, given that deposits are scarce and practically all short-term. Thus,
there are no useful market indicators that could be used for guidance when trying to determine a market
rate at which Bank funding could be onlent to PFIs. Short-term interest rates are volatile, so they also
are of little help when trying to determine an appropriate level for a sustainable medium-term rate for
investment project financing. Faced with this dilemrna, the Government would like to avoid setting
credit line interest rates to PFIs in an arbitrary fashion, which could result in a misallocation of
resources or subsidies on the rate. As a second best option, they would be willing to charge PFIs a rate
that captures the cost of funds for the Government. In the case of Bank provided resources, it has been
agreed that the cost of funds would include the following components in addition to the IBRD lending
rate: (i) the cost of supervising the credit line subcomponent by the MOF; (ii) the cost of setting up and
operating the TU and the cost of other services to be provided by the NBM; and (iii) the cost of
establishing a credit risk fund to insure the Republic against potential losses that could result from poor
servicing of the credit line by some PFIs. These three costs would be incorporated in a spread over the
Bank rate which would be fixed once a subsidiary loan is granted. However, in order to reflect
changes in the relevant Bank lending rate, the interest rates charged on future subsidiary loans would
be reviewed semi-annually. Changes in the value of any of the components of the spread would
require the consent of the Bank. The detailed formula to determine the interest rate to be charged on
subsidiary loans would be included in the CLRM. As the number of PFIs increases, consideration will
be given to establishing a bidding mechanism for pricing subsidiary loans and allocating credit line
resources among competing PFIs. The interest rate to be charged to PFIs on the counterpart funds in
local currency to be made available by the Government through the TU will never be lower than that
36



charged on US dollar funding originating from the Bank loan. Actual Leu rates will be set from time
to time by the TU based on an assessment of the cost to the Government of funds raised in the local
market. Prior to their implementation, all interest rates to be charged by the TU will be reviewed by
the Bank.
4.20   Interest Rates on Subloans. The interest rate on subloans would be negotiated freely between
each PFI and its client, taking into account market conditions and the risks involved. Every effort
would be made by the TU to create transparency in the rate setting process. The formula used to
calculate the rate would be incorporated into each Subloan Agreement and it would includc a
mechanism to adjust it semi-annually to reflect changes in the PFI's subsidiary loan rate.
4.21   Subloan Maturities. Depending on subproject requirements, the maturity for subioans granted
to finance capital formation, such as investment in plant and equipment, would vary from 1 to 5 years.
Working capital subloans would vary from 9 months to 18 months.
4.22   Environmental Requirements. A manual on environmental review procedures for individual
subprojects will be prepared by the Government and reviewed by the Bank. It will become an annex
of the CLRM. The manual will provide the guidelines to classify, from an environmental point of view,
each sub-project to be financed by the credit line, allowing the development of a process under which
local environmental laws and regulations will be applied by appropriate institutions i.e., environmental
authorities and loan beneficiaries. Such a process will reduce the Bank's direct involvement in the
implementation of a particular sub-project while still allowing it to carry out its supervisory function
efficiently. The manual will be reviewed with the borrower prior to effectiveniess and it vill be
approved as part of the CLRM.
4.23   Technical Assistance for Financial Intermediaries and Support for TU. Support to
financial intermediaries would be critical for the success of the credit line and for the implementation of
badly needed restructuring and overhauling of the banking system. Technical assistance requirements
under the financial sector strengthening component would comprise the following subcomponents: (a)
staffing of the TU with two experts in western-style banking for a period of two years each and start-up
and incremental recurring costs required for the operation of the TU (US$1.6 million); (b) consulting
services to implement a two-year technical assistance program to support the credit line-related lending
activities of PFI and the development of western banking practices in the banking industry in general
(US$0.4 million); (c) two years of consulting services by western experts who would do in-house work
on developing SMEs' lending skills in selected PFIs participating in the SME window of the credit line
(US$1 million); and (d) technical assistance to be provided by foreign consultants plus start-up and
operational costs for the establishment of the BRU at the NBM (US$1 million). Efforts were made to
finance as much as possible of the US$4 million estimated to be required for this subcomponent with
foreign grant funding. During project preparation US$3.1 million was mobilized from the donors, the
NBU agreed to support the incremental operating costs of the TU with US$0.5 million, while US$0.4
million is budgeted as a part of the loan to the Republic. Grants and Bank resources would be
channeled through the PIU to the TU, BSD and BRU at the NBM. The costs associated with this
subcomponent would be assumed entirely by the Republic. The NBM would manage this technical
assistance program and act as fiscal agent of the Government.
4.24   Strengthening of NBM and Payments, Clearing and Settlement System. Under this
component US$2.23 million would be used to cover expenditures associated with the purchasing of
37



computer equipment, its installation (hardware and software), associated start-up costs and training of
local staff. The executing agency for this subcomponent will be the NBM, which will use US$2.23
million in the implementation of its own information system (US$1.55 million) and the upgrading of the
banks' Payments, Clearing and Settlement System (US$0.68 million), which operates under the
umbrella of the NBM. Funds from the Bank loan would be deployed and the funding would be
channeled through the PIU to the NBM. The NBM would receive Bank funds as onlending from the
Republic under the same terms and conditions as those in the Bank Loan Agreement, except for a small
annual administration fee to be charged by the MOF. The onlending would be formalized under an
NBM Sub-Loan Agreement to be entered into by the MOF, on behalf of the Republic, and the NBM. It
was agreed that a satisfactory NBM Sub-Loan Agreement will be entered into prior to disbursement
from this subcomponent of the Bank loan. Also, it was agreed with the authorities that pior to
disbursement from the Bank loan under this subcomponent the NBM will present for the Bank 's review
fully costed plans for its automation and that of the clearing center. The implementation plans for the
two subcomponents of this component are described in Annexes C and D.
D.    Procurement
4.25   Procurement will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for Procurement dated
January, 1995. In the procurement of goods through ICB, domestic manufactured goods may be
awarded preference in accordance with Articles 2.54 and 2.55 of the World Bank Guidelines for
Procurement. In anticipation of a formal Country Procurement Assessment Report scheduled for
FY96, an extensive survey of 30 private enterprises regarding their current procurement practices was
conducted.
4.26   Procurement of Goods. Under both the NBM's and the STA's institution building
subcomponents most of the Bank financing (US$4.15 million) would be used to buy computer software
and hardware. Three different contracts are anticipated: the automation of the Tax Administration in
the MOF (Annex E); the development of the Payments, Clearing and Settlement System (see Annex
D); and the automation of the NBM (see Annex C). These contracts will all be procured by ICB.
4.27   Procurement in Loans to Financial Intermediaries. For subprojects financed under the
credit line (US$27.45 million equivalent in total, with a maximum subloan size of US$2.5 million
equivalent) and executed by subborrowers, procurement would take place in accordance with World
Bank guidelines according to the following thresholds: (i) contracts valued up to US$1 million
equivalent in the case of goods would be procured using local commercial practice in combination with
multiple quotes from multiple countries; and (ii) all contracts above US$1 million equivalent would be
procured by ICB. For ICB contracts, the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods (January
1995) would be used. The US$1 million threshold for ICB was determined on the basis of the results
of an extensive survey conducted in May 1995 (Moldovan companies operating with the credit line
would procure goods and equipment on the basis of multiple bids from a range of countries). In some
special cases, Direct Contracting might be used, but only if it meets standards and procedures
acceptable to the Bank, following the directives contained in paragraph 3.7 of the Procurement
Guidelines (January 1995). For easy reference the Procurement and Consultant Guidelines and
relevant provisions in the Loan Agreement, concerning procurement, consultant selection and
contracts, will be annexed to the CLRM. The CLRM will be subject to prior review and clearance by
the Bank. Technical assistance will be given to PFIs to strengthen their capabilities in procurement.
38



4.28   Procurement of Technical Assistance. Under both the Enterprise Assistance Program
(US$3.0 million) and the Technical Assistance (US$0.4 million) for the FSSC the Bank will finance
short-term consulting services for the credit line and TU. Technical assistance is expected to require
several different contracts, a number of them for small amounts. The Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants (August 1981) will be applied. It is expected that some of the Bank financing would be
used to procure large consulting contracts. Contracts for consulting services of more than US$50,000
in the case of individuals and more than US$100,000 in the case of companies will be subject to prior
review by the Bank. Review by the Bank of the terns of reference would be carried out for all
procurement of consultant services. It is expected that almost all the technical assistance packages will
be procured on the basis of short-listing. In cases of small individual consultant short term assignments
contracts, these packages will be procured through individual contracts. A list of TA packages and the
procurement method for each package is described in Annex H.
4.29   Prior review by the World Bank of procurement documentation would be carried out for: (i)
all contracts procured through ICB; (ii) the first contract financed by each PFI; (iii) the first contract
under all other subcomponents of the Project and; (iv) all contracts procured through direct contracting.
Contracts for consulting services of more than US$50,000 in the case of individuals and more than
US$100,000 in the case of companies will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Procurement
procedures and documents for other contracts would be subject to random review by the Bank during
project supervision.
4.30   All subloan applications would include a discussion of procurement procedures used and
criteria for selection of suppliers of goods, and ensure that these conform with the Bank's Guidelines.
PFIs and sub-borrowers are expected to keep records on quotations requested. Evidence of those
quotations will be required for ex-post review during project supervision. The TU (in the case of the
credit line subcomponent) and the PIU will monitor adherence to the Procurement Guidelines and
furnish quarterly progress reports on procurement activities to the Bank.
39



Table 4. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$49 million equivalent)'
Not Bank          Total
Loan Subcomponent                  ICB      LCB        Other          Financed          Costs
Computers                     4.15                                0.95            5.10
(4.15)                                              (4.15)
Credit line                   2.50                24.952          5.00            32.45
(2.50)              (24.95)                        (27.45)
Technical Assistance                               3.403          8.05            11.45
(3.40)                         (3.40)
TOTALS                        6.65    0.00        28.35          14.00            49.00
1       (0.00)
I   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
2   Local Commercial Practice is expected to be used as procurement method for subloans under US$I million equivalent.
3   For technical assistance, services will be procured according to the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants (1981).
E. Disbursements
4.31   To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish two Special Accounts (one
in dollars, another one in DEM) in one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to cover the Bank's share of expenditures. The Authorized Allocation to a
Dollar Special Account would be US$1,000,000 representing about four months of average
expenditures made through the Dollar Special Account. The Authorized Allocation to a DEM Special
Account would be DEM 600,000 representing about four months of average expenditures made
through the DEM Special Account. During the early stage of the Project, the initial allocation to the
Dollar Special Account would be limited to US$500,000, and the initial allocation to the DEM Special
Account would be limited to DEM 400,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the
Dollar Tranche of the Loan have reached the level of US$4,000,000 and the aggregate disbursements
under the DEM Tranche of the Loan have reached the level of DEM 2,000,000, the initial allocation
may be increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US$1,000,000 and DEM 600,000 respectively by
submitting the relevant Application for withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the Special
Accounts would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever
occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the standard Bank
procedure as described in Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the Special
Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests.
The minimum size of application for the payment directly from the Loan accounts would amount to
20% of the amount of authorized allocation to the Special Accounts for each Tranche of the Loan.
40



4.32   Under the credit line, the Bank would finance up to 100% of foreign expenditures (C.I.F.),
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 80% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally. All expenditures under the credit line will be for financing of goods. Bank reimbursements
would be related to eligible expenditures made not more than 120 days prior to submission of the
application by the PFI to the TU. Expenditures for individual contracts valued at under US$1 million
equivalent financed by subloans would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
certified by the TU. The TU would ensure that all supporting documentation is adequately maintained
and is available for review at the Bank's request. Disbursements for all contracts valued at or above
US$1 million would be made against fully documented withdrawal applications. These disbursement
arrangements would be incorporated in the CLRM.
4.33   Disbursements in connection with the subcomponents that provide technical assistance for PFIs
and the EAA including consulting services required directly for the TU and the EAA would be
disbursed against Statements of Expenditures for contracts below US$100,000 for consultant firms and
bellow US$50,000 for individual consultants. All disbursements above a threshold of US$100,000 for
firms and above US$50,000 for individual consultants would be made against fully documented
withdrawal applications. Statement ox Expenditure Procedure cannot be used for purchase of
equipment for automation of the NBM, payment system and Tax Administration.
4.34   Retroactive financing will be possible for an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
US$3.4 million for the following expenditures: purchase of computer equipment for the NBM, the
payments, clearance and settlement system and the Tax Administration. Strategies for institutional
strengthening in these key areas have already been agreed with the Bank and implementation is about to
begin. Retroactive Financing is needed if the momentum behind reform in these areas is not to be
slowed. ICB will be used for procurement and retroactive financing will apply to eligible expenditures
after September 1, 1995.
4.35   The project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2000. The proposed closing date is
July 31, 2000.
F. Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, Auditing and Supervision
4.36   Accounting. The Borrower will have responsibiZity for the appropriate accounting for the
funds provided by the Bank under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring
that audits of the financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. The PIU, on behalf of the
Borrower, will establish an appropriate accounting system to provide information on the proper receipt
and use of funds in accordance with the Loan Agreement. The system should ensure timely and
accurate accounting of all transactions under the Loan and clear presentation of the financial
information.
4.37   Financial Reporting. Financial reporting for the different Project components would be
carried out by the PIU, TU and EAA for their respective components, and it would closely reflect the
specific requirements of the Loan. It would comprise a statement of receipts and payments for the
reporting period since the beginning of the Project. The reporting would be in accordance with the
disbursements classified and reported by the expenditure categories agreed with the Borrower and
spelled out in the legal documents. Bi-annual progress reports would be submitted by the PIU, which
would act as coordinator for all financial reporting. The PIU's quarterly reporting would include a
41



separate report with respect to the Special Account. A Implementation Completion Report will be
submitted to the Bank by the PIU promptly after the completion of the program, not later than six
months after the loan closing date.
4.38   Auditing. Financial statements and reports on the Loan (including the Special Account) would
be audited by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of the fiscal year. Selected auditors must be: (i) impartial and independent
from the entity to be audited; (ii) well-established and reputable; (iii) experienced in the type of
assignment to be undertaken; and (iv) able to fulfill the terms of reference required within the specific
timetable.
4.39   Project Supervision. The proposed project is complex in nature given that it straddles two
sectors (the enterprise and financial sectors). Furthermore with limited human resources in the public
sector in Moldova there would need to be a strong emphasis on supervision. Program supervision
input by Bank staff is therefore expected to be above average, particularly at the early stage of project
implementation. The establishment of a PIU will help facilitate smooth project implementation and
supervision.
42



V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Project Benefits
5.1    Anticipated benefits of the proposed Project are:
(i)    strengthening the supply response to the Government's reform program through the
introduction of a comprehensive program for supporting the development of SMEs and
an isolation program for restructuring troubled enterprises to create a pipeline of
bankable projects;
(ii)   strengthening of the financial infrastructure by upgrading the payments, clearing and
settlement system, automation of the State Tax Administration and the NBM;
(iii)  improvement in the quality of bank intermediation by strengthening the regulatory and
supervisory environment in which banks operate;
(iv)   enabling privatized and new private enterprises to obtain financing at competitive rates
for export-oriented investments; and
B.    Project Risks
5.2    The project also faces a number of risks:
(i)    increasing pressuire on the Government to reverse the reform measures if the lack of
supply response continues-this risk is addressed by the positive demonstration effect of
successful enterprise turnaround and export perfornr.ance;
(ii)   possible backsliding by the Government that will lead to (a) the SCC not sending
enterprises into bankruptcy that cannot be restructured successfully under the EAA, and
(b) future budgetary contributions being made to enterprises under EAA's care;
(iii)  institutional weakness of the NBM and PFIs which would lead to a slow disbursement
of the credit component-technical assistance has been incorporated into the project
design specifically to address this risk;
(iv)   a further deterioration of the econonmy could lead to a significant build-up of non-
performing loans which will have a weakening effect on the already feeble financial
sector; and
(v)    slow disbursement of the credit line due to possible competition from directed
subsidized credits that might be reintroduced for political reasons. The risk is reduced
through an agreement with the Government that a significant part of funds from the
budget-earmarked for the enterprises-be channeled at market determined rates
through the project-supported TU.
43



VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements
6.1 During negotiations, agreements were reached on all Loan documentation including the
provision of: (i) a regulatory framework enabling implementation of the EAP and establishment of
the EAA. (para. 3.5) [Loan Agreement (LA) Section 1.02 (f) and Schedule 5 (5)]; (ii) adoption of an
Institutional Development and Action Plan of the Banking Supervisory Department of the NBM
(para. 3.23); (iii) establishment and appropriate staffing of the BRU within the NBM. (para. 3.24);
(iv) final agreement on the balance between loan and grant financing for the TA, taking into account
the availability of grants from donors (paras. 3.26 and 3.51); (v) confirmation of specific set of
eligibility criteria for private commercial banks (para. 3.19); (vi) confirmation of additional eligibility
criteria for commercial banks to participate in SME window program (para. 4.17); and (vii)
confirmation of sources for the credit line: (a) US$27.45 million equivalent from the 20-year
maturity Bank loan and (b) US$5 million equivalent to be funded by allotments in the National
Budget over a three-year period. [LA Schedule 5(2) (g)]
6.2  Prior to the Board the following actions were taken by the Borrower:
PIU Director has been appointed. (para. 4.1)
Banking regulations satisfactory to the Bank have been stubmitted and satisfactory progress has
been made with the implementation of an Institutional Development and Action Plan for the
Banking Supervision Department of the NBM. (para. 3.23)
Substantial progress has been made with the pilot program, inc:uding appropriate regulatory
changes and progress satisfactory to the Bank with the restructuring of 3-5 pilot enterprises.
(para. 4.6)
Two banks, acceptable to the Bank, have expressed their willingness to participate, and have
demonstrated their capacity to qualify as participating financial institutions. (para. 3.19)
6.3  As effectiveness conditions:
The new Financial Institutions Law has come into force. (para. 3.23) [LA Section 6.01 (f)]
Conclusion of a Grant Agreement satisfactory to the Bank for the establishment and staffing of
the TU. (para. 4.10) [LA Section 6.01 (d)]
At least two Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to the Bank will be signed. (para. 3.19)
[LA Section 6.01 (b)]
A Funds Transfer Agreement satisfactory to the Bank to be signed between the Ministry of
Finance and the EAA. (para. 4.2) [LA Section 6.01 (c)]
44



Conclusion of a Fiscal Agency agreement satisfactory for the Bank between the MOF and the
NBM. (para. 4.8) [LA Section 6.01 (a)]
Finalization and adoption of a Credit Line Regulation Manual (CLRM) with an Annex of
environmental review procedures for individual sub-projects (para. 4.22) [LA Annex to
Schedule 5, Section I(B)(2)(e) and LA Section 6.01 (e)]
6.4  Conditions under specific disbursement categories:
NBM to present to the Bank a fully costed plan for the automation of the payments and clearing
center. (para. 3.27) [LA Schedule 1 (3)(c)]
NBM to present to the Bank a fully costed plan for its automation. (para. 3.28) [LA Schedule 1
(3)(b)]
MOF to present to the Bank a fully costed phased implementation plan for the automation of
the State Tax Administration. (para. 4.7) [LA Schedule 1 (3)(d)]
A NBM Sub Loan Agreement to be signed between the Ministry of Finance and the NBM.
(para. 4.24) [LA Schedule 5 (3)(a)]
B.    Recommendations
6.5 The proposed Project provides a suitable basis for a Bank Loan to the Republic of Moldova.
The loan will be a two tranche, US$25 million and DEM14 million (equivalent of US$10 million),
LIBOR-based single currency loan with floating interest rates, for a period of 20 years, including a
grace period of 5 years.
45






ANNEX A
Page 1 of 3
SAMPLE MEMORANDUM TO BE SENT BY THE SCC TO THE ENTERPRISES
To:    Chairman of the Enterprise Board/Enterprise Director
Enterprise Name & Address
RE: Memorandum concerning measures to be taken in connection with debt due to the State in the amount of Lei_
Dear Sir/Madam:
Pursuant to Resolution No.    of the Council of Ministers, the undersigned State Creditor's Council (the SCC)
has been formed by the Government to represent the Government's interests as the creditor of the enterprises indebted to
the Government in the amount exceeding Lei   (the Debtor Enterprise). The said Resolution empowered the SCC,
inter alia, to take measures aimed at reversing the mounting financial problems of the enterprise sector by actively
encouraging the Debtor Enterprises to undergo a meaningful rehabilitation, which shall include restructuring of the
enterprise's existing debt to the Government and private creditors (the Restructuring).
In accordance with the said Resolution, the SCC has determined that the total amount of present indebtedness of
Enterprise     to the Government is Lei     , which includes Lei  _  in tax arrears, Lei    in wages
arrears, Lei      in arrears to the Social Fund and Lei   in energy arrears (each of the amounts includes
principal, interest, penalties and other applicable charges). In order to deal with this debt in a productive manner, the SCC
hereby requests the Enterprise to seek a voluntary rehabilitation through isolation. Specifically, the SCC requests that
Enterprise     (i) hold a general meeting of its shareholders in which the management shall ask the shareholders to
empower the Board of Directors to prepare and implement the Restructuring Plan, (ii) notify all its creditors of the First
Creditors' Meeting to be held by the Enterprise    , in which it will seek their approval for the preparation of the
Restructuring Plan acceptable to creditors; (iii) prepare such Restructuring Plan within 6 weeks from the date of the First
Creditors' Meeting; (iv) hold the Second Creditors' Meeting in which it will seek the creditors' approval for the
Restructuring Plan and the conclusion of a Debt Restructuring Agreement regarding the rpstructuring of the enterprise's
existing debt as proposed in the Restructuring Plan; (v) implement the Restructuring Plan while in isolation; and (vi)
resume the payment of its debts in accordance with the terms of the Debt Restructuring Agreement upon successful
completion of the Restructuring Plan and emergence from the isolation program.
Please note that you may incorpora&e into the Restructuring Plan the appropriate incentives made available by the
Government under Resolution No.    . Please also note that in preparing and implementing the Restructuring Plan,
assistance may be sought from the Post-privatization Agency, a non-profit organization established and operating pursuant
to Resolution No.
If you agree to seek restructuring through implementation of measures listed above, please countersign this
memorandum-agreement with the SCC by signing two copies of the attached "Plan of Action" Form and return one signed
copy to the SCC by _ _ _
Please take notice that if the SCC does not receive the countersigned memorandum agreement by the date
specified, the SCC will initiate bankruptcy proceedings against Enterprise  in a court of proper jurisdiction in
accordance with the Bankruptcy Law of the Republic of Moldova.
State Creditors' Council
by Chairman



ANNEX A
Page 2 of 3
PLAN OF ACTION
Enterprise _, hereby agrees to seek the Restructuring in accordance with the principles set out in the Resolution
No. _     . For this purpose, Enterprise  _ hereby agrees to enter into this Memorandum Agreement with the State
Creditors' Committee (the SCC) pursuant to which it shall seek a meaningful rehabilitation, including the restructuring of
its debts with its creditors (public and private) (the Restructuring). In order to achieve such restructuring, Enterprise
shall:
1. By _    _     [insert date not later than 30 days from the date of this memorandum] have its management
hold a general shareholders' meeting, at which the management shall request the shareholders to empower the Board of
Directors to prepare and implement the Restructuring Plan;
2. If the shareholders' meeting so empowers the Board, draw a list of creditors of Enterprise _  and by
[insert date not later than 30 days from the date of the general meeting of shareholders referred to in I above] send by
registered mail invitation letters to each of the creditors on the list at their last known address and publish a notice in at
least two newspapers of wide circulation concerning the holding of the First Creditors' Meeting. Such invitation letters
will be prepared in accordance with the model form attached thereto and shall inform the creditors that the First Creditors
Meeting will be called in order to get the creditors' approval for preparation of the Restructuring Plan acceptable to the
creditors.
3. If the First Shareholders' Meeting agrees through a double majority (i.e., the majority of total claims among
the creditors appearing at the First Creditors' Meeting and the number majority of creditors so present) to allow Enterprise
- to prepare the Restructuring Plan, prepare the Restructuring Plan within a period not exceeding six weeks and
immediately deliver the said Plan to each creditor for review by speediest means available, together with a notice of the
Second Shareholders' Meeting, to be held within two
weeks of the date of such notice.
4. Hold the Second Shareholders' Meeting at which the Restructuring Plan will be explained and discussed and a
vote of creditors held on whether to support the adoption of the said Plan. If the Restruzturing Plan is adopted by creditors
through a double majority vote, sign a debt restructuring agreement with each creditor present which will govern the debt
payment obligation of the enterprise to each of the creditors once it emerges from the restructuring.
5. Implement the restructuring plan through isolation with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with
appropriate business, financial, accounting and managerial practices in accordance with the provisions of the said Plan so
as to achieve its objectives in full.
6. Upon successful implementation of the restructuring plan and emergence from isolation, commence and
continue payment of its debt obligations to each creditor in accordance with the provisions of the debt restructuring
agreement.
Enterprise _       hereby acknowledges its understanding that should it fail to secure the necessary consents or
approvals at any of the steps 1-4 above or should it fail to comply with any one of its obligations in accordance with steps
1-5 above, the SCC, as the representative of the Public Creditor will commence bankruptcy proceedings against the
Enterprise in a court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with the bankruptcy law of Moldova.
Enterprise through its authorized representative
(Director or Chairman of the Board)



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 3
SAMPLE LETTER OF INVITATION TO CREDITORS TO ATTEND THE FIRST CREDITORS' MEETING
Dear Creditor:
On        [insert date] Enterprise  _  signed a memorandum agreement with the State Creditor's Committee
(the SCC), established pursuant to Resolution No. _  of the Council of Ministers to represent the Govermnent in its
capacity as the Public Creditor of Moldovan enterprises. Pursuant to the said memorandum agreement (a copy of which is
attached hereto), Enterprise  undertook to seek a meaningful restructuring acceptable to and supported by its
creditors, which shall include restructuring of its debt obligations. On  [insert datel, pursuant to paragraph I of the
said memorandum agreement, the general shareholders' meeting empowered the Board of Enterprise  to seek such
restructuring.
In order to proceed with the preparation of the said restructuring plan, on _    [insert date] Enterprise _  will be
holding the First Creditors' Meeting at _ [insert address] in order to seek the consent of its creditors to prepare the
restructuring plan acceptable to creditors within six weeks of the date of such meeting.
We strongly encourage you to attend the First Creditors' Meeting through your authorized representative and are
hoping for your support in allowing Enterprise - to prepare a meaningful restructuring plan which will help it to
resolve its financial difficulties and resume its payment obligations to you in accordance with the debt restructuring
agreement to be agreed upon as part of the restructuring plan.
Sincerely,
Director or Chainnan of the Board of
Enterprise






ANNEX B
Page 1 of 3
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures to Select and Monitor Participating Financial Intermediaries
1.    In order to be a Participating Financial Intermediary (PFI), commercial banks have to meet at
all time a set of stringent financial and management criteria and have signed a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement (SLA) with the Technical Unit (TU) established at the National Bank of Moldova (NBM).
These SLA are negotiated separately by each PFI with the technical staff of the TU, which has to seek
the final approval of the TU's Committee prior to the signing of each Agreement by the Managing
Director. In the case of the first five (5) SLA, prior to their review by the Committee, the Managing
Director shall submit each SLA to a review by the World Bank (WB). All other SLA, after their
signing, shall be submitted to the WB for an ex-post review and their acceptance on a non-objection
basis.
2.    Potential PFIs must be individually appraised by the staff of the TU, with particular attention
given to their overall lending capabilities and financial and portfolio performance. The same standards
shall be used by the staff of the TU to constantly monitor the continued eligibility of currently operating
PF1. The staff of the TU shall base its recommendations for action in the case of each PFI on a
comprehensive assessment of its creditworthiness. That is, the PFI must have a satisfactory financial
and management structure, a satisfactory risk-based capital adequacy, an acceptable asset quality and
lending performance, a comfortable liquidity position, and the organization, management, technical
staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of its operations. The TU's assessment
reports must include an evaluation of all these areas, for which the TU shall define a set of eligibility
criteria or minimum standards, which shall include the following:
A.    General Standards:
i) The bank must undergo an in-depth annual audit that is conducted in accordance with
international accounting and auditing standards.
ti) The bank must be in compliance with all banking laws and regulations or, if not, the bank:
(a) shall have entered into a time bound agreement with the NBM to come into compliance; or
(b) shall be in the process of reaching such agreement to the satisfaction of the NBM.
iii) The bank shall be operating pursuant to regulatory and investment requirements and
procedures which the WB and the NBM have judged acceptable. Outstanding prudential
regulations issued by the NBM shall have to conform to international standards and be
satisfactory to the WB at all times during effectiveness of the WB Loan.
B.    Financial Standards:
iv) The bank's "net worth" must equal at least 8% of the bank's risk weighted assets and off-
balance sheet exposures (as defined by the NBM), or any higher percentage that the NBM may
specify in the future.



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 3
v) The bank must have a "net worth" of no less than 4 million lei, or any higher figure that the
NBM may specify in the future as the minimum "net worth" requirement for banks operating in
Moldova.
vi) The bank must maintain a level of loan less provisions at all times at least equal to the
minimum required according to the prudential regulations issued by the NBM under the new
Banking Institutions Law.
vii) The bank must have a positive "net income" for the most recent financial year, as reflected
in externally audited financial statements.
viii) The bank must be in compliance with the legal reserve requirements of the NBM.
ix) The bank must limit the funding it receives from the Government or the NBM to no more
than 25% of the bank's "total funding," which comprises deposits (including inter-bank
deposits), and funding from the Government or NBM. This percentage will be reviewed
anually and mutually agreed between the Bank and the NBM.
x) The bank must limit its exposure to a single borrower; "related" and "connected" parties (as
defined by the NBM) must be in compliance with the NBM's prudential regulations.
xi) The bank must have an open foreign exchange position (as defined by the prudential
regulations of the NBM) for each single foreign currency equivalent to less than 10% of the
bank's "net worth", and for the total open position for all foreign currencies equivalent to less
than 25% of the bank's "net worth"; or any lower percentages that the NBM's prudential
regulations permit banks in the future.
C.    Managerial Standards:
1     The bank's Board of Directors sets overall bank policy and performs appropriate
oversight of the bank's operations.
2     The bank has a sound business plan and has appropriate budgeting procedures.
3     The bank has sound lending policies and procedures.
4     The bank has satisfactory internal controls and audit procedures.
5     The bank is not exposed to undue interest rate risk.
6     The bank's management information system provides sufficient information to the staff
responsible for managing the bank's risks and financial performance.



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 3
D.    Other Standards:
The bank has established a unit for term-lending and has designated a capable professional,
trained in project financing, to act as the counterpart to the TU.
E.    Additional Standards for PFI in the SME Window:
In order to qualify for intensive technical assistance to develop a sustainable and profitable
small business lending program, each PFI will have to meet an additional set of criteria to be agreed
upon in individual SLAs:
i) Clear commitment from tOD management to successful SME lending.
ii) Establishment of a special unit for small business lending.
iii) Allocation of dedicated staff to this unit and payment of staff based on performance
measured as a combination of loans disbursed and repayments obtained.
iv) Implementation of small business lending technology consisting of (cash flow based) loan
screening and monitoring systems as well as client tracking systems.
v) Willingness to accept (over time) more flexible collateral such as inventories and
receivables.
3.     Side Agreements: The banking sector of Moldova is in need of serious restructuring, so few
commercial banks, if any, are expected immediately to meet the eligibility criteria established in
paragraph 2. Thus, some adjustment of the eligibility criteria could be allowed temporarily by the TU
provided that the SLA of the relevant bank includes provisions whereby the PFI agrees to implement a
customized program of capitalization, risk reduction and/or institutional development, as the case might
be. The agreed program, to be formalized in a Side Agreement to the SLA, shall set specific targets to
be achieved over time, making the continued participation of the bank in the intermediation of the
Credit Line conditional on its timely compliance with the programmed improvements. Also, (as shall be
specified in the Side Agreement) during the transition period the access of a given bank to the Credit
Line might be restricted by the TU in any way it sees necessary to protect Credit Line resources from
excessive risks. In particular, the "free limit" ailowance for a bank with a current Side Agreement
cannot be more than half that allowed to banks complying fully with the eligibility criteria. At the end
of the transition period banks with a Side Agreement are also expected to comply fully with all the
eligibility criteria, so that the standard norms of the Credit Line Regulations Manuai will apply.






ANNEX C
Page 1 of 5
Automation of the National Bank of Moliova
1.    Background
The modernization program in progress at the National Bank of Moldova (NBM) has resulted
in the assumption of new functions and procedural changes in many of its activities. In order to
facilitate the smooth transition to these new functions NBM has chosen automation solutions for its
daily functions. Responding to these underlying requirements, the NBM developed automation
solutions for building systems that are both efficient and cost-effective, an environment for sharing
information, and telecommunications capabilities. The proposed automation strategy is based on
interconnected local area networks, which are, in turn, composed of multiple microcomputers. The
basic elements of the architecture are: (1) the network-transmission media for exchanging information;
(2) workstations-user's personal computer; (3) servers-devices for more powerful data processing that
support a network of workstations and other servers. Witliin this automation environment as many
automation needs as possible will be met with microcomputers, connecting them to networks and
adding to these networks, software, shared microcomputer-based data storage, printing, and specialized
processors. This technology environment will be cost-effective, modular, expandable, and easily
maintained. When implemented, this environment will offer the NBM an efficient and flexible
computing environment that can be easily expanded to accommodate the growing requirements.
2.    Project Description
Support for automation of NBM under the PSD loan is being provided in the context of a
broader project-comprising a number of subprojects-which the NBM is financing in part (in the order
of US$0.95 million).
a.    Prototype Local Area Network (LAN) Subproject-This project was set up by NBM to learn,
develop, and test standards for LAN, workstations, servers and applications before LAN can be
installed in the user departments. Specification of the user requirements which describes applications
that will run on the LAN was developed. This, in turn, was based on the specification and technical
platform that was developed with assistance from a local contractual firm. The network which is being
installed and implemented is 1OBaseT, in a star configuration, with each workstation or server directly
attached to its hub via twisted-pair wire. Several hubs may be configured in a line and interconnected
which provides an easy growth path for expansion. The prototype LAN is installed in the Computer
Technology Department. It has twenty four workstations, two 586 Pentium servers and one UNIX
database server. This project has been funded fully by the NBM and the project was installed during
the first week of May 1995.
b.    Local Area Network for NBM Subproject-This subproject will involve the installation and
implementation of a local area network for user departments. The first user department LAN will be
installed in four departments: the Banking Supervision department, the Economic Analysis and
Research department, the Foreign Operations department, and the Balance of Payments department to
support the central economic database for NBM. Data specification procedures have already begun and
actual development of the software system and the installation and inplementation of the LAN will start
during the fourth quarter of 1995. The next LAN installation is planned for the Credit Resource



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 5
department, Accounting department and Clearing and Settlement department. The Administration
department LAN will be introduced toward the end of 1996.
c.     Office Automation Subproject-With the implementation of the LAN project, an office
automation project was introduced. NBM evaluated the MicroSoft Office Software and the decision
was made to adapt MicroSoft Office as the standard office automation software for NBM and introduce
Access Software for the database development tool. INFORMIX has been selected for the new NBM-
wide database platform.
d.    Development of the new Accounting System-NBM is in the process of converting from the old
Gosbank accounting system to the new chart of accounts on July 1, 1995. A decision has been taken to
modify the existing FOXPRO computer programs to accept the new chart of accounts. The system
should be developed on the new database platform in the near future. It is planned that systems
development efforts should start in mid 1996 and have the system completed by the first quarter of
1997.
e.    The Book Entry System-The first Goveniment Securities auction has held in March 1995 and it
is decided that auction will take place every five (5) weeks. Initial programs were written in FOXPRO
and a more comprehensive system should be developed to repiace the current one. The new system
will be implemented during the fourth quarter of 1996.
f.     The Administrative Systems-NBM initially developed a payroll system on a stand alone PC
using FOXPRO. Now, however, a comprehensive Administrative System will be developed on the
new automation platform to address personnel, payroll, procurement requisitions, inventory and other
administrative functions.
3.    Hardware and Software Configurations
a.    Hardware Configuration
Database Server:                  Pentium - 90 Mhz Tower 64MB RAM
5GB Hard Drive
3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive
17" Monitor(1280 x 768 Color)
Ethernet Card
Network Card and Disk Controller
UPS 1250W American Power Smart 220V/50 cycle
Engli.sh/Russian keyboard and mouse



ANNEX C
Page 3 of 5
Conmuunications Server:           Pentium - 90MHz Tower 64MB RAM1GB Hard Drive
3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive
17" Monitor(1280 x 768 Color)
Ethernet Card
Network Card and Disk Controller
UPS 1250W American Power Smart 220V/50 cycle
English /Russian keyboard and mouse
Applications Server:              Pentium - 90MHz Tower 64MB RAM
IGB Hard Drive
3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive
17" Monitor(1280 x 768 Color)
Ethernet Card
PC/TCP/IP
English/Russian keyboard and mouse
Departmental Server:              Pentium - 90MHz Tower 16MB RAM
2GB Hard Drive
3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive
17" Monitor(1280 x 768 Color)
Ethernet Card
PC/TCP/IP
English/Russian keyboard and mouse
Workstations:                     486DX40 based PC 8MB RAM
240MB Hard Drive
3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive
14" Monitor (1280 x 768 Color)
Ethernet Card
English/Russian keyboard and mouse
Terminals:                        486DX40 based PC 4MB RAM
SVGA screen and video adapter
Ethernet Card
English/Russian keyboard and mouse
Laptop:                           Laptop 486DX 75MHz
240MB Hard Drive
9.5" Monitor
8MB RAM expandable to 16MB
VL Local-Bus Video
Expansion Bus for Smart Station
Modem



ANNEX C
Page 4 of 5
3.5" 1.44MB Disk Drive
Power Management System
b.    Software Requirements
Following software will be used as standard software syster.s:
o     -Network Operating Systems
-Novell Netware
-SCO UNIX
o     Widows Operating System
o     Microsoft Office which includes Word for document creation, Excel for spreadsheet
applications, Access for database and Power Point for the production of quality
publications.
o     MicroSoft Project for managing the development effort and monitoring the project
progress.
o     INFORMIX for database software.
4.    Hardware Requirements
Hardware             # of Units            Price/Unit            Total Cost
Power Server                            3               $20,000              $60,000
- communications
- processing
- database
Dept. Servers                          15               $14,000             $210,000
Workstations                          200                $3,000             $600,000
Terminals                             40                  $700               $28,000
Copying Machine                        15                 $900               $13,500
External Modem                         20                 $250                $5,000
Hubs-24 port                           20                $1,700              $34,000
Ethernet cards                        300                 $140               $42,000
U P S                _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _



ANNEX C
Page 5 of 5
Hardware             # of Units           Price,Unit            Total Cost
- 600VA                              200                 $250               $50,000
- 900VA                               22                 $300                $6,600
- 1250VA                               3                 $350                $1,050
Laptops                               10                $4,000              $40,000
Printer                               10                $2,000              $20,000
FAX machines                          12                 $300                $3,600
CD ROM                                30                 $400               $12,000
Scanners                              15                 $750               $11,250
Contingency                                                                  57,750
Total                     $1,250,000
5.    Funds Allocation and Requirement Schedule
The following table summarizes the plan for allocating and required schedule for the
disbursement of funds:
Hardware                               $1,250,000
Software                               $ 225,000
Training and Other                     $  75,000
Total                                  $1,550,000
January 1996                           $ 825,000
June 1996                              $ 725,000






ANNEX D
Page 1 of 1
Payments System Development: Technical Specifications
1.   Background
The project for supporting the development of the payments system in Moldova is aimed at
strengthening:
*     Intra-bank delivery of payment messages
*     Inter-bank delivery of payment messages (submissions)
*     Submission processing and settlement in the NBM1Settlement Confirmation.
2.    Project Description
Under this project there are two sub-projects:
a.   Implementation of an integrated, Automated Interbank Payments System (AIPS). This
will include 30 site EDS, NBM Submissions Processing and Settlement Applications, including
Nominal Ledger facilities as standard. The cost estimate is $500,000 including software and
customization. No hardware is included as it is likely that the applications will utilize either the
DEC/SWIFT platform, or the NBM Local Area Network, both of which are separately costed.
b.    Implementation of backup / disaster recovery site for NBM systems. Cost estimate
$150,000 including hardware and communication lines.
An integrated AIPS approach has been chosen for the following reasons:
*     sharing of computer platform capacity with the SWIFT implementation,
*     standardized built in operational procedures and record / file formats,
*     provides a nominal ledger soiution for the Accounts Department of the NBM,
*     has high standards of system and operational documentation,
*     adequate technical support / software maintenance.
Project Costs
Implementation of AIPS                                   $500,000
Implementation of backup disaster recovery site           $150,000
Contingency                                                $30,000
Total                                                     $680,000
Funds Requirement Schedule
January 1996                      $400,000
June 1996                         $280,000






ANNEX E
Page 1 of 11
Computerization Plan for the Moldovan Tax Inspectorate
Introduction
The business and economic environment in Moldova is going through a significant restructuring. A
modernized, well-functioning tax system is an essential element in achieving macroeconomic
stabilization, developing a clear set of the "rules of the game" needed for a market economy, and in
facilitating the business investment needed in Moldova.
The Government is committed to this process through a comprehensive review and reform of the tax
system. The result will be a system which is simpler to cope with, fairer and competitive with its trading
partners.
In response to advice and recommendations from the IMF and the World Bank, and with the assistance
of USAID-financed long-term resident technical advisers, the Ministry of Finance is undertaking three
major initiatives that will:
*  Reform the structure of the tax laws in Moldova,
e  Restructure the tax administration, and
*  Computerize many of the functions of the Tax Inspectorate.
Each of these elements of reform is dependent upon the others for the success of reform as a whole.
Reform of tax policy mechanisms will create a broadly-based tax structure with low rates, giving
investors a secure framework in which to work. Reform of the tax administration processes and
procedures will help in clarifying rights and obligations, and will enable business to comply more easily
and at lower administrative cost with the tax system. Finally, computerization of the Tax Inspectorate
will allow business to devote a smaller share of their time and expenses to the tax collection process and
for the Government to improve the efficiency of the administration. This Annex explains the inter-linked
reforms in tax policy, administration, and computerization and describes the four-phased implementation
program for which the PSD Loan would finance the hardware, software and related training, at an
estimated cost of $US 1.9 million.
The computerization plan is divided in 9 sections as follows:
1 . Overview of the current tax system
2. Tax policy objectives
3. Recent developments
4. Tax administration objectives
5. Computerization objectives
6. Organization of the Tax Inspectorate
7. Computerization of the Tax Inspectorate
8. Design and Implementation Schedule
9. Funds Allocation



ANNEX E
Page 2 of 11
1. Overview of the current tax system
To ensure financial stability for the government, the tax system in Moldova should raise the necessary
revenues to finance government programs and services and service public debt, while reducing its
reliance on credit. The system is far from meeting these objectives at present.
Currently the situation is as follows:
* Nominal GDP in Moldova was 7.8 bn lei in 1994, and is expected to increase to 8.65 bn lei (I 1 per
cent) in 1995.
* Government revenues were 1,317 m lei in 1994. Of this amount, 953 m lei (12.2% of GDP) was
from taxation. This compares to expenditures in the same year of 1,837 m lei.
* The largest source of tax revenue is the Corporate Profit Tax (35.3%), followed by the Value Added
Tax (29.0%), Excise Tax (15.1%) and Pcrsonal Income Tax (13.6%), most of it being collected
through withholding at source by employers. These taxes contributed a total of 93 percent of total
tax revenue for 1994.
2. Tax policy objectives
To meet the economic and financial needs of the country, the following objectives have been developed
and will guide the government in modernizing its tax system:
* The revenue level generated by the tax system should be roughly sufficient to finance the programs
and services of government, and to do so in a way that is reliable and predictable over time.
* The tax system should not limit the growth capacity of the economy. This is vital for domestic
producers operating in world markets and to attract foreign investment in Moldova. The tax burden
must be and remain competitive with its trading partners -- both in the former Soviet Union and in
other countries.
While every tax system must be competitive with its trading partners, there is an even stronger case for
small countries such as Moldova, which can significantly improve its economy by being competitive and
expanding its markets. As part of the tax reform exercise, the overall tax burden faced by enterprises is
being examined.
3. Recent developments
In this context, the Government has already taken a number of steps to improve the tax system and
improve the economic climate:
* Business income tax rates have been significantly reduced, from 50 per cent (70 per cent for certain
corporations) to 32 per cent;
* A new income tax law for banks has been prepared and has passed first reading in Parliament and is
expected to be enacted in a few weeks. This law will significantly improve the tax system for banks



ANNEX E
Page 3 of 11
by gradually reducing the tax rate from 40 per cent to 32 per cent and introducing a deductible
reserve provision for loan losses (in line with agreements under the Structural Adjustment Loan).
* New proposals are being developed to modernize the real estate tax law and the resource sector tax
laws.
*  A new consolidated tax code is in preparation which will combine the existing set of income tax laws
(currently over 15).
*  The system will be made simpler to cope with. For example, the current method for depreciation
calculation is being reviewed and simplified.
*  Rather than requiring a separate amortization schedule for each good, a declining balance method
with five categories of depreciation rate is being considered.
*  The method for determining allowable business expenses and the accounting method are also being
reviewed with the aim of harmonizing them with market economy norms.
* A discussion paper is in preparation that will explain the main objectives that the Government
intends to follow with tax reform, present the major issues that it is considering, and outline next
steps.
The Government has also begun taking steps to modernize the tax administration:
4. Tax Administration Objectives
Tax administration is currently very labor intensive and imposes substantial costs of compliance on
business. Therefore, a process has already begun to consolidate its structure, modernize its facilities and
computerize its facilities, improve the quality of the human resources working in the Tax Inspectorate,
and improve compliance and collection techniques.
*  Various provisions have been introduced to improve the effectiveness of the Tax Inspectorate;
*  A new Chief of the Tax Inspectorate has been appointed and three senior positions have been created
which will permit senior officials of the Tax Administration to plan and structure the new
administration.
Further steps are under way to improve tax administration:
*  The tax filing requirement is being reviewed in order to reduce and simplify the number of forms and
amount of data required.
*  The tax filer identification system is being updated to be consistent with computer processing
requirements.
* The auditing of returns is being specialized. Currently, auditors have no specialization. They must
deal with all types of tax and they are required to review each tax return every two years. In future,
audit criteria will be changed to target cases where there is a high probability of evasion or fraud.



ANNEX E
Page 4 of I1
The Tax Inspectorate is improving its communication capacities with the business community to discuss
and inform them of proposed changes and to better explain changes that have been adopted. (A
newsletter was recently issued).
5. Computerization Objectives
To ensure that the fiscal reform project is successful, modernization of the current computer hardware
and software is essential.
With the shift from a small number of taxpayers under central planning to a decentralized economy
covering a much large number of enterprises and individuals responsible for their own tax returns, the
quantity of transactions to be processed will soon become unmanageable through existing means.
Without the aid of a well designed and well integrated automated data processing system, the Tax
Inspectorate will not be able to fulfill its responsibilities effectively. This system will also serve to
lessen the administrative burden the business community faces when it deals with the tax system.
To develop and implement this plan, a software information engineering group that will concentrate their
efforts on designing and implementing systems that will change the current way of doing business. This
group will work closely with the advisors and key users to develop computer applications for the Tax
Inspectorate. The Tax Inspectorate has already begun identifying the personnel that will be part of this
group.
In designing and implementing a computerized tax system, a number of goals will be pursued:
I. Simplify data entry by using electronic information transfer as much as possible between
computers within the Tax Inspectorate and from other external sources (banks, Customs, etc.)
2. Generate benefits to the Tax Inspectorate quickly, even if many parts of the system remain to
be completed. Careful planning and phasing in of essential components at intervals throughout
the development process will allow parts of the system to be successfully implemented in
production prior to its completion.
3. Create a set of inter-networked, distributed computers, working in the framework of a
comprehensive systems design, that will continue to provide benefits as further expansion of the
system continues.
4. Provide taxpayer service on tax information.
5. Generate taxpayer identification numbers (TIN) for a broad base of taxpayers.
6. Centralize control of taxpayers for auditing and tax evasion purposes.
7. Maintain a central data base for taxpayers.
6. Organization of the Tax Inspectorate
There are presently 39 local Tax Inspectorate offices in Moldova. The capital, Chisanau, contains the
largest office as well as 5 district offices. The other local Tax Inspectorate offices are scattered
throughout the country. All heads of the local Tax Inspectorate office report directly to the Chief of the



ANNEX E
Page 5 of 11
Tax Inspectorate. The local offices employ 1800 tax inspectors, of whom a minimal number have
computer expertise.
Currently, each local office is responsible for administering every tax base in their district. This includes
processing, verification and collection of VAT, corporate income tax, personal income tax for self-
employed, withholding tax for employees and the real estate and land tax.
7. Computerization of the Tax Inspectorate
Volume of information processed
To assess the machinery required for computerization, it is necessary to calculate the volume of
information to be processed. The volume of data the Tax Inspectorate is currently processing is
estimated by multiplying the number of taxpayers by the number of blanks required to be completed on
each tax form. Adding up all the taxpayers for each different tax base gives a figure of 2 million tax
records in Moldova. The amount of information required from the taxpayers can be expressed as about
50 million fields, or 150 megabytes of information.
At present, the great majority of taxpayers are existing enterprises. With the introduction of a broad-
based income tax on employees, and the inclusion of new businesses in the tax net, the number of tax
records is expected to rise to 6 million by 1997. This and other changes will result in the volume of
fields processed by the Tax Inspectorate to increase by a factor of 10, to about 500 million fields.
Storage of this information will require about 1.5 gigabytes of computer space. The number of taxpayers
now and in 1997 along with the amount of space required to store the tax filer information is available in
Table 1.
The taxpayer number identification system will also generate a large volume of data to be processed and
stored. Currently there are 50,000 filers in the system, requiring 2 megabytes of storage space. This will
expand to 3 million filers in 1997, requiring 200 megabytes of storage space.
Current state of computerization
Computerization of the Tax Inspectorate is in its infancy. The bulk of the hardware is in the capital,
Chisinau, with the remainder scattered around the country. Each of the 39 local Tax Inspectorate offices
is currently equipped with at least one 486 chip desktop computer, in addition to an older 286 machine.
There are a total of 134 machines operating around the country. Of these, 47 are 486 machines, 24 are
386 machines and the remainder 286 machines or older. A detailed list of the computers currently
available to the Tax Inspectorate appears in Table 2.
The machines are not being used to their full capacity at the moment. Only the computers in the
Chisinau district (the main Chisinau site and 5 other offices in tota!) are linked in a network and transmit
information via modem. There are plans to create a network in other offices, but these have not been
implemented as of now. Also, many of the existing machines are obsolete. Given the need for
development of a standard software platform (Windows based), the existing 286 machines (and some
XT/8088s) will not be able to be used in the future as part of a large, integrated network. Furthermore,
the 386 machines will need to be upgraded to meet the minimum needs of the new system.



ANNEX E
Page 6 of 11
The functions these machines are providing is also linmited at the moment. The assignment of Taxpayer
Identification Numbers (TIN) is done by computer. However, because there are no communications
links between offices, this means that the TIN registration form is handed over to a local Tax
Inspectorate office, then delivered to the Computer Center at the Ministry of Finance for processing.
Then a certificate is returned back to the local office and the taxpayer.
The treasury function in the Tax Inspectorate is computerized to a limited extent. Taxpayers go to their
assigned bank and make a payment to a prespecified account set up by the Treasury specifically to
handle taxpayer payments. The bank sends a paper report to the Tax Inspectorate each month listing the
payments received. The Tax Inspectorate then uses this information to check that the amount that has
been paid is equal to the amount it has calculated as the liability. The only tax bases this process applies
to are the corporate income tax and the value added tax. There are no treasury functions computerized
for the employee withholding system, the self-employed income tax, or the land or real estate tax.
Presently, the only local Tax Inspectorate office with the ability to communicate electronically with the
central site is in Belti. Once again, this only applies to tax payment records, not processing or report
generating or other functions. No other electronic transfer of information is possible between offices
outside of the capital and the Computer Center or the Central Tax Inspectorate. All document tracking,
analysis and report generation is currently done by hand in the local offices and then sent to the Central
Tax Inspectorate as needed.
Tax processing for each tax is still done by hand in each Tax Inspectorate office. Corporate taxpayers
are required to submit a balance sheet and income statement along with their statement of tax liability.
The Tax Inspectorate checks the calculations by hand for each tax return and notifies the taxpayer in case
of a discrepancy. Tax processing by hand is also done for the other major taxes: personal income tax
(self-employed as well as employee withholding) or the land and property taxes.
In addition, property valuation for buildings is done manually by the Biurtau of Technical Inventory
(BTI). Valuation for land is done by the Ministry of Agriculture. Currently, thev are partly
computerized, having available only obsolete equipment. This is a serious impediment to maintaining
up-to-date, accurate values. The valuation process should be updated to utilize modern methods of
valuation, mass appraisal, spatial analysis, and increasingly, market information.
With the computerization of the Tax Inspectorate, Moldova will be modernizing its tax system. This will
mean that document tracking, processing, verification, collection, transfer of information are all done on
computer. Report generation and an on-line information system will allow the government to monitor its
finances and conduct tax policy with much greater efficiency than ever before.



ANNEX E
Page 7 of I 1
8. Design and Implementation Schedule
Four phases of implementation
The computerization program is divided into four phases.
Phase One, May 1995 to January 1996, is being devoted to the creating the underlying infrastructure of
the system and the development of prototypes. During this phase, the new, simplified forms and
procedures will be designed, and the systems development team will be writing the software to be used
for tax calculation, document tracking, record keeping, and report generation for each tax base. Using a
small sample of taxpayers, they will test this system, making changes if needed based on input received
from the users (the Tax Inspectorate), the tax advisers and the taxpayers.
Specialized software for property valuation will be installed. This will be done either at a central cite or
at multiple locations. This policy decision and administrative arrangement has not yet been made by the
government. This software will be used to collect, maintain and manage market data and conduct highly
technical research of the real estate and land tax bases. The data and research will enable a much more
accurate valuation of property. Use of valuation standards approximating market values will facilitate
collection of required taxes. Computerization of valuation will allow up-to-date, accurate property
values to be maintained in the system as the market economy continues to evolve. The resulting property
tax system will be much fairer and socially equitable than before, and will have the potential of
generating high levels of revenue.
The resident advisers are supplying the Tax Inspectorate with a Pentium style server computer to be used
as the hub of the systems design efforts. In addition, the Tax Inspectorate has seven 486 desktop
machines allocated to the systems design team.
Phase Two, from January through June 1996, is the beginning of the implementation of the system at the
central site in Chisinau. The prototypes will be expanded into a full scale system using real data. The
Value Added Tax will be the first tax base to be computerized. It is an ideal candidate since the VAT is
one of the largest tax bases, and will be the easiest to computerize. During this phase, real data will be
collected from VAT payments. The system will be used to calculate liabilities, monitor payments, and
general reports. The aim is to continue testing the system using real data for one tax, then spread the
system throughout Moldova by region and by tax base.
At this time, the centralized database, containing complete information on all taxpayers, will be created.
It will be maintained at the Computer Center in Chisinau. Communication links will be established with
each of the nine regional Tax Inspectorate offices. External sources (i.e. Treasury, National Bank,
commercial Banks, Customs, Financial Guard) will be able to send information to the Tax Inspectorate
electronically, greatly increasing compliance capabilities. The Central Tax Inspectorate computer
system will also be linked to this central system.
Phase Three will last from July 1996 through the erd of the year. The new system design will be
installed in a small number of satellite regions. Each of these will be linked electronically with the
Central Tax Inspectorate. The excise tax and income tax are planned to be computerized during this time
as weil. At this point, the broad based income tax system will be introduced, replacing the current
employee withholding system. The Central Tax Inspectorate will have the capacity to retrieve
information about the tax system in a much more timely fashion than ever before.



ANNEX E
Page 8 of 11
The final phase, Phase Four, will be the implementation in the regional Tax Inspectorate offices
throughout Moldova. This is expected to take another five months, from January through May 1997.
Each of the nine regional offices will establish direct links with the central office. The remaining local
Tax Inspectorate offices will be clustered into networks around the nine regional offices. The remaining
tax bases, primarily the land and real estate taxes, are expected to be computerized during this stage.
Following full implementation, the systems development team will become the Systems Design Center.
Its function will be to continually adapt the computer system to the changing tax system in Moldova.
This includes updating software as the tax code changes, maintaining a secure database of taxpayer
information, and responding to information requests from the Tax Policy office within the Ministry of
Finance.
9. Funds allocation
The following table summarizes the plan for allocating the proceeds of the loan:
Hardware                                  $1,342,145
Software                                  $ 400,000
Facilities                                $  75,000
Contingencies                             $ 100,000
Total                                     $1,917,145
Hardware
At the heart of the system will be three extra powerful computer servers, equipped with a Pentium chip.
Each will have a specialized function, and therefore a specialized configuration. The data base server
will have an extra large (5 GB) hard drive. The returns processing server will have expanded (64 MB)
memory and a large (2 GB) hard drive. The communications server will have a standard I GB hard
drive.
The Development team, the Taxpayer Identification Number center and the Chisinau territorial Tax
Inspectorates will also have Pentium machines, though not as powerful as the previous ones. Each local
Tax Inspectorate office will use a 486 machine as the
center of its processing facility.
All the machines will be linked into a two-stage network. Smaller local offices will communicate via
modem with a nearby regional center. Each of the nine regional centers will, in turn, communicate with
the central site in Chisinau. In essence, this will be one large, tenritory-wide network. This will enable
the local offices to communicate more effectively with the central office by transmitting information
electronically, rather than on paper. The Computer Center will be able to archive taxpayer records, and
provide the Ministry of Finance with information it requires to do tax policy analysis. The Ministry,
through the Central Tax Inspectorate office, will be able to quickly access information summarizing the
tax collection activities of the local offices.



ANNEX E
Page 9 of 11
The land and property tax valuation system will require four dedicated computers to properly run the
system. The research and valuation will be conducted from the central site, with the billing and
collection functions performed by the local Tax Inspectorate offices. Taxpayers' payments will be made
at local banks.
The data entry process is the most labor-intensive one, but it requires the least sophisticated computer.
The data typed in will automatically flow into a larger machine, either a central machine within a local
Tax Inspectorate office, or to the date base server at the Computer Center. Therefore, these computers
can be purchased without a hard drive and will function simply as a "dumb terminal". In addition, there
will be approximately 50 other dumb terminals around the country for on-line access to information
stored elsewhere.
The remainder of the money spent on equipment will be devoted to printers, network cards, tape backup
systems, power backup systems, and miscellaneous supplies. Details of the computer equipment
configuration are listed in the appendix as Table 3. A summary of which offices will be receiving which
type of equipment is contained as Table 4 in the Appendix.
Several different types of software will need to be purchased for the computerization of the Tax
Inspectorate and land valuation system.
*  Computer Aided Software Engineering (CASE) tool:
This is a development tool for an analyst or programmer which will be used to assist in the design
stages of the system. A multi-user license for 14 application developers will be installed in the LAN
system.
*  Microsoft Project
This is a tool for managing the development effort, which provides an automated capability to follow
the progress of the project. Delays and / or deviations can be identified and corrected immediately.
The use of this tool is essential for completing the project on time and within budget.
*  Novell Netware
This will be the software used to run the computer network. Local users will be able to send and
retrieve data and communicate with other local offices and the Data Processing center electronically.
*  Windows
This is the operating system selected for the computerization plan.
*  Unix
This is a multi-tasking software that permits several users to simultaneously access the central data
base.
*  Microsoft Office
This is a package of integrated, office automation software which includes: Word, Excel, Access and
Powerpoint.
Specialized software will be needed for the land and property valuation system. This system will
provide an integrated valuation environment that supports the major approaches to market value



ANNEX E
Page I0oflI
estimation. The valuation subsystem will allow for generation of values by the income approach for
income producing properties (including properties where imputed rent can be applied), cost approach for
land and/or buildings and the comparables approach for land and/or buildings. The system will also
support the adaptive estimation procedure as well as multiple regression analysis and descriptive
statistics. The system will provide basic data maintenance and report generation. The spatial analysis
subsystem will support automated mapping, including land value maps, multiple layers of spatial and
attribute records, polygon buffering and overlays, and land suitability analysis. The system will allow
data porting from one subsystem to another as well as to generic software such as spreadsheets and word
processors.
Facilities
The Ministry of Finance has committed space to the Application Development team. This will be in a
site apart from the Central Tax Inspectorate. The 14 person team will work here temporarily until a new
building! for the Tax Inspectorate is completed. This temporary space will need office firniture, wall
partitions, wiring for a local area network (LAN) and telephone lines. A conference room and secure
data s-w-ge will also be provided.
The central tax data base will be located in the new Tax Inspectorate building. Facilities for data storage
and offices for the development team have been taken into consideration during the planning stage for
this building.
Nine regional sites have been selected to provide connectivity to the central system. Extra telephone
lines will be provided at the sites for the modems which will be used to transmit and receive data. In the
five Chisinau Tax Inspectorate district offices and the regional offices, terminals will be installed to
provide tax filer services, such as document and payment tracking.
10. Development and training
Through a technical assistance project in Moldova, USAID is funding several aspects of the
modernization of the Moldovan Tax Inspectorate. The primary measure of assistance has been the
financing of KPMG Barents Group advisers, including a full-time Computerization Adviser who will
work on the project for a period of two years. He will be supported as required by short-term advisers in
areas such as database design, network administration and computer-aided software engineering. He has
been working closely with the Tax Inspectorate to evaluate the current state of computerization and draw
up a plan for computerization. During the next two years, he will be overseeing the implementation of
the computerization plan.
Development
The Tax Inspectorate has committed to putting together an Application Development team. Over the
course of the two year project, this team will work in consultation with the Computerization Adviser and
the system users to design and implement the system. The Application Development team will consist of
the following:
* Local hires by the Tax Inspectorate
I Database Administrator
I Network Specialist



ANNEX E
Page 11 of 11
I Computer Assisted Systems Engineering (CASE) tool specialist
I Analyst / Programmers
4 Programmers
* Transfers from the Computer Center
4 Analyst / Programmers (Taxpayer Identification Number system)
Training
Training will proceed in several stages:
* First, the Applications Development team will be trained using specialized software for system
design and management such as CASE tool and Microsoft Project. They will also be trained in using
office automation software (Microsoft Office), networking software (Novell Netware) and database
management software (Unix).
* As the system spreads throughout Moldova, users of the system will receive training in the
applications developed, on-line communications, information retrieval and office automation
software, as needed.
Both classroom style and on-the-job training will be utilized. In addition, customized courses will be
offered by short-term advisors on specific topics.






1995              FY96                  1996               FY97                  1997              FY97
D  J  F  M  A M  J  J  A  S O  N  D   J  F  M  A M  J  J  A  S O  N  D  J  F  M  A M  J  J  A  S O  N  D
Project negotiations                                                             X
Loan signature                                                                           X
Project effectiveness                                                                      x
Project completion
Project closing
Fisca gency Agreement signed                                                        X                                                                                      >
|Set up TU unit with BOL i
Advisor to TU: Banks Manager (long-term)
appointment (w/option to extend)                                                <                                                                           >:
Advisor to TU:Operations (short-term) P
appointment/training                                                             S^C
Two advisors to banks : for SME lending                                                                                                                      ; 
Key TU staff appointment                                                  X                                                                                                 i
TU's annual audits and semi-annual full                                                                                                1                                    C
progress reports                                                                                                    !                  1        
(additional banks enrollead, iasthey qualify
First set of subsidiary loan agreements signed
(subsequent agreements signed, as they                                       X         -s 
occur)
Continued checking of compliance by the                                                                            * 
participating banks with the eligibiliy                                                        
requirements (IAS audits)                                                                   
Development of Environmental Compliance 
Manual 
Environmental Compliance seminar                                                   X|
MOF to open Special Account                                    XI
EAA Director appointment/training (w/option                            x
to extend)X3
Implementation agreement signed                                                        X
EAA's annual audits and semi-annual full                                                      J                    ,,,1
progress reports                                                                                                                                            - 
Evaluate speed of disbursement of TA.                                                                                                                                       3
component                                                                                                              g               
EAA to open account                                                                 <'X> 



1998             FY99            1999             FYO            2000            FY01             2001
J  F  M A M  J J A S O  N D J F M A M  J J A S O  N D J F  M A M  J J A S O  N D J F  M A M  J
Project negotiations
Loan signature
Project effectiveness
Project completion                                                                                          X
Project closing                                                                                                                                                   r
Fiscal Agency Agreement signed
Set up TU unit with BOL                                                                                                                                            C
Advisor to TU: Banks Manager (long-term)
appointment (w(option to extend)
Advisor to TU:Operations (short-term)                                                                                                                              _
appointment/training 
Two advisors to banks: for SME lending
Key TU staff appointment                                                                                                                                           f
TU's annual audits and semi-annual full
progress reports
Pre-qualify first set of participating banks
(additional banks enro!led, as they qualify)
First set of subsidiary loan agreements signed
(subsequent agreements signed, as they                 -_-_ 
occur)
Continued checking of compliance by the
participating banks with the eligibiliy
requirements (IAS audits)
Development of Environmental Compliance
Manual
Environmental Compliance seminar
MOF to open Special Account
ll _m _
EAA Director appointment/training (w/option
to extend)
Key EAA staff, appointment
Implementation agreement signed
EAA's annual audits and semi-annual full
progress reports
Evaluate speed of disbursement of TA
component                                                                                                                                                          X
EAA to open account



ANNEX G
Page 1 of I
MOLDOVA
Private Sector Development Project
Supervision Plan
APPROXIMATE DATES               ACTIVITY   STAFF COMPOSITION                     STAFF WEEKS
2/96                            Supervision     Task Manager                             8
Procurement
Disbursement
Bank Specialist
Enterprise Specialist
Lawyer
6/96                            Supervision     Task Manager                             6
Enterprise Specialist
Bank Specialist
Environment
10/96                           Supervision     Task Manager                             6
Enterprise Specialist
Bank Specialist
1/97                            Supervision     Task Manager                             5
Enterprise Specialist
Bank Specialist
4/97                            Mid-term Review Task Manager                             6
Enterprise Specialist
Bank Specialist
Lawyer
9/97                            Supervision     Task Manager                             5
Enterprise Specialist
Bank Specialist
1/98                            Supervision     Task Manager                            5
Enterprise Specialist
Bank Specialist
12/98                           Supervision     Task Manager                             5
Enterprise Specialist
Bank Specialist
10/99                           Supervision     Task Manager                             5
Enterprise Specialist
Bank Specialist
6/2000                          Final Supervision Task Manager                           6
Enterprise Specialist
Bank Specialist
Lawyer






ANNEX H
Page I of I
Private Sector Development Loan
Technical Assistance: Esitmated Costs, Financing Plan and Procurement Methods (US$000)
Procurement Sub-Components    Govt   Govt   Govt    EU              US  .BRD                   IBRD                Total
of      of      of             AID                Procurement Method
_______________________ zMot   Neth   Gem                                   _
PIU                               r 5O                                                                                 150
EAP
Foreign consultants                                1600    1200     300    2600  Short listing                      5700
Local Consultants                  500              400     300     100    400  Short listing                      1700
TU
Banks Manager (24 months)                   600                                                                      600
Operations Advisor (24 months)              500                                                                      500
Short-term Consultants              200                                     400  Short listing                       600
SME Specialist (24 months)                  500                                                                      500
SME Specialist (24 months)                  500                                                                      500
BRI1_U 
Chief Advisor (24 months)                                           500                                              500
Short-term Consultants              200                             500                                              700
TOTAL |1050   2100    200    1500 | 1400   3400                                            11450






MAP SECTION






iBRD 24285R2
gtT.Nemiro                                               M O  L D O  VA
-     M\_< ogiiv-        U   K  R  A   I N   E
T.  1o s yV mni-f-                                     SELECTED     CITIES
NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
-48                 _       Rysh         /f)                                 .    \       C   48.                 I  IRAILROADS
\  X   <   S\   FIo,e<Q,,    tX       12               I  I-I  ROADS
\ Ribn,ta                             INTERNATIONAL
W   < _  Rezino;!;7                     BOUNDARIES
\ Foleshti/ 
The boundaries. co-Or-.
~~)   ig t          \              08~~~~~~~~~~~~ >/// ~~~~~other informalion shown
Orheo  t                                               p  di  no
,-Ply,onteadf
nng heni                                                                           Wol    i  Group.
T.                                     Gri orio  I"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  sqne, urte ea
'>\~  i~ \    \<,^,)CHISINAU\                                         T Ki
As~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~saa of< any ierto
hi|              Bende /   \   <   2Du
T.                      ausheni~~~~~~~~~~~~~o acpaneofsc
ToDnestro.X  j  ebordaskrie
T. B,,I.d        ComraA                      1  
5;_:<~~~~~~~~~~t /   (        sfnTArtsiz                      'o fotrcrbrnaiy
!} /C~~~hady f
46                                                                          ung-               U   K  R  A   I N   E                              46
tc  gul         
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KILOMETERS
0          25          50          75             To Buc.unreul  .
0                 25                  50
MILES
28N 309
NOVEMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No:       14555 MD
TYpe; SAP



