Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25099
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39770; SCL-39771; TF-20811; TF-20812; TF-28588)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO MOLDOVA
FOR THE FIRST PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 23, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2002)
Currency Unit = Lei
1 Lei = US$ 0.07
US$ I =   Lei-13.8
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARIA                 Agency for Restructuring Assistance
BOSS                 Bank Offsite Supervision System
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CPC                  Competitiveness and Productivity Center
DM                   Deutsche Mark
EAP                  Enterprise Assistance Program
EBRD                 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESSC                 Enterprise Sector Strengthening Component
EU(TACIS)            European Union Technical Assistance Program for CIS Countries
FSSC                 Financial Sector Strengthening Component
FSU                  Former Soviet Union
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
IAS                  Intemational Accounting Standards
IFC                  Intemational Finance Corporation
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NBM                  National Bank of Moldova
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PSD                  Private Sector Development Project
PRSP                 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SME                  Small and Medium-Scale Industries
SCC                  State Creditors Committee
TA                   Technical Assistance
TU                   Technical Unit
USAID                United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Luca Barbone
Sector Manager/Director:  Khaled Sherif
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Irina Astrakhan



MOLDOVA
First Private Sector Development Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             13
6. Sustainability                                                                 14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                17
9. Partner Comments                                                               19
10. Additional Information                                                        23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             33






Project ID: P008561                                      Project Name: First Private Sector Development
Project
Team Leader: Irina Astrakhan                             TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      IReport Date: December 23, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: First Private Sector Development Project      L/C/TF Number: SCL-39770;
SCL-39771;
TF-2081 1; TF-20812;
TF-28588
Country/Department: MOLDOVA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Other industry (85%); Banking (6%); Central
government administration (6%); Payment systems,
securities clearance and settlement (3%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/04/1994                             Effective:                   09/13/1996
Appraisal:  05/01/1995                               MTR:
Approval:  02/08/1996                             Closing' 07/31/2001          06/30/2002
Borrower/implementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA/NBM; MOF; MOP; AND MOE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President.      Johannes F. Linn                         Johannes F. Linn
Countrv Manager'     Luca Barbone                              Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:      Khaled Sherif                             Paul J. Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:  Irina Astrakhan                          Vladimir-Goran Kreacic
ICR Primaqy Author:  Irina Astrakhan; Matthew
Mitchell
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
IlstLtutaonal Developmenit Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance- S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Statement of Objectives. The principal objective of the first Private Sector Development Project
(PSD I), was to support and help accelerate the Government's reform program in the enterprise
and financial sectors. In support of this principal objective the project aimed to: (a) accelerate the
emergence and growth of viable SMEs; (b) streamline larger enterprises and release unproductive
assets into the market in order to create smaller, focused companies; and (c) increase the
efficiency of resource mobilization and credit allocation through the provision of assistance to the
banking system, the strengthening of the infrastructure to support banking activity, as well as
institutional and developmental support to solvent banks.
Importance of Objectives to the Economic Development. The project's objectives supported
structural reform of Moldova's economy from central planning to market orientation. Both the
Bank and the Government considered this reform essential to stimulate growth in an economy
that had been steadily declining following the country's independence in 1991. The transition was
difficult for Moldova. Once integrated into the large centrally-planned FSU economy, Moldova
had became a small, open economy, highly vulnerable to the disruption of trade and payments that
had resulted from FSU disintegration.
During 1991-93, political difficulties exacerbated Moldova's economic problems and delayed the
reform process. Following independence, armed conflict arose due to ethnic factors and
differences in approach to economic reform and restructuring of the economy. The conflict ended
in a cease fire in 1992. The political situation began to stabilize in 1994 with a new constitution
that established a framework for resolving ethnic differences and providing democratic
mechanisms for solving conflicts.
By the time of project appraisal in 1995, Moldova's GDP had fallen to only 40 percent of what it
had been just prior to independence. The country had suffered a large terms of trade shock due to:
(a) dependence on imported energy and the movement to market price levels; (b) delay in
re-establishing trade links that had broken down with the disintegration of the FSU; and the (c)
lack of a strong export base for increasing foreign exchange earnings. This combination of factors
had resulted in a substantial external balance of payments deficit that posed financing problems. In
support of a reform program to restore economic growth, the project, within a new framework of
privatization, was to focus on enhancing the linkages between enterprises and commercial banks
to create a strong private sector that would make a substantial contribution to export-led growth.
Clarity and Realism of Objectives. The overall objective made it clear that support and
acceleration of reform required simultaneous restructuring of the enterprise and financial sectors.
For the enterprise sector, the project addressed already privatized enterprises as well as potential
new ventures. This was reasonable because, at the time of project appraisal, large former state
enterprises were the dominant employers and were significantly oversized. The expected result of
restructuring was to channel the resources concentrated in large, loss-making former state
enterprises into a core group of smaller, more efficient companies.
- 2 -



Concurrent financial sector restructuring was necessary because of the increased demand for
credit that accelerated private sector development was likely to produce. Without strong banks
prepared to lend on market-based principles, there was a possibility that the restructuring efforts
might not be effective. And at the time of appraisal, Moldova's banking sector, though privatized,
lacked the resources to meet the demand for medium-term lending. It also faced a number of
institutional problems: including: (a) lack of confidence of the population in the banking system;
(b) inadequate skills necessary for commercial banking; (c) the lack of intemationally accepted
standards of accounting; and (d) an inefficient payment and clearance mechanism in the banking
network, which was likely to worsen with an increase in the volume of transactions.
The objectives were realistic because of the strong commitment the Govemment had shown to
restructuring for private sector development. In the three years prior to project appraisal (1996),
the Government had made substantial efforts to establish the macroeconomic and policy
framework for private sector development to flourish. It had achieved: (a) political stability and a
track record of improving financial discipline; (b) the development of a suitable legal framework
for enterprise development; (c) liberalized export and pricing regimes; and (e) a track record of
substantial progress in privatization.
Following the introduction of a new currency, (the lei) by the National Bank of Moldova (NBM)
in1993 and firn financial discipline, the economy began to show a dramatic recovery. Inflation,
which had been at 30-40 percent per month, for most of 1993, had declined tol percent in the
first quarter of 1995. Interest rates, which had reached a peak of 31 percent per month, had
declined to 1 percent in the third quarter of 1995. To promote exports, the Govemment had
removed all export restrictions and taxes.
When the Bank appraised the project the Govemment had made considerable progress in
establishing a conducive environment for private sector development and privatizing a substantial
number of state enterprises. The Parliament had passed the Privatization Law in 1991. However,
it was not until the restoration of political stability in 1994 that the Government had begun to
make significant progress in privatization. By mid-1995, the Government had auctioned 741
medium and large-scale enterprises and 563 small- scale enterprises. Furthermore, the
Government had announced its intention to transfer about 80 percent of state assets to private
ownership. Within the post-privatization business environment, a pilot enterprise restructuring
program had begun, including the liquidation of several large, loss-making enterprises.
Suitability of Project Design. The design of the project's components adequately reflected the
project's focus on a simultaneous restructuring of both the enterprise and financial sectors.
Overall, the preparatory work was satisfactory. The design of the Enterprise Sector Strengthening
Component (ESSC) resulted from: (a) a review of privatization experience between 1991 and
1995; (b) a survey of enterprise demand for credit; and (c) the establishment of a State Creditors
Committee (SCC) in 1995 that was to oversee the project's creditor-led adjustment program. The
design of the Financial Sector Strengthening Component (FSSC) resulted from a review of the
financial sector's status that included: (a) an audit according to International Accounting
Standards (IAS), of four large former state banks; (b) the need for improved skill levels of
banking staff; and (c) infrastructure requirements for the smooth operation of the banking system.
-3 -



The ESSC's design adequately addressed the issues affecting the transition of Moldova's
enterprises to a market-based system. The main issue the appraisal report identified was the lack
of sufficient adjustment due to several deficiencies that had resulted in a low level of
competitiveness. First, excessive capital and labor resources were concentrated in medium and
large-scale enterprises, most of which were not performing well. Working capital productivity
was low and costs were high mainly because of high energy costs. A lack of industrial design
capacity had limited product flexibility. Firms were trying to compete by lowering their prices but
were having difficulty because of large overhead combined with a low volume of output.
Managers of many enterprises lacked basic business skills and focused their efforts more on
production volumes rather than profitability. Accounting systems were still oriented toward
central planning - presenting "window-dressed" reports to the outside "center authority" rather
than analytical reports to help managers in their decision-making.
The design of the FSSC was in line with the restructuring needs of the financial sector. The
project's preparation conducted a substantial review of the banking sector in Moldova. This
review cited 22 commercial banks in the sector. Most of the banking sector's resources (67
percent) were concentrated in four former state banks. Of the remaining 18 new private banks,
most of the credit was concentrated in seven banks of significant size. These banks accounted for
29 percent of total bank credit, with the 11 other banks accounting for only 4 percent of total
credit.
An audit of the former state banks had found a severely undercapitalized system. In addition, the
had audit cited the following weaknesses-(a) inadequate credit appraisal and monitoring; (b)
absence of risk management procedures; (c) excessive lending to shareholders and loss- making
state enterprises; (d) poor internal financial controls; (e) outdated management information
systems; and (e) lack of experienced staff. The system for payments, clearing and settlements had
improved but was still deficient by modem banking efficiency standards. The adoption of an email
system had reduced transaction time from several weeks to one week. However the scope of the
system was limited. Only 6 of the 22 banks were connected to it and not all of the branches of the
connected banks were included in these connections.
Project Complexity and Implementation Capacity. The SAR categorized the project as
complex. It was to cover two sectors and it had a variety of components - line of credit, technical
assistance, and management information systems equipment. Furthermore, the implementation of
the project depended on the performance of institutions that at the time of project appraisal had
only recently come into existence - ARIA, the enterprise restructuring agency; and the Technical
Unit (TU) of National Bank of Moldova (NBM). To ensure adequate implementation capacity,
the appraisal report cited the need for above average Bank supervision during project
implementation.
Assessment of Benefits and Risks. The SAR cited the project's benefits as follows: (a)
strengthening the supply response to the Government's reform program; (b) improving financial
infrastructure by upgrading business systems; (c) enhancing the quality of banking intermediation
by strengthening the regulatory and supervisory environment; and (d) enabling private enterprises
-4 -



to obtain financing at competitive rates for export oriented investments. Given the detailed work
that took place during preparation and appraisal, including a pilot program, it should have been
possible to include some more specific indicators such as: the expected financial rate of return on
sub-projects; the number of enterprises to benefit from restructuring assistance; expected interest
rate on sub-loans, etc. Also, the project's preparatory work strongly indicated that the main
contribution of the project would be its demonstration effect on the economy rather than its
absolute contribution in terms of increases in exports, jobs, etc. Thus it would have been useful to
have some indicator of successful demonstration, such as the expected demand for services from
ARIA and NBM's Technical Unit and the attraction of external financing from sources other than
those of the Bank.
The project adequately identified the main project risks, which were: (a) increasing pressure on
the Government to reverse reform measures; (b) possible backsliding of the Government that
could prevent the Creditor's Council from liquidating former state owned enterprises that would
not have a likelihood of succeeding with restructuring; (c) a slowdown of disbursements resulting
from institutional weaknesses of NBM and the private participating banks; (d) further
deterioration of the economy and a possible increase in non-performing loans; and (e) slow
disbursement of the credit due to competition from directed subsidized credits that the
Government might introduce for political reasons.
To mitigate against a possible wavering of the Government's commitment, the project's design
focused on successful demonstration to the Government, of enterprise turnaround and improved
export performance. The project's technical assistance components were likely to reduce the
possibility of institutional weaknesses adversely affecting project disbursements. And the SAR
indicated that the prospect of the Government's introducing subsidized lines of credits was not
likely given the agreement of the Government with the banks that a significant part of its budget
for enterprises would be channeled to them at market rates through the Technical Unit of NBM.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's original objectives remained unchanged throughout implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had two original components: (i) the Enterprise Sector Strengthening Component;
and (ii) the Financial Sector Strengthening Component.
Enterprise Sector Restructuring Component (ESSC). This component, estimated to cost
US$9.3 million equivalent, (with Bank financing of US$5.82 million equivalent) consisted of two
parts. The first part, at an estimated cost of US$7.4 million equivalent, was the Enterprise
Assistance Program (EAP). This program provided technical assistance to the Government for
helping selected enterprises experiencing financial difficulty adjust to the post-privatization
business environment. The focus of the program was on producing a turnaround in promising
enterprises by helping them tighten their financial discipline and improve their technical skills. The
second part, at an estimated cost of US$1.9 million equivalent, financed the automation of the
Tax Administration in the Ministry of Finance. The provision of computer hardware and software
strengthened the ability of the MOF to collect taxes from enterprises on a more timely basis and
with lower transaction costs.
-5-



Financial Sector Strengthening Component (FSSC). This component, at a cost of US$39.7
million equivalent, (with Bank financing of US$ 29.18 million equivalent) provided funding,
technical assistance and equipment for upgrading the banking system to generate and monitor
medium term financing from the privatized and newly private banks. The FSSC consisted of four
sub-components.
The first sub-component was the provision of financial support for the credit line program. It had
the largest allocation of funds (US$31.9 million). The program provided a credit line to the
Technical Unit of the NBM for re-lending of funds to participating banks. The basis of
participating bank selection was a set of qualifying criteria, used internationally, in the following
areas: capital adequacy, asset quality, management effectiveness, earnings performance, and
liquidity.
The second sub-component was the institutional strengthening of the Technical Unit of NBM.
This component, at an estimated cost of US$ 1.1 million equivalent, was to finance technical
assistance by 2-3 foreign specialists in SME financing, for 2-3 years, along with local staff training
and equipment. The specialists were to assist banks in establishing "SME windows" or
independent, small-business lending units. This was to involve the training of loan officers in
setting up loan screening and monitoring systems. The specialists also were to be members of the
banks' loan committees. Banks not eligible for the SME window alternatively could receive
assistance in the following areas, as needed: credit analysis, financial management, planning and
budget, intemal audit and management information systems. This altemative assistance was to be
financed by an allocation of US$0.4 million.
The third sub-component was the development of the payments, clearing and settlement system
for the NBM. This was to consist of hardware and software totaling US$0.68 million to
immediately upgrade the clearing center in the NBM as well as the computer interfaces with
existing banks.
The fourth sub-component, at a cost of US$2 million equivalent, was the automation of the
NBM's intemal operations to improve its regulatory reporting and offsite supervision, according
to an information technology plan. This plan called for the acquisition of networked workstations
and the accompanying software - operating systems, data bases, analytical systems and
accounting systems.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no major revisions of components but there were three reallocations of funds among
the various components. These resulted from the changing needs of the credit line and
restructuring components during the project's implementation period. The first, in 1998, was the
reallocation of US$3 million from the credit line component and US$0.5 million from the financial
sector automation component to the restructuring component. The second, in 2000, was a
reallocation of US$1.1 million from the sub-component for a modemized payments, clearing and
settlements system to the enterprise restructuring component. The third, in 2002, was a
reallocation of US$ 1.7 million from the credit line component to the restructuring component.
-6 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no assessment of the project's quality at entry. The ICR has rated the quality at entry
as satisfactory. The project's design resulted from detailed background work and surveys in both
the enterprise and financial sectors. The Bank consulted closely with the Government on the
objectives and components of the project. The components fit the principal objective, which was
supporting the Moldova's transition to a market economy through restructuring the enterprise and
financial sectors. Moreover, the project contained innovative elements for a transition economy.
The main innovation was the establishment of a quasi-governmental entity with a corporate
structure in order to facilitate the restructuring of firms in serious financial difficulty. The
Government had demonstrated its commitment to reform by adopting key elements in the legal
and administrative framework necessary for private sector development and conducting a
successful pilot project. The project's SAR provided an analysis of alternatives to the project with
reasons for their rejection. It did not provide much detail on the lessons learned from previous
projects. However, other project documentation indicates that the project's design was based on a
successful model in Eastern Europe.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ou/tcome/achievemnentofobjective:
Overall Outcome. The project met its principal objective by serving as a major catalyst for
sustainable restructuring program for both the enterprise and banking sectors in Moldova. The
most important results of the program are: (a) increased access to finance for private enterprises;
(b) the promotion of managerial and financial improvements in commercial banks; (c) significant
restructuring and rationalization of several loss-making, large, state-owned companies; and (d) the
development of a nascent management-consulting industry. The sustainability of the project is
likely given: (a) the strong performance of both enterprises supported by the credit line and the
participating banks; and (b) the continued operation of the institutions created by the project to
promote private sector development (ARIA and the Technical Unit of NBM). The project had a
substantial impact on institutional development in Moldova, in both the enterprise and banking
sectors, and the Bank is using PSD I's design as a model for other such projects in the Europe
and Central Asia Region. Bank supervision reports for the last four years have rated PSD I's
overall performance as satisfactory. At the same time these reports have rated both the
restructuring and line of credit components as highly satisfactory. The ICR concurs with the
overall satisfactory rating for the project's outcome, despite higher performance of these
components, for several reasons. First, the Government delayed clarification of ARIA's
institutional status, which remained uncertain at project closing. Second, after the completion of
disbursements on the credit line, the Government transferred the Technical Unit of the NBM to
the Ministry of Finance, against the recommendations of the Bank. Third, unresolved
procurement problems for the computer hardware and software to increase the efficiency of
banking sector transactions, led to the cancellation of this component. Combined with the
institutional development, this component was an important element in improving the efficiency of
the banking system's operations. The delays in the installation of this system will continue to have
high costs to the commercial banks.
Contribution to Key Thematic Objectives.The project contributed to five objectives of
thematic importance to the Bank - private sector development; financial objectives; public sector
- 7-



management; sector policies; and macroeconomic development. The project's substantial
contribution to private sector development is evident in the number of restructured and new
SMEs as well as the creation of a consulting industry for restructuring and enterprise
management.
The project has made a substantial contribution to strenrthening the banking system. This
included the introduction of medium-term lending in Moldova and improved quality of the
banking system. PSD I channeled an initial US$23.6 million through the banking system for
medium-term lending to enterprises for investment projects. These projects are performing very
well and generating repayments. The repayments have allowed the banks to generate additional
medium term lending which to date amounts to about US$14 million. Overall the project has
provided a substantial upgrading of banking sector skills and at the time of project closing the
performance of all participating banks was satisfactory.
The creation of ARIA as a public sector, quasi-governmental agency fulfilled the need for a focal
point of knowledge transfer to support enterprise development. ARIA has had a substantial
impact by demonstrating that public sector institutions with sufficient independence, dynamic
leadership, and experienced private sector advisors can make a substantial contribution to
facilitating the transformation to a market economy. However, due to the inconsistency of the
Government's approach towards ARIA, leaving the agency's status uncertain at project closing,
the ICR has rated the project's contribution to public sector management as modest.
On the macroeconomic front, the project's main objective was to demonstrate a viable model for
private sector development that, over time, would have a substantial macroeconomic impact. The
first project, on its own, was not expected to achieve major economic gains. Overall PSD I was
successful in demonstrating the viability of expanding and upgrading the private sector as the key
vehicle for economic recovery in Moldova and at the same tirne the project contributed to both
exports and improved productivity. Therefore, the ICR has rated the contribution to
macroeconomic development as substantial. The project's contribution to sector policy was also
substantial given that the Government, during the project's implementation, adopted 37
legislative acts in support of private sector development.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Enterprise Sector Strengthening Component (ESSC)
Successful Demonstration of a "Knowledge Broker Model" for Restructuring Former State
Enterprises. The project successfully demonstrated the effectiveness of enterprise restructuring
based on a "knowledge broker model" in which the Bank became the broker by funding a
program to bring together a well-trained restructuring agency and failing and loss making
enterprises with serious structure problems, such as a large, under-utilized labor force and too
many unprofitable activities outside the core business, etc. The basis of the model was the
successful Restructuring Fund (Sklad) in Slovenia. The founding director of this fund was
contracted through the Central and East European Privatization Network (CEEPN) to assemble a
team and set up a temporary office in Moldova to provide training for Moldova's Enterprise
Assistance Program.
-8 -



The Government established the Agency for Enterprise Restructuring Assistance (ARIA) on July
15, 1995. The purpose of ARIA was to manage and coordinate technical assistance from
international and domestic sources for the Enterprise Assistance Program. The project has
demonstrated substantial demand for advisory services and the willingness of enterprises to pay
for them. It has shown also that these services are likely to be sustainable. Furthermore, the
project's results have shown that enterprises that have received ARIA's assistance have been
performing better than unassisted enterprises in many areas.
Initially the incentive for restructuring came from actions taken by a Council of Creditors under a
restructuring law. ARIA used the leverage of bankruptcy and restructuring legislation to motivate
large, loss-making enterprises to participate in deep restructuring -- identifying a profitable core
business and shedding non-core assets. The alternative to restructuring was the liquidation of
enterprises, which would release assets into the market for smaller enterprises with a greater
prospect of profitability. Another incentive for participating in the program was the moratorium
on debt payments during the restructuring period.
The original Bank allocation for ESSC was US$3 million (out of a total cost of US$7.4 million).
However, by 1997, only two years into the project, ARIA had utilized all of the Bank funds for
the component. At that time, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to reallocate an additional
US$2.5 million from the credit line component for restructuring assistance. Also in 1997 the
Bank approved the Second Private Sector Development Project (PSD II) to meet the demand
for additional services in management training.
The Enterprise Assistance Program has demonstrated a substantial willingness of enterprises to
pay for these services. During the project period, ARIA was able to achieve a self-financing ratio
of 30-50 percent. The agency also was able to attract financing from sources other than the
Bank. For example, ARIA has assisted 12 additional enterprises in their restructuring with
financing from the Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States (TACIS)
program and bilateral assistance from, Italy and Japan.
Streamlining of Unproductive, Large Enterprises and the Release of Assets to Generate
Smaller, More Productive Enterprises. During 1996-2000, ARIA provided restructuring
assistance to 93 enterprises. This assistance resulted in the actual restructuring of 63 enterprises.
There were 11 enterprises that went through bankruptcy proceedings. The result of these
proceedings was the reorganization of three enterprises and the liquidation of eight enterprises. In
addition there were 19 enterprises that entered the program but did not complete it. The Council
of Creditors, with its threat of bankruptcy, played a key role early in the project, resulting in the
restructuring of 24 enterprises. However, as the project progressed and enterprises saw the
benefits of the program they sought ARIA assistance voluntarily and the role of the Council of
Creditors diminished. In addition to the restructuring program, ARIA provided assistance to 480
SMEs. About 80 of these enterprises were spin-offs from restructured companies. A larger
number resulted (370) resulted from an innovating concept of creating seven industrial parks to
serve as incubators of unused assets for reforging to give birth to new businesses. In addition to
restructuring services, by the end of the project, ARIA had developed a number of new services
including management training, business planning, and market research.
-9-



Establishment of Consulting Companies for Delivery of Advisory Services to Privatized
Companies and New Enterprises. ARIA far exceeded its targets for the training of consultants
and company managers. The agency has trained more than 400 local consultants in enterprise
diagnostics and restructuring techniques compared to an initial estimate of 200. Also, ARIA
trained 1,300 company managers in basic management techniques compared to an initial estimate
of only 300. About 40 consulting companies have developed to make use of the trained
consultants. ARIA, moreover, has diligently disseminated the results of its best practices through
seminars, workshops, and mass media.
Modernization of the Technical Operations of the Tax System. The project financed the
equipment for automation of the tax collection and fiscal management system and at project
closing the Government was fully utilizing this system. While the project did not finance the
development of application software, local consultants completed this development on the
available DOS platforrn and additional software development was in the planning stage for the
transfer of the application to the latest software technology platform.
Economic Impact of the Project. A review of enterprise performance under PSD I, conducted
for the period 1995-2000, has provided several indicators of the restructuring program's success.
The review compared 91 enterprises that received ARIA assistance with a sample of 339
enterprises that did not receive this assistance. The enterprises receiving ARIA assistance were
on average worse off at the outset than those enterprises that the project did not assist. A key
indicator in the survey was a 16 percent increase in sales per employee for ARIA-assisted firms
compared to a 13.4 percent decrease in sales per employee in the sample fimns that did not receive
assistance. An important area of restructuring was the focus on exports and foreign investment.
The survey indicated that the share of exports by firms receiving project assistance increased from
4 percent to 18.2 percent during the period. Also project data indicate that the project helped to
generate about US$ 40 million in foreign investment.
Financial Sector Strengthening Component (FSSC)
Established Viability of Medium-Term Lending. Prior to the project there was virtually no
medium-term lending in Moldova. An enterprise survey had indicated that the lack of access to
this type of financing was a key constraint to enterprise development. In response to this need, the
project channeled US$23.6 million to the private banking sector in Moldova to support enterprise
development. These resources financed 164 sub-projects. Table I shows the breakdown of the
lending by enterprise sub-sector, indicating that nearly half of the project's financed were in the
agro-processing sector.
Table 1: Profile of Sub-Projects Financed by Enterprise Sub-Sector
Enterprise Sub-Sector                 % Share in Credit Line
Agro-Processing                        49
Trade and Services                     36
Industry and Communications            15
Total                                 100
-10-



As of the final disbursement for the credit line in January 2002, the project had financed 107
sub-projects from the original credit line funds and 57 projects from a combination of the credit
line and the revolving fund, totaling 164 projects. Table 2 summarizes the key characteristics of
the sub-loans financed by the original credit line. These sub-loans from the banks to eligible
enterprises varied in size from US$53,000 to US$650,000 with an average sub-loan size of
US$336,000. An indication of the viability of these projects is the high repayment rate, which is
about 98 percent. At the time of project closing, there were no non-performing loans. Of the total
sub-projects financed, 54 percent were investment and the remaining 46 percent of sub-loans were
for working capital. The project helped increase the lending term of the banking system from
short 3-6 month terms at interest rates of 18-30 percent, to an average term of 32 months with an
average annual interest rate of 15.4 percent.
Table 2: Profile of Subloansfrom the Original Credit Line Funds by Participating Bank
Participating  No. of   Loan Amount   Average   CLD     Participating  Amount
Bank      Sub-Loans (US$ Equivalent)  Term  Interest  Bank Interest  Outstanding
(months) Rate (%)  Rate (%)       (%)
Agroindbank      17      $4,666,306.94  30.3     8.4       15.2          0.0
Mobiasbank       15      $2,964,768.50  26.9      7.9       16 0        25.5
Fincombank       12      $734,138.13    22.3      8 6       16.0        13.9
Victoriabank    15       $5,950,123.83  48.3     7.2        13.7        29.2
Universalbank   33       $6,507,555.46  33.9     7 9        17.2        29.2
Banca Sociala    I 1     $3,455,214.99  29.6     7.6        16.9        21.4
Moldincombank    4       $1,508,762.36  31.3      8.4       13.0        117 3
Total Credit
Line            107      S25,786,870.19  31.8    8.0       15.4         28.0
Upgraded Loan Appraisal and Monitoring Capacity of the Participating Banks. Of the 22
private banks in the banking sector at the time of project appraisal, there were 8 banks that
ultimately met the eligibility requirements for participating in the project. The participating banks
were Agroindbank, Victoriabank, Universalbank, Mobiasbank, Fincombank, Banca Sociala,
Energbank, and Moldincombank. These banks represent about 90 percent of the assets in the
banking sector.
The credit line component provided two positive benefits to the participating banks. First, the
provision of fumds served as an incentive for the banks to improve their operations in order to
meet fund eligibility criteria. Second, the banks gained experience in managing credit line
resources. This experience has strengthened these banks' internal organization in credit appraisal
and risk management. They also became familiar with tendering procedures. The capacity
building that took place under the project should help the banks in their own lending operations
and in their participation in other projects financed by the Bank or other sources of extemal
funding for the banking system.
In addition to the medium-term lending experience they gained under the credit line component,
the participating banks received technical assistance from a Dutch grant for PSD I. This grant
funded training in: (a) lending practices; (b) establishment of SME departments in the
participating banks; (c) a review of SME lending practices; and (d) the implementation of loan
- 1 1 -



analysis and management information systems. The project also familiarized the NBM with global
standards for best practices in central banks, including: (a) relationships with contractors; (b)
better interfaces with commexcial bank database systems for statistical collection; (c)
implementation of the Bank Offsite Supervision System (BOSS); and (d) implementation of
systems allowing more effective auctions of govemment paper and provision of discount credits
to commercial banks. Table 3 summarizes key performance indicators for the participating banks.
Table 3: Key Performance Indicatorsfor Participating Banks
Partcipating Bank  Non performing loans  Capital adequacy ratio  Return on Assets  Return on Equity
to total loans
Agroindbank             5.54             39 08             1.36             5.33
Mob,asbank              2.33             57.63             2 04              5.39
Fincombank              1.50             42 14             0.80              2.56
Victoriabank            3.13             25.80             1.68             9.30
Umiversalbank           7.83             43.89             0.79             2.52
Banca Sociala           0.11             32.02             0 79              4 05
Moldmndconbank          3.16             25.20             0 95              5.48
Energbank               0.72             72.38             I 01              2.82
All Moldovan Banks      2.23             43.86             0.68             2.45
Improved Technical Operation of the Banking Sector. The project completed the intemal
automation of the NBM as planned. The installation of these systems took place during 1997-98
and they have been operating successfully since then. However, the project did not complete the
installation of the payments clearing system for the banking sector. NBM was the implementing
agency in charge of procuring and installing the system. There were two rounds of bidding for
the system. In the first round, a foreign consultant financed by TACIS prepared the
specifications. The Bank evaluated these specifications as adequate for the hardware and the
operating system software but not adequate for the application software. In addition, there was a
lack of performance indicators. After considerable discussions of how to resolve the problem, the
selected bidder was unable to take on the work because of too many other commitments. A
second round of bidding took place with improved specifications prepared by a Bank specialist.
However, it turned out that the company with the lowest evaluated bid could not provide the full
range of services. Finally, the Government realized that it would not have time to procure the
system with Bank funds by the closing date of the project and ultimately the Bank and the
Government agreed to cancel the component.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable to this project. The SAR did not calculate the net present value or economic rate
of return.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable to this project. The SAR did not calculate the net present value or economic rate
of return.
4.5 Institutional development impact
The project had a high impact on institutional development in both the enterprise and banking
sectors. It introduced two innovations in Moldova that have served as important catalysts for
private sector development. First, ARIA has channeled human and physical resources for
- 12 -



significant restructuring of former state enterprises and has helped build a substantial local
consulting capacity to continue the process of restructuring and new business development.
Essentially ARIA transformed itself from an implementation agency for one project component to
a major consulting firm and training company. The agency exceeded all performance targets (see
Annex 1) and developed a number of services beyond the scope of the project, including: (a)
product development and implementation of national accounting standards; (b) management
information system development; (c) advanced restructuring and quality improvement; and (d)
pilot ISO 9000 improvements. The success of ARIA's restructuring program has encouraged
other countries to adopt a similar model. Since the project's closing, ARIA has continued to
operate in a self-sustainable manner. Second, the project, through the credit line and technical
assistance, has set in motion market-based, medium-term lending operations and has helped
upgrade the commercial banking sector's capabilities to sustain these operations. The Technical
Unit of NBM, which the project supported, has continued to operate within the Ministry of
Finance. It is managing the revolving funds generated by repayments of funds lent from the
project's credit line component.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There are several external factors that likely have had an impact on the project. The first is the
Russian economic and financial crisis of 1998, which has had a severe impact on the economies of
countries, including Moldova, that depend considerably on Russia as the major export market. In
addition, a drought in the summer of 2000 and a severe ice storm in the fall of the same year led
to a drop in the output of agricultural commodities and a significant deterioration of energy sector
facilities. The main impact of these factors, particularly the Russian crisis, was on the profitability
of two participating banks. However, the training the project provided and more intensive Bank
supervision of these banks minimized the ultimate adverse impact of these- factors. At the closing
of the project the performance of both enterprises and banks was satisfactory.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Despite frequent changes of govenmment during the project cycle, the Government remained
committed to the broad project objectives. During project implementation the Government
passed 37 pieces of legislation supportive of private sector development. However, delays in
adopting a law governing nongovernmental organizations has resulted in some uncertainty about
the institutional future of ARIA.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were two main factors subject to implementing agency control that had an impact on the
project. The first was the success of ARIA due to its design and dynamic management, which led
to high demand for the agency's restructuring services. The high demand led to early
commitment of available funds. As a result, the Bank reallocated project funds from the credit line
component, which initially was disbursing slowly toward the successful restructuring component.
The second factor was the substantial delay in the procurement of the payments processing
system, which eventually led to the component's cancellation. The impact of the cancellation is
the continued reliance on the existing system which has long delays.
-13-



5.4 Costs and inancing.
The overall cost of the project was US$38.4 million compared to an appraisal estimate of US$49
million. Of this total, the Bank provided US$32 million from two loans -- IBRD Loan 39770,
denominated in US dollars for about US$25 million and IBRD Loan 39771, denominated in
Deutsche Marks (DM) for about US$7 million. The rationale for the provision of a DM loan in
addition to the US dollar loan was that many sub-borrowers for the credit line component were
likely to earn export revenue in DM. The Bank disbursed 99 percent of both loans. At the
request of the Borrower, the Bank cancelled the relatively small remaining amounts as follows:
US$14,859.42 (on February 6, 2002) for Loan 39770; and EUE88,791.36 (on November 21,
2001) for Loan 39771.
The actual project cost was lower than the estimate at appraisal due to: (a) the fluctuation of the
exchange rate.between the DM relative to the US$, which decreased the US$ equivalent of the
DM-denominated loan from an estimated US$10 million at appraisal to US$7 million at project
closing; and (b) and the lower than anticipated contribution from the Government and the private
sector, which was less than US$1 million at project closing compared to an estimnated US$7
million at project appraisal. The Government's contribution was lower because of a tight budget
and events not foreseen at appraisal such as the Russian Crisis and drought conditions.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationaleforsustaitnability rating:
The ICR has rated the sustainability as likely. At project closing, the enterprises that had received
financing from the credit line appeared to be viable and the performance of all the participating
banks was satisfactory.
There are also signs of continued enterprise restructuring and development beyond the project.
ARIA has generated enough self-financing to continue operations on its own. However, there
remains some concern about ARIA's status as a non-governmental organization, specifically: (a)
the final form of a new law governing these organizations; and (b) the decision of the supervisory
board on its institutional transformation. In any case, the project has trained a large base of
consultants in restructuring. These consultants are likely to continue providing restructuring
services in Moldova and in other countries. At the same time, the Bank is continuing to assist in
management training and enterprise competitiveness enhancement under the ongoing PSD II
project. Its objectives are to: (a) increase managerial capacity in private and privatized enterprises;
and (b) improve the competitiveness of the private sector in domestic and international markets.
In the financial sector, the project provided extensive training in risk management, which has
encouraged banks to increase the term of lending from their own resources - from less than three
months at the time of appraisal to about a year at project closing. Furthermore, the Technical
Unit that operated under NBM during the project continues to operate a revolving fund for
enterprise development from repayments of sub-loans. This unit is now located in the Ministry of
Finance. The revolving funds should remain available to the banking sector for further
medium-term re-lending. To date, the participating banks have lent an additional US$14 million
to enterprises from the revolving funds. These banks also have been able to obtain additional
- 14-



funds for medium-term lending from external funding sources outside the Bank. Furthermore, to
build upon progress achieved during the PSD I and PSD II, and meet growing enterprise demand
for financing, the Bank and the Government have discussed the need for a PSD III. While the
proposed project is still in the project pipeline for Moldova, a final decision is pending completion
of the CAS and the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
6.2 Tlansition arrangement to regular operations:
For PSD I, the transition to regular operations concerns arrangements that will ensure Moldova
will have the advisory and financial mechanisms in place to continue supporting reform objectives
through private sector expansion and quality improvement now that the project has closed. For
enterprise strengthening, ARIA is continuing to provide assistance on a fee basis and has trained
many consultants who in turn are providing services for restructuring in Moldova and in other
neighboring countries. Furthermore, given the success of the project, PSD II is providing funds
to expand management training advisory services and also help companies access benchmarking
information to improve their competitiveness.
In the banking sector, the project has made a substantial contribution upgrading the operations of
the participating banks. To meet eligibility requirements for project funds, the banks have had to
establish higher standards of practice. Training in risk management has encouraged banks to lend
their own funds for longer terms than before. The Technical Unit of NBM, now operating within
the Ministry of Finance, is continuing to manage a revolving fund that has resulted from the
payback of sub-loans under PSD I. The Borrower is interested in a follow-up operation that
includes a credit line under a possible PSD III project. As indicated above, the Bank's decision
will depend on the new PSRP and CAS. The medium-term lending operations that project has
established are likely to continue, although the level of such operations is not clear at the moment.
Recent estimates of the demand and supply for medium-term funds indicate a possible financing
gap. However, other international financial institutions, notably EBRD and IFC, have begun to
provide funds for sector development in Moldova and the Bank will continue to monitor the
demand and supply situation of funds for medium-term lending.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bantk
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending was satisfactory. The project's objectives were in line with
the priority needs of the Government and the Bank's CAS. The design of the project's
components supported reform objectives for the enterprise and financial sectors. Moreover, the
operation built upon a successful model for private sector development and a pilot project in
progress at the time of project appraisal.
7.2 Supe-vision:
The Bank's performance in supervision was satisfactory. Supervision reporting was very
thorough and in line with the more intensive supervision that the SAR had recommended due to
the project's complexity. The Bank was flexible in the reallocation of Bank resources and
conducted an in-depth review of the enterprise restructuring program and ARIA's performance.
However, with hindsight, the Bank should have insisted more on completing the payments
- 15-



clearing system, which the project was to install, considering the system's importance to reducing
transaction time and the related costs to the banks.
7.3 Overall Bankpeiform7ance:
The Bank's performance overall was satisfactory due to the substantial lending preparation work
and intensity and flexibility of supervision performance.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower perfornance in project preparation was satisfactory. Prior to Board presentation, the
Borrower showed a high level of commitment to the project and took a number of important
policy actions. A key action in the enterprise sector was the government's decision to privatize
800 enterprises during 1995/96. The government also took two key actions in the banking sector:
(a) NBM's signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with I 1 problem banks setting out
measures necessary to reach a positive capital position by July 1, 1995; and (b) the Parliament's
approval of a law strengthening NBM's supervisory function.
7.5 Governnient implementation performiance:
For the most part, the Government took ownership of the project as an integral part of the reform
program. While the changing political landscape during implementation resulted in some delays, it
did not prevent the project from reaching its objectives. There were two shortcomings in
performance. The first was the lack of an established law governing non-governmental
organizations during the project, leaving ARIA's institutional future uncertain. The second was
the transfer of the Technical Unit of NBM and the project's revolving fund for medium-term
lending to the Ministry of Finance. The Bank had advised against this move during the project
because with the NBM the funds were more likely to remain in the banking system. The
Govermment complied during nearly all of the project implementation period but towards the end
for the project, following the final disbursement on the credit line, the Government proceeded
with the transfer. These shortcomings, though of some concern, do not outweigh the overall
commitment of the Government to the reform objectives during project implementation and have
not impaired the achievement of the project's development objective. Therefore the ICR has
rated the Government's implementation performance as satisfactory.
7.6 ImplementingAgencv:
The overall performance of the project's implementing agencies was satisfactory. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), located in the Ministry of Finance, did a thorough job monitoring
project implementation and loan disbursement. ARIA's performance displayed considerable
motivation and innovation. The agency effectively used project resources. ARIA expanded it's
product line of services to include new elements such as: (a) building local consulting capacity;
(b) arranging study tours for blue collar workers; and (c) obtaining exclusive rights to distribute a
well-known "20 Keys " program for workplace improvement. The effective performance of the
Technical Unit under NBM is evident in the upgrading of the banking sector and the satisfactory
performance of the SME loan portfolio under the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory due to: (a) the Government's strong
commitment to reform objectives; (b) the strong performance of its implementing agencies in
- 16 -



overall project management; and (c) the satisfactory project results in strengthening the enterprise
and financial sectors.
8. Lessons Learned
8. 1 Lessons of Broad Applicability to Bank -Financed Projects
Finding a Suitable Entry Pointfor Privatization and Addressing Market Failures. Instead of
trying to address all aspects of privatization in a single project, it is important to find a suitable
entry point and build on existing institutions as much as possible. In the case of Moldova, the
entry point was a special bankruptcy program and the existing Council of Creditors, on the
demand side, to deal with the problem of large, loss-making formner state enterprises. However,
there was a market failure on the supply side, which the project addressed through establishing
ARIA as a special restructuring agency. The initial entry point for restructuring was a
creditor-led approach. The demonstration of the successful turnaround of enterprises to
restructuring then gave way to voluntary entry of enterprises into the program. And after
successful restructuring, ARIA began to establish more product lines to meet the needs of the
restructured enterprises. And from the initial creditor-led entry point, the project helped create an
industry of professional services for enterprise restructuring and management development.
Building a Critical Mass of Successful Enterprises to Sustain the Privatization Process. After
establishing an appropriate entry point for change, it is important to build a critical mass of
advisors and successful managers to firmly establish the new corporate culture. Publicizing
results and developing effective marketing services are important tools to accelerate privatization
and minimize the risk that inertia will set in and enterprises will return to former, less efficient
ways of doing business.
Adopting a Realistic, Long-Term View of Enterprise and Financial Sector Reform in the
Selection of Lending Instrument. Making a transition from central planning to a market
economy and related enterprise reform is an enormous task. The process usually involves new
laws, institutions, and changes in patterns of behavior. Such a transformation is likely to be
beyond the scope of a single investment project, which has a usual span of about five years. The
priorities in the sector and in the Bank's overall lending program might change. The Adaptable
Program Lending (APL) mechanism may be more suitable than successive investment projects
because there is more flexibility for adapting them to changing market conditions and such a
mechanism encourages the adoption of a long-term viewpoint.
Promoting the Bank as a Brokerfor Horizontal Learning Services instead of a Dispenser of
Global Best Practice. PSD I was a successful example of the Bank fulfilling the role of
knowledge broker rather than knowledge storehouse. The Bank provided the resources for
horizontal learning between clients in need of advice and advisors who had practical experience of
"best practice" restructuring in similar transition economies. This model, at least initially, may be
more appropriate than the alternative model of the Bank's dispensing the best "global" practice.
Creating Industrial Parks to Transform Old Enterprise Liquidation into a Foundation for
New Enterprise Creation. The creation of industrial parks was a successful restructuring option
-17 -



which focused on enabling intemal transformation of assets instead of promoting extemal
replacement. Most advanced market economies see liquidation bankruptcy and new business
start-ups as separate economic processes. The company assets are sold at auction and a pool of
unemployed workers results from the downsizing. As an altemative, the industrial park
altemative is based on the concept that middle managers in the company might have ideas for
start-up companies but not enough entrepreneurial experience to risk giving up their job to start
their own company. So instead of auctioning the company's assets, the bankruptcy process
creates an industrial park that gives middle-level managers the opportunity to exchange some of
their unpaid wages for a lease of business space and assets necessary for a new start-up company,
for a certain period of time. Any spaces not taken by "intemal tenants" from the company may
then be offered to extemal tenants and bring in rental income. As some of the small, new start-up
companies grow, they begin to hire back the former employees of the large state-owned
company. This solution can be appealing to the Government as well because it inspires hope for
economic renewal and lessens the possibility of social upheaval. And there is significant potential
for applicability in other countries.
Intensifying Bank Supervision Efforts in Response to Crisis. Intensive Bank supervision of
PSD I bank portfolio helped banks cope with the deleterious impact of the 1998 Russian
economic on the banking sector in Moldova. This sector emerged from the crisis without major
bank failures and at the time of project closing the performance of all of the participating banks in
the project, which represent about 90 percent of the banking system assets in Moldova, was
satisfactory.
Giving Greater Attention to SpecifEcations for Procurement of Sophisticated Technologies in
Bank Projects. Due to the increasing complexity of technologies, especially computer hardware
and software, expert assistance in the preparation of specifications can be critical, especially if the
technology is likely to have a significant impact. In the case of PSD I, the tendering for a modem
payments clearance system in the banking sector began early in the project. The system was
important for decreasing transaction time and reducing transactions costs. The lack of
appropriate specifications was a key factor in the delay. Although the tendering for the system
began very early in the project, because of deficiencies in specifications and the evaluation
process, the procurement and installation of the system ultimately never took place.
8.2 Lessons Specific To Private Sector Development in Moldova
Meeting the Demandfor Medium-Term Lending Beyond the Project. The demand for
medium-term lending in Moldova currently is greater than supply from domestic and external
sources. In the absence of a follow-up PSD project that provides credit line funds, the Bank
should continue to monitor the demand and supply situation for these resources under the
ongoing Structural Adjustment Credit.
Clarifying the Institutional Framework It would have been helpful to define the legal and
institutional framework for post-project transition of the project's two implementing agencies -
ARIA and the Technical Unit of the National Bank of Moldova in the project's appraisal or early
in project implementation. At the end of the project, ARIA was sustainable in terms of generating
-18 -



its own funds. However, there was still no law in place for nongovernmental organizations and
ARIA's future remained vulnerable to changes in Government policy. Also, at project closing,
the Govemment had transferred the Technical Unit for bank evaluation and monitoring from the
NBM to the Ministry of Finance. The Bank held the view that the NBM was the more
appropriate location for the Technical because of the greater probability that funds would remain
in the banking system for medium-term lending.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/implementing agency:
Moldova
First Private Sector Development Project
(Loan no. 3977-0, 3977-1 MD)
Project Completion Report
Ministry Of Finance of the Republic of Moldova
I. Project Background and Objective.
As per Loan Agreement No. 3977-0, 3977-1 MD, signed between the Government of the
Republic of Moldova and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
on April 17, 1996, a Loan in the amount of USD 25 million and DM 14 million., equivalent to
USD 35 million., was allocated for the First Private Sector Development Project. The
completion date of the project was expected to be on June 30, 2002.
The main objective of the First Private Sector Development Project (PSD I) was to support
the Government of the Republic of Moldova in expediting its reforms in the production and
financial sectors, by means of strengthening the link between enterprises and commercial
banks.
* To accelerate the establishment and growth of small and medium enterprises;
* To streamline large enterprises; and
* To increase the efficiency of resource mobilisation and credit allocation through the
provision of assistance in the banking system restructuring process, to support the institutional
development for solvent banks.
II. Implementation and Accomplishments of the Project
The Agency for Enterprise Restructuring and Assistance (ARIA) was established as a
non-governmental, non-commercial and independent organization in order to implement and
coordinate the technical assistance provided for the enterprise sector restructuring. This entity
was steered by a Supervisory Board chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of
Moldova.
With a view to managing the Credit Line, a Technical Unit was established under the National
Bank of Moldova, where a Technical Unit Committee performed its activity being chaired by
the Deputy Minister of Finance. The National Bank of Moldova was established as a Fiscal
- 19 -



Agent of the PSD I Project. The implementation, monitoring and management of the Loan
proceeds was carried out by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established under the
Ministry of Finance.
The Credit Line Component
The Credit Line was managed by the TU established under the NBM, and it aimed at
increasing the efficiency of resource mobilization and of credit allocation through the
provision of assistance in the banking system restructuring process. Beneficiaries of
resources: economic entities in the private sector, viable small and medium enterprises in all
sectors of the national economy, Participating Financial Institutions (PFI): 8 local banks
eligible to use World Bank resources.
The objectives stipulated in the Loan Agreement regarding the implementation of this
component of the Project were accomplished. During the project implementation period, 164
sub-projects were approved, including 99 sub-projects financed from World Bank resources,
the rest - from the Revolving Account. Although in recent years an essential increase was
noted in the volume of credits on the financial market of Moldova, the World Bank's Credit
Line remains the most attractive one. Throughout 1997-2001, it was the only Credit Line
(CL) that provided large credits (over USD 1 million), with accessible interest rates and rather
long terms (from 3 to 7 years).
The strengths related to the successful implementation of this part are as follows:
* Development of the Operations Manual and Procedures for the Credit Line, as well as
their application;
* Provision of technical assistance by foreign consultants in selecting and evaluating eligible
local banks, assessing sub-projects, training PFI personnel in SME crediting, establishing
specialised departments within certain PFIs, implementing credit analysis programmes and
management information systems, etc.
Automation of the National Bank of Moldova
The need for procurement of computers for the National Bank of Moldova (NBM) was
commanded by the development of the functions carried out by the NBM, by the continuous
improvement in the data processing technologies and the increasing volume of data. These
particular objective circumstances detemined the need for the procurement and
implementation of modem data processing technologies in the NBM.
It is worth mentioning that the implementation and the use of technologies procured from the
Loan had a positive net impact on the daily activity of the NBM, ensuring both technical and
technological support, and encouraging the continuous improvement of information
technologies. Unfortunately, the objective related to the implementation of Component B2 -
"Procurement of Payments and Clearing System for the NBM" - was not accomplished due to
2 unsuccessful tenders organised by the NBM for the given Component.
-20 -



Automation of the main State Tax Service
The procurement of computers for this Component of the Project was carried out in order to
develop the Information System of the main State Tax Service. As a result, 42 local networks
connected via e-mail were installed and put to use.
The Tax Service, along with the "Barents Group" consultants, developed a complex
infornation system for tax administration, initially as a pilot-project on a DOS+Foxpro
platform, and subsequently on a UNIX+WINDOWS NT+INFORMIX platform. This system
comprises elements for the administration of all taxes, including: (i) registration of economic
entities; (ii) VAT administration; (iii) profit tax administration;. (iv) income tax administration;
(v) administration of payments and settlements with Local and State Treasuries.
Since 1998, the tax documents are fully inputted in the database, which brings about good
opportunities for the analysis of tax policy outcomes. Provided a database of tax documents
(fully inputted) for the past 3 years, all the concepts and prerequisites are in place for the
automated development of centralised plans, that is to say for the selection of the taxpayers to
be controlled, for the planning of audits and supervision of these plans' fulfilment.
Concurrently, the Tax Service is developing its web-server. Since April, 2002, the main State
Tax Service put into service the countrywide office for the centralised processing of
documents. This opens new perspectives for the improvement of tax administration and
implementation of modem practices of dealing with the tax payers.
Technical Assistance for Enterprise Sector Restructuring
The Agency for Enterprise Restructuring and Assistance (ARIA) was established by the
Government in order to guide, monitor and coordinate. the technical assistance provided
through the Component C of PSD I.
This component of the project was designed to facilitate private sector development by (i)
providing technical assistance, drafting restructuring plans, business and investment plans for
the enterprises included in the restructuring programme, (ii) establishing SMEs; (iii) directing
large enterprises through re-sizing and sale of redundant assets on the market in order to
establish smaller viable enterprises; (iv) building local consulting and managerial capacity
through training.
In order to accomplish the aforementioned objectives, 15 foreign consultants and 593 local
consultants were selected and employed.
During the implementation of PSD I, ARIA provided technical assistance to 93 enterprises
(out of which 63 finalised) within the restructuring, reorganisation and liquidation
programmes, and namely:
* 70 diagnostic analyses and 81 express diagnostic analyses were drafted;
-21 -



* 63 restructuring and reorganisation plans, 6 liquidation plans were drafted and
implemented;
* 50 business plans and 4 investment projects were drafted;
* services were rendered for scientific support in agriculture for 9 communes;
* training services were rendered to the management of enterprises and farmers.
Also, technical assistance was provided under additional restructuring programmes, with
TACIS assistance, to 16 enterprises within three projects.
Performance of restructuring projects: For the enterprises included in the restructuring
programs the productivity of labour, sale revenues, volume of exports increased substantially,
a high level of repayments to creditors and collections to the State budget were recorded. The
enterprises subject to restructuring cooperate with 51 foreign companies in 25 countries,
resulting in the implementation of new products, advanced technologies; there is a
diversification of markets for raw materials and sale of finished products.
Within the PSD I projects, 485 local consultants were trained in management, marketing and
sales, financing, accounting, foreign languages, computer skills etc. The training was
provided through courses rendered by foreign and local consultants at ARIA, through
international programmes in Slovenia, Italy, USA, Great Britain, Japan, etc. Also,
approximately 1,300 managers and specialists were trained in the enterprises subject to
restructuring under the project, by local consultants and foreign experts.
ARIA rendered consultancy services to enterprises under a bankruptcy procedure, by means
of reorganisation and liquidation: 6 enterprises liquidated and I enterprise reorganised. Based
on the re-sizing of enterprises subject to reorganisation, 7 industrial parks were established.
"Alfa" park includes 74 residents, where 1,940 new workplaces were created. "Codru" SA -
14 enterprises and 210 workplaces; "Nistru" SA- 10 enterprises and 410 workplaces,
"Steaua" SA - 5 enterprises and 1,200 workplaces; "Zorile Moldovei" GA - 34 farms and
1,500 workplaces. As a result of implementing the restructuring and reorganisation processes
at enterprises with ARIA's technical support, more than 480 new and rented enterprises were
established, generating approximately 10,800 new workplaces. Including, at the Pilot Project
enterprises 55 new and rented enterprises were established, with 1,920 jobs, "TACIS- I"
project - 14 enterprises with 200 workplaces , "TACIS-2" project - 23 enterprises with 1,280
workplaces, PSD I- 380 enterprises with 9,000 workplaces.
It is worth mentioning that the objectives of this component were fully implemented,
furthermore, ARIA provided assistance in the sale of companies and in attracting foreign
investors (4 companies), in privatising enterprises (5 companies), in drafting normative acts
(37 acts) and developing and implementing other additional projects such as: Management
Information Systems, "20-keys" Continuous Improvement System, National Quality
Standards ISO 9000, National Accounting Standards, etc.
Minister                                         Zinaida Grecianii
-22-



(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments received.
10. Additional Information
-23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
,ndicatorlMatrix                    i Pr, ScMdii jast PSR|                ActualULatest tstimate
ENTERPRISE STENGTHENING
Restructured enterprises. 63
No. of enterprises created and restructured  50 privatzed agencies restructured or  New enterprises assisted: 480
liquidated
No. of jobs created                    NS                                    10,800
Amount of foreign Investment attracted  NS                                   US$40 million
ARIA Performance
-No. of consultants trained In enterprise  200                               485
diagnostics and restructuring techniques
-No. of managers trained               300                                   1300
-Supportive legislation generated      New Financial Institubons Law         37 legislative acts supporbng enterprise
development
-Increased productivity of ARIA supported  NS                                Increases of 16 percent compared to a
firmns                                                                       decline of 13 percent by non-ARIA supported
firms
-Number of enterprises assisted        NS                                    Assisted in restructuring 93
Express diagnostic analysis 81
Rural projects: 9
Communes management training 120
Assistance to SMEs including those from 7
Industrial parks: 480
FINANCIAL SECTOR STRENGTHENING
Automaton of Natonal Bank of Moldova   Not fully automated                   Completed automated by 1998
(NBM)
Automafion of the tax system           Not fully automted                    Completed automated by 1998
Longer terms of finandng              Terms of a year or less                An average term of about 2.5 years
Lower interest rates                   18-30 perecent, averaging 20 percent  An average of 13 percent among the
participating banks
NS = Not Specified at project appraisal.
Souce: Bank staff estimates and ARIA
Output Indicators:
i,h,,},e'at0IMaprlxt      ,         .eoJed l,~ last',PSR,, ,    ;.+t     ^cgtual/LatestEstimate  r
Not applicable. The project had a Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) instead of a Project
Appraisal Document and therefore did not
produce a matrbix with outputs
End of project
-24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro-ect Cost by Component (in USS million equivalent)
r-l* - P e .  Appraisal   Actual/Latest . - Percentageof;
* Estimate      Estimate    . Appraisal--
Project Cost By Component    -        US$ million  . US$ milion - _-_-_.
Enterprise Sector Strengthening
1. Enterprise Assistance Program (EAP)               7.40           10.25           140
2. MOF/Tax Administration                             1.92           2.31            120
Financial Sector Strengthening
1. Credit Line                                      31.95           23.63            74
2. Payments/Clearing System                          0.68            0.00              0
3. National Bank Automation                          2.50            0.62             24
4. Technical assistance to the Financial Sector      4.55            1.62             35
Total Baseline Cost                                 49.00           38.43
Total Project Costs             49.00          38.43
Total Financing Required             49.00           38.43
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
=    . Cat K s       ,- ICB  -; iProcurwmnt Method   .       .8i 
1v 'Expefldt*urek Ca  17ICB'              NC            ter   U-    ,N.B..     -Total C~ost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     4.15          0.00          0.00         0.95         5.10
(4.15)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.15)
3. Services                  2.50          0.00         28.35         13.05        43.90
(2.50)       (0.00)        (28.35)      (0.00)       (30.85)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      6.65          0.00         28.35        14.00        49.00
(6.65)       (0.00)        (28.35)      (0.00)       (35.00)
Source: Staff Appraisal Report, Table 4.Note: Goods consist mainly of computers for the Ministry of
Finance tax system and the National Bank of Moldova. Services consist of the credit line to participating
banks, and consultant/training for the enterprise restructuring unit and the technical assistance to the
financial sector. The "other" arrangement for the credit line is local commercial practice and for services,
the Bank's Guidelines on the use of consultants (1981)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
L                Li:      :..    .ProJ  u - f -  Meth urem e  Mth6d
-25-



Expenditure Caiegory       ICB            NCB          Other2       N..F        Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                       2.93          0.00          0.00          0.00          2.93
(2.93)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.93)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          29.13         6.37         35.50
(0.00)        (0.00)       (29.13)        (0.00)       (29.13)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       2.93           0.00         29.13         6.37          38.43
______________________        (2.93)        (0.00)        (29.13)       (0.00)       (32.06)
Source: Bank Loan Department datat for Bank-financed components Project Implementation Unit data for
Government and private sector-financed components.
Note: The ICR latest estimate is based on the same procurement arrangements as in the SAR.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
- - x, .evPercentage f Apraisal
i . Compr,nent  .      - e . - . Appradsal Estimate  -.  Actual/Latest Estimate
].ank     .  t.     CP.        a       Govt.     CoF.    Bank v aGovL1 (CoP.
Enterprise Sector
Strengthening
1. Enterprise Assistance  3.90    0.50      3.00     5.50      0.75      4 00    141.0  150.0  133.3
Program (EAP)
2. MOF/Tax              1.92      0.00      0.00     2.31      0.00      0.00    120.3   0.0    0.0
Administration
Financial Sector
Strengthening
1. Credit Line          26.95     5.00     0.00      23.63     0.00      0.00    87.7    0.0    0.0
2. Payments/Clearing    0.68      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
System
3. National Bank         1.55     0.95      0.00     0.62      0.00      0.00    40.0    0.0    0.0
Automation
4. TA, Financial Sector  0.00     0.55      4.00     0.00                1.62     0.0    0.0   40.5
Total Project Costs     35.00     7.00      7.00     32.06     0.75      5.62    91.6   10.7   80.3
Source: Bank Loan Departmnent data for Bank-financed components and Project Implementation Unit for
non-Bank financing. The column marked "Govt." also includes private sector funding. The total amount of
USO.75 million in that column is an estimate consisting of US$.27 million from the Government and the
remaining US$ .48 million from the private sector.
-26-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis                Financial Analysis
Appraisal   Latest Estimates  Appraisal     Latest Estimates
Benefits        NA              NA               NA              NA
Costs           NA              NA               NA              NA
Net Benefits    NA              NA               NA              NA
IRR/NPV         NA              NA               NA              NA
NA = not applicable
The Staff Appraisal Report for the project did not calculate an economic rate of return (ERR) or a
financial rate of return for the project.
Qualitative Benefits                   Indicators
Strengthened supply response to reform  Assistance in the creation of 480 new
through support for SME development and  enterprises, restructure restructuring of 63
turnaround of troubled enterprises     enterprises, and attraction of about US$40
million in foreign investment.
Strengthening of the financial infrastructure  Completion of fully automated systems
though up grading the payments system and  during 1998-2002.
automation of Tax Administration and the
NBM
Improved quality of the banking system by  Participating banks had to meet more stringent
strengthening of the regulatory and    rudential regulations which has helped to
supervisory operating environment     improve the overall portfolio. Also they
received assistance in portfolio management
and risk assessment which should help them
improve the diversity of their portfolio and
rovide an incentive to expand the terms of
lending with their own resources.
urthermore, the loans financed under PSD I
ad a 98 percent repayment rate.
Enabling of private sector enterprises to  Enterprises were able to obtain medium term
obtain financing at competitive rates for  loan interest rates averaging 15 percent
investrnents                           compared to terms of a year or less and
interest rates averaging 20 percent a year.
-27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/93                        6    IMission Leader
I Financial Sector Development
Specialists
3 Private Sector Development
Specialists
I Consultant
6/94                         9    1 Division Chief
I Mission Leader
I Division Chief
I Financial Sector Specialist
I Private Sector Specialist
2 Consultants
2 Legal Staff
2/95                         9    1 Senior Enterprise Reform
Specialist (Mission Leader)
2 Financial Specialists
4 Private Sector Develpment
Specialists
I Small Business Specialist
I Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
5/95                         9    1 Senior Enterprise Reform
Specialist
I Small Business Specialist
2 Private Sector
Development Specialists
3 Private Sector
Development Specialists
I Economist
I Unspecifid Staff
Supervision
10/96                        1   Task Manager                        HS            HS
01/97                        2    TASK MANAGER (1);                  HS            HS
CONSULTANT (1)
08/97                         1   Sr. Enterprise Reform Specialist   HS            HS
01-02/98                     2    SR.FIN. SPEC. (1);                 HS            HS
Sector Leader (1)
06/98                             Unspecified Specialty
11/98                        2   Senior Financial Specialist (1)     S             S
Senior Financial Specialist (1)
01/99                         1   Consulting Services Specialist
06/99                        4    Senior Financial Specialist (1)
Senior Financial Specialist (1)
Risk Management Training
-28 -



Specialist (1)
Payment Systems Specialist (I)
11/99                        I   Risk Management Specialist
04/00                         I   Senior Financial Specialist        S              S
07/00                         1   Senior Financial Specialist        S              S
12/00                        3   Senior Financial Specialist (1)     S             S
Senior Financial Specialist (1)
Unspecified Specialty (1)
05/01                         3   Senior Financial Specialist (1)    S              S
Consultant (1)
Project Officer (1)
02/02                        3    Private Sector Development         S              S
Specialist (1)
Senior Financial Specialist (1)
Sector Manager (1)
06/02                         1   Private Sector Development         S              S
Specialist (Project Team Leader)
ICR
06/02                        2    Private Sect. Dev. Specialist      S              S
(Project Team Leader) (1)
Private Sector Dev.
Specialist (1)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                NA                         786.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                     NA                           NA
Supervision                               NA                         343.5
ICR                                       NA                          31.0
Total                                     NA                        1,161.3
-29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substntial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                    O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Sector Policies                   OH *SUOM       ON O NA
O Physical                          OH   OSUOM O N * NA
O Financial                         O H OSUOM O N O NA
OL Instihtutional Development       0 H 0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmnental                    O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction          O H OSUOM O N * NA
Ol Gender                     OH   OSUOM     ON   *NA
L Other (Please specify)      OH OSUOM ON * NA
OI Private sector development       0 H 0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L] Public sector management         0 H O SUO M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)            0 H OSUOM O N * NA
-30-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower, Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
Oi Lending                                        OHS*S        OU   OHU
O Supervision                                     OHS OS       OU    O HU
Oi Overall                                        OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                          Rating
O Preparation                                     OHS OS       OU    O HU
Li Government implementation performance          O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agencyperformance                OHS Os       OU    O HU
El Overall                                        OHS OS       OU    O HU-
-31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project Preparation and Appraisal Reports
Moldova: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SME) Survey Back-to-Office Report, August 11, 1994
Moldova: Proposed Private Sector Development Project: Back-to-Office Report of Preparation Mission,
February 27, 1995.
Moldova: Proposed Private Sector Development (PSD 1) Project, Back-to-Office Report, Pre-Appraisal
Mission, May 31, 1995.
Moldova: Seminar on Bankruptcy-Related Legal Issues, Back-to-Office Report, October 12, 1995.
Republic of Moldova: Staff Appraisal Report - First Private Sector Development Project, Report No.
14555-MD, November 17, 1995.
Project Supervision Reports
Moldova: Private Sector Development Projects (PSD I/II) - Back-to-Office Report, February 20, 1997
Moldova: PSD I Supervision Mission Findings: Back-to-Office Report
Moldova: Second Private Sector Development Project and First Private Sector Development Project
Back-to-Office Report, June 16, 1998.
Moldova: First and Second Private Sector Development Project Supervision Mission - Back-to-Office
Report, January 20, 1999.
Moldova: Banking Sector Review Mission and Follow-up on the First and Second Private Sector
Development Project, Back-to-Office Report,
February 11, 1999.
Moldova: Supervision of the First and Second Private Sector Development Project, Back-to-Office Report,
November 18, 1999.
Moldova: First Private Sector Development Project and Private Sector Review, Supervision Mission
Back-to-Office Report, April 18, 2000.
Moldova: Mid-Term Review of the First Private Sector Development Project, Back-to-Office Report, April
20, 2000.
Moldova: Private Sector Development Project, Back-to-Office Report on Recent Discussions, August 7,
2000.
Moldova: First Private Sector Development Project Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, January
3, 2001.
Moldova: Evaluation of the Crisis Prevention Program Funded under NSA; Follow-up on PSD Sector
Strategy; Follow-Upon Recent PSD I and PSD II
Supervision Missions, July 9, 2001.
Moldova: First Private Sector Development Project Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report, June 12,
2001.
Project Status Reports
Moldova: Project Status Report, June 5, 1996.
Moldova: Project Status Report, January 1, 1997.
Moldova: Project Status Report, February 19, 1997.
Moldova: Project Status Report, June 13, 1997.
Moldova: Project Status Report, January 23, 1998.
Moldova: Project Status Report, June 23, 1998.
Moldova: Project Status Report, January 15, 1999.
- 32-



Moldova: Project Status Report, October 6, 1999.
Moldova: Project Status Report, November 22, 1999.
Moldova: Project Status Report, April 20, 2000.
Moldova: Project Status Report, December 29, 2000.
Moldova: Project Status Report, February 24, 2000.
Moldova: Project Status Report, December 12, 2001.
Moldova: Project Status Report, December 13, 2001.
Other Reports
Moldova: Beyond Privatization, Draft Technical Note, May 28, 1997.
David Ellernan and Vladimir Kreacic, Transforming the Old into a Foundation for the New: Lessons of
the Moldova ARIA Pro
Project, World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 2866, July 2002.
-33 -









Repore No.:        25099
Type:    ICR



