Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBERS 3977-0 MD 
3977-1 MD
Loan Agreement
(First Private Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 17, 1996
LOAN NUMBERS 3977-0 MD 
3977-1 MD
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank,” dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a Private Enterprise to which a Participating 
Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-Loan;
(b)
“CLRM” means the Credit Line Regulation Manual which sets out the 
procedures for implementation of Part A of the Project including, inter alia, a 
chapter regulating procedures for environmental assessment of the Sub-projects being 
appraised, and which is referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(c)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” mean the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany;
(d)
“DEM Loan Tranche” means the amount in Deutsche Marks provided for in 
Section 2.01 of this Agreement;
(e)
“Enterprise Assistance Agency” or “EAA” means the Enterprise Assistance 
Agency, established as a non-profit organization pursuant to Resolution No. 426 of the 
Borrower, dated June 21, 1995 and registered in the Borrower’s Enterprise Register on 
June 21, 1995;
(f)
“Enterprise Restructuring Law” means Decree No. 306 of the Government of 
the Borrower entitled “Decree on Urgent Measures For Improvement of Financial and 
Economic Condition and Restructuring of Industrial Enterprises”, issued on May 15, 
1995, or any law or regulation issued under, or as an amendment or successor to, the 
said Decree No. 306;
(g)
“Fiscal Agency Agreement” and “Fiscal Agent” mean, respectively, the 
agreement entered into by the Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, and NBM, 
pursuant to which NBM shall act as a fiscal agent of the Borrower for the purposes of 
carrying out Part A of the Project, and NBM, acting as the fiscal agent of the 
Borrower in accordance with the terms of the Fiscal Agency Agreement;
(h)
“Funds Transfer Agreement” means the agreement entered into by the 
Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, and EAA as specified in paragraph 5 (a) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement for the purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project;
(i)
“Law On Financial Institutions” means the Borrower’s law governing 
financial institutions, adopted by the Borrower’s Parliament on July 21, 1995;
(j)
“Lei” means the currency of the Borrower;
(k)
“Loan Tranche” means any of the USD Loan Tranche or the DEM Loan Tranche;
(l)
“National Bank of Moldova” or “NBM” means the Central Bank of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Borrower’s “Law Establishing the 
National Bank of the Republic of  Moldova”, dated June 11, 1991, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
(m)
“National Bank Law” means the Borrower’s law governing the operation of 
the NBM, which came into effect on October 12, 1995;
(n)
“NBM Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and NBM as specified in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, for 
the purposes of carrying out Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project;
(o)
“Participating Financial Intermediaries” or “PFIs” means the banks and 
other financial institutions established and operating according to the applicable 
rules of the Borrower and approved by the Bank for participation in the Project.  
“PFI” means a single participating financial intermediary;
(p)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance by Government Decree No. 799, dated December 5, 1995, 
and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(q)
“Private Enterprise” means a commercial entity registered according to 
Page  3
the applicable rules and regulations of the Borrower, in which more than 50% of the 
proprietary interest is held by persons or companies other than the Borrower, the 
Borrower’s local authorities or any subdivision thereto, or entities controlled by the 
Borrower;
(r)
“Selected PFI” means a PFI approved by the Bank for participation in Part 
A.2 (ii) of the Project;
(s)
“SME” or “Small and Medium Scale Enterprise” means a Private Enterprise 
employing up to 200 persons;
(t)
“SME Sub-loan” means a Sub-loan of $100,000 equivalent or less made by a 
Selected PFI to an SME Beneficiary;
(u)
“Special Account” means any of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement; and “Dollar Special Account” and “DEM Special Account” mean the 
Special Accounts to be maintained in Dollars and DEM, respectively;
(v)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or to be made by a Participating Financial 
Intermediary, financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan, to a 
Beneficiary for a Sub-project and includes SME Sub-loan; 
(w)
“Sub-project” means a specific project to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary, utilizing, in whole or in part, the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(x)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” and “Subsidiary Loan” mean, respectively, any 
agreement entered into between NBM, acting as the Fiscal Agent of the Borrower in 
accordance with the terms of the Fiscal Agency Agreement, and a Participating 
Financial Intermediary pursuant to Section 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and 
any loan and grant made pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(y)
“Technical Unit” means the Technical Unit established and maintained 
within the National Bank of Moldova as specified in paragraph 2 (d) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;
(z)
“TU Grant Agreement” means an agreement entered into by the Borrower, 
through its Ministry of Finance, and NBM as specified in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement for the purposes of carrying out Part A.3 of the Project; and
(aa)
“USD Loan Tranche” means the amount in Dollars provided for in Section 
2.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, the following amounts:
(a)
an amount equal to twenty-five million Dollars ($25,000,000); and
(b)
an amount equal to fourteen million Deutsche Marks (DEM 14,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
the currency of each Loan Tranche (i.e., in Dollars and Deutsche Marks) a special 
deposit account, each in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Accounts shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2000 or such later date as the 
Page  4
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of:
(i)
the USD Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to USD LIBOR Base Rate, plus 
USD LIBOR Total 
Spread; and
(ii)
the DEM Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to DEM LIBOR Base Rate plus 
DEM LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to but not including the first Interest Payment 
Date and thereafter 
the period from and including any Interest 
Payment Date to but not including 
the next Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“USD LIBOR Base Rate” means for each Interest Period the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in  the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value 
the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“USD LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one 
half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the USD Loan Tranche, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(v)
“DEM LIBOR Base Rate” means for each Interest Period the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-months deposits in Deutsche 
Marks for value the first day 
of such Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum.
(vi)
“DEM LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one 
half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the DEM Loan Tranche; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of USD LIBOR Base Rate, USD LIBOR 
Total Spread, DEM LIBOR Base Rate and DEM LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, 
promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
Page  5
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) 
months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on 
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to 
the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, banking, accounting and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following event is specified, namely that the Law on Financial Institutions, the 
National Bank Law or the Enterprise Restructuring Law shall have been amended, 
abrogated, repealed or otherwise modified so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to achieve the objectives of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Fiscal Agency Agreement satisfactory to the Bank has been duly 
executed on behalf of the parties thereto; 
(b)
at least two Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to the Bank have 
been duly executed on behalf of the parties thereto;
(c)
the Funds Transfer Agreement satisfactory to the Bank has been duly 
executed on behalf of the parties thereto; 
(d)
the TU Grant Agreement satisfactory to the Bank has been duly executed on 
behalf of the parties thereto; 
(e)
the CLRM, satisfactory to the Bank, has been finalized and adopted; and
(f)
the Law on Financial Institutions has come into force.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
Page  7
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that each of the Fiscal Agency 
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the Funds Transfer Agreement and the TU 
Grant Agreement referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement, respectively, has been duly authorized or ratified by the respective 
parties thereto and is legally binding upon the respective parties thereto in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
277005 Chisinau
Cosmonaut Street, 7
Republic of Moldova
Telex:
(3732) 228610
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Nicholay Tau
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
(Expressed in
% of Expenditures
Category
   Dollar)           Deutsche Mark)
  to be Financed
(1)
Goods under
 
  17,450,000
  14,000,000
100% of foreign
Part A.1 of the
expenditures, 100% 
Project   
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(2)
Goods under
   1,550,000
100% of foreign
Part B.1 of the
expenditures, 100% 
Project
of local expendit-
ures (ex-factory 
cost) and 80% 
of
local expenditures
for other items 
procured 
locally
(3)
Goods under 
     680,000
100% of foreign
Part B.2 of the
expenditures, 100% 
Project
of local expendit-
ures (ex-factory 
cost) and 80% 
of
local expenditures
for other items 
procured 
locally
 (4)
Goods under
          1,920,000
100% of foreign
Part B.3 of the
expenditures, 100% 
Project
of local expendit-
ures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(5)
Consultants’
   3,400,000
100%
services under Parts
A.2, A.3 and C of
the Project
   _________
__________
   TOTAL
  25,000,000
14,000,000
  ==========
==========
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$3,400,000, may be made in respect of Categories 2, 3 and 4 on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1995;
(b)
expenditures under Category (2) unless the Bank shall have: (i) received 
from the NBM a detailed financial plan for automation of the NBM, acceptable to the 
Bank; and (ii) communicated to the Borrower its acceptance of evidence furnished by 
the Borrower that the NBM Sub-loan Agreement acceptable to the Bank has been duly 
executed, and is legally binding upon, the parties thereto in accordance with its 
terms; 
(c)
expenditures under Category (3) unless the Bank shall have: (i) received 
from the NBM a detailed financial plan for the upgrading of the clearing and 
settlement system of the NBM; and (ii) communicated to the Borrower its acceptance of 
evidence furnished by the Borrower that the NBM Sub-loan Agreement acceptable to the 
Bank has been duly executed, and is legally binding upon, the parties thereto in 
accordance with its terms; and
(d)
expenditures under Category (4) unless the Bank shall have received from 
the Borrower a detailed financial plan for the automation of the Tax Administration 
Division within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods under 
Part A.1 of the Project not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent; (ii) goods under Parts 
B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the Project not exceeding $150,000; and (iii) consultants’ 
services not exceeding $100,000 for consulting firms and $50,000 for individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support and help accelerate the Borrower's 
implementation of reforms in the Borrower's enterprise and financial sectors in the 
post-mass-privatization phase by:  (a) accelerating the emergence and growth of Small 
and Medium-Scale Enterprises; (b) streamlining larger enterprises and releasing assets 
into the market; and (c) increasing the efficiency of resource mobilization and credit 
allocation through the provision of assistance to restructure the banking system, 
strengthening the infrastructure for banking activity, and providing institutional 
development support for solvent banks.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Credit Line
1.
Provision of Sub-loans by Participating Financial Intermediaries to 
Beneficiaries.
Page  10
2.
Provision of technical assistance to (i) Participating Financial Intermediaries 
to increase their intermediation efficiency, and (ii) Selected Participating Financial 
Intermediaries in setting up credit lines for SMEs.
3.
Provision of technical assistance for the Technical Unit.
Part B: Automation of NBM and the Borrower’s Tax Administration
1.
Provision of the necessary equipment for automation of NBM.
2.
Provision of the necessary hardware and software for upgrading the clearing and 
settlement system of  NBM.
3.
Provision of the necessary equipment for automation of the Tax Administration 
Division within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.
Part C:
Enterprise Sector Strengthening
Provision of technical assistance to enterprises participating in an 
out-of-court   voluntary restructuring program.
*   *   *
 The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
       (Expressed in DEMs)**
July 15, 2001
525,000
325,000 
January 15, 2002
540,000
335,000 
July 15, 2002
560,000
340,000 
January 15, 2003
575,000
350,000 
July 15, 2003
595,000
360,000 
January 15, 2004
610,000
365,000 
July 15, 2004
630,000
375,000 
January 15, 2005
645,000
385,000 
July 15, 2005
665,000
395,000 
January 15, 2006
685,000
400,000 
July 15, 2006
705,000
410,000 
January 15, 2007
730,000
420,000 
July 15, 2007
750,000
430,000 
January 15, 2008
770,000
440,000 
July 15, 2008
795,000
450,000 
January 15, 2009
820,000
465,000 
July 15, 2009
845,000
475,000 
January 15, 2010
870,000
485,000 
July 15, 2010
895,000
495,000 
January 15, 2011
920,000
510,000 
July 15, 2011
950,000
520,000 
January 15, 2012
975,000
530,000 
July 15, 2012
     1,005,000
545,000 
January 15, 2013
     1,035,000
560,000 
July 15, 2013
     1,065,000
570,000
January 15, 2014
     1,100,000
585,000 
July 15, 2014
     1,130,000
600,000 
January 15, 2015
     1,165,000
610,000 
July 15, 2015
     1,200,000
625,000 
January 15, 2016
     1,245,000
645,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
Page  11
**
The figures in this column represent the amount in DEMs to be repaid, except as 
provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Established Commercial Practice
Goods under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or 
less per contract,  may be procured in accordance with normal commercial practices, 
acceptable to the Bank, at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other 
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods 
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor.
2.
Direct Contracting
Goods under Part A of the Project which: (i) should be procured as an extension 
of an existing contract; (ii) must be purchased from the original supplier to be 
compatible with existing equipment; (iii) are of a proprietary nature; or (iv) must be 
procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a performance guarantee, may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of this Schedule; (ii) the first contract for goods to be 
financed by each PFI in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Schedule; 
and (iii) each contract for goods awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Part C.2 of this Schedule, respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  Contracts shall be based on the standard forms of 
contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto 
as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be 
used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement:
1.
During the execution of the Project the Borrower shall maintain the PIU with 
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and with staff whose 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
(i)
relend to PFIs an amount equivalent to the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from 
time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; and 
(ii)
extend to PFIs and Selected PFIs on a grant basis a portion of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (5) of the 
table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
to be entered into between the Borrower, 
acting through NBM as its Fiscal 
Agent, and each such PFI, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank 
including, without 
limitation, those set forth in Section I of the Annex to 
this 
Schedule;
(b)
extend to NBM on a grant basis an amount equivalent to a portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 5 of the table set forth 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a TU Grant Agreement under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
(i)
exercise its rights under the Fiscal Agency Agreement, Subsidiary 
Loan 
Agreements and the TU Grant Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the 
interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to achieve 
the purposes of the 
Project; 
(ii)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, suspend and subsequently 
terminate, 
if suspension extends beyond 120 days, any Subsidiary Loan 
Page  13
Agreement upon 
occurrence of events set forth in Sections 
I.B.3 of the Annex to Schedule 5 to 
the Loan Agreement; and, 
(iii)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive 
the Fiscal Agency Agreement, any Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements or the TU Grant 
Agreement or any respective provision 
thereof;
(d)
cause NBM to: (i) maintain, in accordance with the terms of the Fiscal 
Agency Agreement, TU with staff, functions, responsibilities and technical assistance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) take all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TU to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the TU Grant Agreement and the Fiscal 
Agency Agreement all the obligations of TU therein set forth, and not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
(e)
coordinate the overall execution of Part A of the Project and monitor the 
carrying out by the Participating Financial Intermediaries of their respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank;
(f)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable 
the Participating Financial Intermediaries to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations of the 
Participating Financial Intermediaries therein set forth, and not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(g)
by December 31, 1997, contribute in Lei an amount equivalent to 
$5,000,000  to be made available by NBM, as the Borrower’s Fiscal Agent, to PFIs for 
on-lending to Private Enterprises in accordance with criteria set out in Section II of 
the Annex to Schedule 5.
3.
For the purpose of carrying out Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
relend to NBM the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to Categories (2) and (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement under the NBM Sub-loan Agreement; and
(b)
exercise its rights under the NBM Sub-loan Agreement in such a manner as 
to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to achieve the purposes of 
the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the said Agreement or any provision thereof.
4.
The Borrower shall carry out Part B.3 of the Project through the Tax 
Administration Division within the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.
5.
For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
extend to the EAA on a grant basis a portion of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement under the Funds Transfer Agreement;
(b)
exercise its rights under the Funds Transfer Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to achieve the purposes of 
the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the said agreement or any provision thereof; and
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the EAA 
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Funds Transfer Agreement all the 
obligations of the EAA therein set forth, and not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
Section I.
Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Page  14
The following are the principal terms and conditions of Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements which shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
A.
Terms
1.
Principal Amount
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Loan to a 
Participating Financial Intermediary under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
shall be: (a) denominated in Dollars or Deutsche Marks; and (b) the equivalent of the 
aggregate outstanding amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made out of the 
proceeds thereof, provided, however, that in respect of PFIs referred to in Section 
I.B.1(ii) of this Annex to Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the maximum amount 
available under the Subsidiary Loan during the period of 12 months following the 
conclusion of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or until the particular PFI achieves full 
compliance with criteria referred to in Section I.B.1(i) of this Annex to Schedule 5 
to the Loan Agreement, shall be limited to $3,000,000.
2.
Interest Rate
The Subsidiary Loan shall be charged, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, an interest rate, which shall represent the 
prevailing interest rate under the Bank Loan as determined in accordance with Section 
2.05 of this Loan Agreement plus a market based spread set by the Borrower from time 
to time, and agreed to by the Bank, to: (i) compensate the Borrower for the 
administrative costs associated with Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) compensate the 
Borrower for the credit risk associated with Part A.1 of the Project; and (iii) 
compensate NBM for administrative costs associated with acting as the Fiscal Agent.
3.
Maturity
The Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of up to twelve years, 
determined in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
B.
Eligibility, Conditions and Remedies
1.
Eligibility Criteria
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a bank or other financial 
institution, duly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, which, as 
the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed, has a sound 
financial structure and either (i) is in compliance with criteria agreed with the Bank 
or (ii) has adopted and undertaken to carry out a program satisfactory to the Bank, 
designed to achieve its compliance with the said criteria within twelve months of its 
concluding the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or other period agreed with the Bank.
2.
Conditions
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which each respective Participating Financial Intermediary shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its activities under Part A.1 (and A.2, where applicable)  of 
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate 
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate 
numbers and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set forth 
in Section II of this Annex; (ii) exercise its rights in relation to each such 
Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank, comply with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project; (iii) not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any provision 
thereof, without prior approval of the TU and the Bank; and (iv) appraise Sub-projects 
and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by Beneficiaries of 
Page  15
Sub-projects, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the TU and the Bank;
(c)
(i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to, the Bank 
and the TU, as may be reasonably requested by the Bank and/or the TU, with regard to 
the progress of its activities under the Project and the performance of its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (ii) promptly inform 
the TU of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress 
of its activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(d)
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; (ii) have its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) 
furnish to the TU as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, certified copies of said financial statements and 
accounts for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors in 
such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to 
the Bank and the TU such other information concerning said records, accounts and 
financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank or the TU shall from 
time to time reasonably request; and
(e)
ensure that appraisal of Sub-projects is undertaken in accordance with 
the applicable environmental laws and standards of the Borrower and the guidelines for 
environmental assessment, included in CLRM and agreed with the Bank.
3.
Remedies
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall also provide that the right of 
the Participating Financial Intermediary to commit further Sub-loans shall be:
(a)
suspended upon its failure to: (i) continuously comply with the 
eligibility criteria referred to in Section I.B.1 of this Annex to Schedule 5, (ii) 
meet any of the conditions set forth in Section I.B.2 of the said Annex, or (iii) 
perform any of its obligations under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(b)
terminated if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to paragraph 
(a) hereof for a continuing period of 120 days.
C.
Grants Available in Conjunction with Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall also provide that if, at any 
time, after the conclusion of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, a Participating Financial 
Intermediary (i) receives technical assistance on a grant basis to increase its 
intermediation efficiency or (ii) after qualifying as a Selected PFI by meeting the 
additional criteria for Selected PFIs agreed with the Bank, receives technical 
assistance on a grant basis for setting up credit lines for SMEs, the obligations of 
the PFI with respect to each of these grants shall be those set forth in Sections 
I.B.2(a), (c) and (d) of this Annex.
Section II.
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-loans and Eligibility Criteria:
The provisions of this Section shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 2 (b) 
(i) of Section I.B of this Annex to Schedule 5.
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall: (a) be denominated in Dollars or Deutsche Marks 
and (b) be for a minimum amount of $30,000 equivalent for all Sub-loans except SME 
Sub-loans, with a maximum amount of all Sub-loans outstanding at any time to a 
particular Beneficiary not exceeding $2,500,000 equivalent.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at the prevailing interest rate under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement as determined in accordance with Section I.A.2 of this Annex 
to Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement plus a spread determined by the PFI on the basis 
of market conditions; and (b) made for (i) a minimum period of one year and a maximum 
Page  16
period of five years for capital investments and (ii) a minimum period of 9 months and 
a maximum period of 18 months for permanent working capital.
3.
No expenditures for goods required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan:
(a)
unless the Sub-loan for such Sub-project:
(i)
shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall 
have been 
made not earlier than 120 days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have 
received the application and information 
required under paragraph 4 (a) of 
this Section in respect of 
such Sub-loan; or 
(ii)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall be a free-limit Sub-loan 
for which the 
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account 
and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than 120 days 
prior to the date on which the 
Bank shall have received the request and 
information required under paragraph 
4 (b) below in respect of such 
free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this 
Agreement, a free-limit 
Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan made by a PFI for a 
Sub-project 
in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, which 
shall not exceed $600,000, to be determined by the Bank for such PFI upon its 
achieving standards of appraisal and supervi\1fsion of Sub-projects satisfactory 
to the Bank; or
(b)
to finance any investment in military or tobacco industries.
4.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval, the PFI shall 
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include (i) a description of the Beneficiary; (ii) the appraisal of the Sub-project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; (iii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan; and 
(iv) any such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(b)
Each request by a PFI for Sub-loan authorization in respect of a 
free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Beneficiary and 
the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, 
including the schedule of amortization therefore; and
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before July 31, 1999.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis 
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be:
(a)
technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially 
viable; and
(b)
in compliance with all environmental laws and standards of the Borrower 
and the guidelines for environmental assessment, agreed with the Bank.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI making the Sub-loan shall 
obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its 
interest and those of the Borrower and the Bank, including:
(a)
the right to require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economical, 
financial, environmental and commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and 
to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for 
the purpose;
(b)
the right to require that the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Loan 
Page  17
Agreement, and use such goods exclusive\1fly in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Bank or the Borrower if the Bank or the Borrower shall so request, the goods and the 
sites, plans and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and 
any relevant records and documents;
(d)
the right to require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain 
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with 
sound business practices, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable 
in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
the right to obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Beneficia\1fry and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Sub-project; and
(f)
the right to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use 
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under its Sub-loan agreement with the Participating Financial 
Intermediary.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account 
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the following Categories set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: for the Dollar Special 
Account, (1) through (5); and for the DEM Special Account, (1);
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from  
the Loan Account and deposited in Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, equivalent to $1,000,000 for the Dollar Special Account and DEM 600,000 for 
the DEM Special Account, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 
for the Dollar Special Account and DEM 400,000 for the DEM Special Account until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000 and 
DEM 2,000,000, respectively.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into such Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of such Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into such respective 
Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
Page  18
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into such respective 
Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; or
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan Tranche allocated to the 
eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into such Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into such Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  19
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower or the Guarantor terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled" set forth at the end 
of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (f) by the date specified in Section II.4(c) of the Annex to Schedule 
5 to the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan: 
(i) have received no 
applications or requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) 
or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) 
have denied any such applications or requests, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right to submit 
such applications or approvals or to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account, as the 
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon 
the giving of 
such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be canceled."
