Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 020812
Dutch Grant Agreement
(First Private Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated December 13, 1995
TF 020812
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 13, 1995 between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Administrator 
(the Administrator) of the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the 
Minister for Development Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Minister in the financing of 
various activities undertaken in connection with implementation of reforms in the 
Recipient’s financial and enterprise sectors;
WHEREAS the Bank intends to make a loan for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions to be set forth in a Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and the Bank (the Loan Agreement) in support of the First Private 
Development Project;
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant in the 
amount of one million seven hundred and sixty thousand Dutch guilders (Dfls 
1,760,000) (the Dutch Grant) to assist the Recipient in the financing of certain 
activities required for implementation of the First Private Development Project;
WHEREAS pursuant to the General Arrangement for Administration, entered into 
between the Minister, the Bank and the International Development Association, dated 
May 24, 1995, and the Arrangement between the Minister and the Bank, dated August 17, 
1995 (the Arrangements), the Minister has appointed the Bank, and the Bank has 
agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by the Minister for the 
financing of the said activities in accordance with the provisions of the 
Arrangements and has authorized the Bank to do all such acts and things as may be 
necessary or appropriate to carry out such administration, including entering into 
Page  2
this Grant Agreement on behalf of the Minister; and
WHEREAS the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Recipient under this agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) shall be considered part 
of the bilateral development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the 
Recipient;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a)  The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the 
Dutch Grant pursuant to the Arrangements, except that in Section 
6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Dutch Grant extended to the Recipient under this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan Account", whenever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Dutch Grant Account opened by the Administrator on its 
books, in the name of the Grantee, to which the amount of the 
Dutch Grant is Loaned;
(vi)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"the term 'Project' wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Technical Assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.";
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Dutch guilders; 
Page  3
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Dutch Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such currency 
with the proceeds of such withdrawal."; and
(viii)Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date, or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Grantee and the 
Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Project, the performance by the Grantee and 
the Administrator of their respective obligations under the Dutch Grant 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Dutch Grant.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Dutch guilders" and "Dfls" mean the currency of the Netherlands;
(b)
"National Bank of Moldova" or "NBM" means the Central Bank of the 
Recipient, established and operating pursuant to Recipient’s "Law Establishing the 
National Bank of the Republic of Moldova," dated June 11, 1991, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; and
(c)
"Technical Unit" means the Technical Unit established and maintained 
within NBM for the purposes of implementing the First Private Sector Development 
Project. 
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an 
amount of one million seven hundred and sixty thousand Dutch guilders (Dfls 
1,760,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and 
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and consultants’ services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the Dutch Grant.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1997 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance and Financial Covenants
Section 3.01.  The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, banking, accounting and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Technical Assistance Project.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Technical Assistance and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the grant shall be governed by the provisions of  
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Page  4
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Technical Assistance; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.04 (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; 
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Dutch 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained until at least one year after the 
Administrator has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Dutch Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The 
Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient 
to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such 
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this 
Agreement as if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without 
any further action or formality being required on the part of any party and, from 
such date, the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party 
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall upon its signature by the parties hereto 
become effective as of the date first above written and shall continue in effect 
until the Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have 
fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
Page  5
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
277005 Chisinau
Cosmonaut Street, 7
Republic of Moldova
Telex:
(3732) 228610
For the Administrator:
International Bank  for
  Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Valeriu Chitan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Dutch Funds provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE
NETHERLANDS
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Dutch Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Page  6
Dutch Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Dutch Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
 Dutch Grant
 Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dfls Equivalent)
to  be Financed
(1) Goods
147,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expend-
itures for other items
procured locally
(2) Consultants’
    1,613,000 100%
      Services
TOTAL
    1,760,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of Dfls 44,000 may be made in respect of Category 2 on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1995.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Dutch Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for 
(i) goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (ii) consultants’ services not 
exceeding $100,00 for firms and $50,000 for individuals consultants, under such terms 
and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
Schedule 2
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Technical Assistance is to assist the Recipient in 
implementing the First Private Sector Development Project.
The Technical Assistance consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modification thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time 
to time to achieve such objective:
1.
Retention of two advisors to the Technical Unit of the National Bank of Moldova 
to assist in the start-up phase of the credit line operations.
2.
Provision of training to the staff of the Technical Unit.
3.
Financing of office equipment and computers for the Technical Unit.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Administratorin January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Page  7
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and $100,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and $100,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to the first two contracts for goods procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Parts B.1 and B.2 of this Schedule, respectively, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  Contracts shall be based on the standard forms of 
contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications 
thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank other standard forms acceptable to the 
Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to (a) 
the terms of reference for such contracts (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, 
(d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
