Doumt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Repon No. 12039
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(LAN 1999-CO)
JUNE 18, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:12039 CO    Type:  (PCR)
Title: VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJEC
Author: BARBU, ALAIN
Ext.:31710 Room:T 9102 Dept.:OEDD3
Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Operations
Country Department III
Latin America aja4 the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted disrbution and may be ued by rocpieWts only In the perfornnue of
thei official duties. Its contents may not odtrwie be dicosed without World Rank athorizato



ABLREVIATIONS
CONPES               -     Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica
CORELCA              -     Corporaci6n El6ctrica de la Costa Atl}ntica
CVC                  -     Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Valle del Cauca
DNP                        National Planning Department
EEB                  -     Empresa de Energia de BogotA
EM                   -     Empresas Publicas de Medellin
FEN                  -     Financiera Electrica Nac'onal
GTZ                  -     Deutsche Gesselachaft fur Technishe Zusammernarbeit
ICEL                 -     Ixtituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
IDB                  -     Inter-American Development Bank
IERR                 -     Internal Economic Rate of Return
IRR                  -     Internal Rate of Return
ISA                  -     Interconexi6n Electrica S.A.
JNT                  -     Junta Nacional ae Tarifas
MME                  -    Ministerio de Minas y Energia
PESENCA              -     Programa Especial de Energia para la Costa
Atl4ntica
PNR                  -     Plan Nacional de Rehabilitaci6n
SENA                 -     Servicio de Entrenamiento Nacional
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -   Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$620 (date 12/31/91)  -  US$1
FISCAL YEAR  -   CALENDAR YEAR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washkng, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Director-Geaeral
Operotiou. Evaluation
June 18, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AID TEE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion on Colombia
Villeag  Electrification Project (Loan 1999-CO)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Colombia - Village
Electrification Project (Loan 1999-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project achieved its main objective which was to supply power to
the rural populations of Colombia's underdeveloped northern coastal region.
Indeed significant cost savings enabled the project scope to be considerably
expanded, although implementation lagged much behind the original schedule.
The project was not as successful on the institutional and policy
front: the training component failed and the financial performance of the
borrower and its subsidiaries did not improve as expected. The latter resulted
primarily from the Government's inappropriate tariff and financial policies,
which affected not only the project entities but the sector as a whole.
In retrospect, it appears that the Bank was not realistic in its
assessment of the Government's commitment to tariff reform. In spite of recent
progress on this front, considerable political obstacles remain and the project's
long-term financial sustainability is considered uncertain at this point.
Overall, the project is rated satisfactory, its institutional impact
partial and its long-term sustainability uncertain.  The Project Completion
Report is thorough and informative. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This docusent has a restrfcted dfstribution and may be used by recipfents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis. be disclosed wifthout World Sank authorfzation.



FOR 0MCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
tLOAN 1999-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paite No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMARY                                                        ii
I.     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANM'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity                                             1
2.   Background                                                   1
-   Benk Lending to the Sector                              1
-   Electric Power Sector Organization                      1
-   Development of the Sector 1970-1939                     2
-   Role of the Bank                                        3
-   CORELCA'S Installations and Market                      3
3.   Identification, Preparation, and Appraisal                   4
-   Background                                              4
-   Project Issues and Decisions                            5
-   Project Objectives                                      8
-   Project Description                                     8
-   Project Design and Organization                         9
-   Project Cost Estimate and Financing                    10
-   The Village Electrification Loan Documents             11
-   Environmental Issues                                   11
4.   Project Implementation                                      12
-   Effectiveness                                          12
-   Procurement                                            12
-   The Village Electrification Component                  12
-   Training Component                                     13
-   Power Losses Study                                     14
-   Fixed Assets Revaluation Study                         15
-   Timetable and Costs                                    15
-   Financing                                              16
5.    Project Results                                            16
6.    Project Sustainability                                     17
7.   Bank Performance                                            17
8.   Borrower Performance                                        18
9.    Project Relationships                                      19
10.  Performance of Consultants                                  19
11.  Project Documentation and Data                              20
12.  Conclusions and Lessons to be Learned                       20
-   Conclusions                                            20
-   Lesson to be Learned                                   20
I This documnt has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performane
of their ofllcil duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Content - Cont.
"age No.
II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                    22
III.   STATISTICAL AND OTHER PROJECT INFORMATION                         24
1.   Related Bank Loans                                           24
2.    Project Timetable                                           24
3.    Loan Disbursement                                           25
4.    Comparison of SAR and Actual Project Costs                  26
5.   Internal Economic Rate of Return Computation                 27
6.    Use of Bank Resources                                       28
Mission Data                                                29
7.    Status of Compliance with Major Covenants                   30



PROECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(LAN 1999-CO)
1.       The Prcject Completion Report (PCR) for the Village Electrification
Project in the North Atlantic region in Colombia is presented in tthis paper.
The main component of the project --the village electrification scheme --was
completed successfully in 1991 with an internal rate of return of 23 percent
compared to 13.3 percent at appraisal, even though it took about 5 years more
than anticipated at appraisal. The training component has not been completed
and no decision has been taken so far as to its final outcome.
2.      The project was partially financed with World Bank Loan 1999-CO
(approved Kay 21, 1981). The borrower is the Corporaci6n Elictrica de la
Costa Atlintica (CORELCA), a government-owned electric power utility in charge
of generation and bulk electric transmission of electricity in the North
Atlantic region. The loan was closed on June 30, 1988, two years late. Except
for US$5.94 million which was canceled, the proceeds of the loan were 'ully
disbursed, and the last disbursement was on Narch 31, 1989.
3.      The draft of this report was discussed with the borrower and its
comments have been set forth in Part II of the PCR.
4.      The Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Division, Country Department
III of the Latin American and Caribbean Regional Office (LA31E) prepared Parts
I and III of the PCR based, among other sources, on the Issues/Decisions
Paper, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, records
of the World Bank and of the borrower and interviews with borrower's staff in
Barranquilla.



v ii -
ZEOJCTg COMPEION REPOR
COLOMIA
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
-LOAN 1999-CO)
1.      The loan for the Village Electrification Project was the tenth Bank
loan to Colombia's power sector since 1970, and the first and only loan so far
to CORELCA and the only one for rural electrification in Colombia.  It helped
to finance a project consisting of: (a) a village electrification scheme over
seven stateq in the North Atlantic region of the country; (b) a training
component; and (c) a power losses study. Later on were added to the project
scope an assets revaluation study and a power losses control component.
2.      The project was estimated at appraisal to cost the equivalent of
US$68.7 million. World Bank financing for the project amounted to US$36
million, the proceeds of which were fully disbursed, except for US$5.94
million which was canceled. CORELCA provided financing amounting to US$15.7
million, while Government only financed US$11.5 million instead of the US$13.7
million it had undertaken to furnish. The two other sources of finances were
CORELCA's subsidiaries (US$0.3 million) and the beneficiaries (US$1.1
million). Both these sources contributed far less than agreed originally.
Final cost of the project -- US$58.7 million -- was about 15 percent below
project cost estimated at appraisal.
3.      Albeit with long delays, caused mainly by problems with obtaining
legal sanction for contracts to procure goods and services for the project
because of cumbersome legal clearances, and delays in receiving the Government
contribution to the project, the village electrification scheme was
successfully implemented. The project's main objective of supporting the
Government's efforts to integrate the country's poorest and most backward
region, the North Atlantic regional rural population, into national life, was
fully achieved. In fact, due to significant savings in the procurement of
materials and equipment, CORELCA was able to expand considerably the scope of
this component. The expanded project reached 68,700 rural consumers instead
of the 33,000 foreseen at appraisal. Moreover, using the transmission and
subtransmission infrastructure built in the project, CORELCA was able to
extend electric service to another 53,000 consumers in 412 villages. Funding
for these additions came from the National Rehabilitation Plan (PMR). The
evident success of the village electrification component of the project owes
much to the flexible approach taken by the Bank staff vis-a-vis the many
difficulties encountered by CORELCA in implementing the project, particularly
in the contracting process for procurement of goods and services and in the
very complex problem of dealing with the electrificadoras. All in all, the
project successfully achieved and exceeded the physical targets established at
appraisal. The recomputed rate of return of the village electrification
scheme is 23 percent, compared to 13.3 percent calculated at appraisal.



^ iii -
4.      The training component failed, after encountering various obstacles,
and presently, no action is underway to solve the situation and complete this
component.
5.       The power lose study has been the basis for a serious drive to
control power losses, which is achieving some degree of success. Adequately
staffed and equipped power loss control units have been established in each
electrificadora and in CORELCA. ID addition, the Goverment has authorized
the application of strong measures to control power theft.
6.       Although CORELCA achieved in 1991 an 11 percent rate of return on
revalued net fixed assets, the electrificadoras had a consolidated negative
net income from operations in 1990 and only slightly positive in 1991.
Besides their poor operating resultst the electrificadoras are affected by
very large arrears from consumers that have reached the equivalent of US$86
million at end of 1991, of which governmental entities owed about half. The
electrificadoras' problem with arrears has been transferred to CORELCA which
has accounts receivable for the equivalent of US$161 million at end of 1991.
Currently, the Government has decided to take strong measures to try to
correct this situation. Whether these measures will be successful will depend
on the political will to enforce them.
7.       Lessons to be Learned.  The following lessons can be derived from the
implementation of the project:
(a)   Although there was no previous Bank experience with rural
electrification in Colombia, the implementation schedule
for projects involving rural electrification should be
based on the Bank's general experience and should adhere to
available implementation profiles, unless it can be shown
that the project can be completed in a shorter time span.
(b)   The different steps needed to obtain legal sanction for
contracts to proture goods and services for the project
should be clearly determined during project preparation, in
order to avoid ?ster problems during project
implementation. If necessary, specific actions should be
discussed during negotiations to accelerate the procurement
process.
(c)   During preparation of projects of the nature of the Village
Electrification Project, a detailed evaluation should be
made of the procedures for the collection of contributions
of beneficiaries, as well as of their legal implications.
(d)   The Bank should make use of the existing institutional
training infrastructure instead of having borrowers take on
responsibilities that lie outside their key ones.
(e)   With hindsight, the objectives set In the SAR concerning
institutional reform of the electrificadoras and
improvement of their financial position proved optimistic,
partly because of the politicized onvironment of the Region
but also in large part because the Central Government did
not fulfill its agreements under the Loan to: (a)



- iv -
authorize tariff increases as scheduled; (b) make
programed budgetary contributions to CORELCA's investment
programs and (c) carry out a program to settle arrears to
the electrificadoras for electricity sales. These risks
vere not anticipated in the President's or Staff Appraisal
Reports, and such assessmen's should be made and reflected
in those reports.
(f) The project clearly demonstrated the value of having the
Project Unit set up and adequately staffed early-in this
case it was functioning by appraisal. This contributed to
efficient implementation despite many problems that emerged
along the way; and
(g) Supervision staff should work closely with borrowers,
especially new or relatively week ones, to assist them to
anticipate and deal with lmplementation problems. In the
case under review, this approach helped in shaping the
project to changing circumstances.



PROJEC  CMPLETON REPOR
COLOMIA
VILLAG ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PART L; PROJECT REVIEW FROM BAMK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Proje¢t Identity
Project Name                   I   Village Electrification
Loan Number                     s   1999-CO
RVP Unit                       s   Latin America and the Caribbean
Department; Trade, Finance,
Industry and Energy Division
Country                        s   Colombia
Sector                         s   Energy, Electric Power
Loan Amount                     I   US$36 million
Amount Disbursed               s   US$30.06 million
Amount Canceled                 s   US$5.94 million
Year of Approval               s   PY81
Borrower                       I   CORELCA
2. Backgrand
2.01    Bank Lending to the Sector.  The World Bank has supported the
development of the power sector in Colombia since 1970 with 15 loans for over
US$1.9 billion .  The Bank's contribution represented about 40 percent of
the long-term foreign borrowing of the sector of some US$5 billion. The tenth
Bank loan to the sector since 1970, 1999-CO (May 1981; US$36 million) to the
Corporaci6n El6ctrica de la Costa Atlintica (CORELCA), helped to finance a
Village Electrification Project which is the subject of this Project
Completion Report.
2.02    Electric Power Sector Ortanization.  During the 'project
implementation, regulation of the electric power sector has been the
responsibility of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (M0E), which is charged
with formulating national policy for power generation, transmission and
distribution. Regarding investment priorities, it shares responsibilities
with the National Planning Department (DNP) and Interconexion Electrica, S.A.
(ISA), a generating and transmission utility. ISA owns and operates the
national interconnection system. Its shareholders are the main
/j The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the other multilateral source
of foreign finance for the sector, contributed another US$1.9 billion in 22
loans.



2-
government-owned electric power utilitiese1 and the two largest municipal
utilities 11. ISA is supposed to define the generation and bulk transmission
expansion program; after approval by DNP, this would bec.me the Ratioual Power
Expansion Program. But the Individual interests of ISA's shareholders were
often at odds with those of ISA itself, and prevented ISA from achieving its
originally envisaged aims. ISA's shareholders tended to introduce their
preferences at an unduly early stage in ISA's planning, at the expense of
nationally oriented considerations. This impeded a proper assessment of the
cost to the economy of the shareholders' preferences and a transparent choice
of the most advantageous solutions. These interferences, moreover, prevented
ISA charging for its supply bulk tariffs reflecting economic costs. Further,
ISA's operational rules have been deformed in such a way as to provide for the
dispatch of energy more on the basis of financial than economic criteria.
Unfortunately, these negative developments vere not prevented by the "sE,
which was often staffed mainly with personnel insufficiently versed in power
sector matters. More recently, in 1989, an Energy Board was set up, to
formulate policies, to regulate the use of energy resources, and to approve
investment plans for the various eubsectors. A committee reporting to the MNE
is supposed to monitor all the power sector utilities.  The Energy Board is
made up of the Minister of Mines and Energy, the Director of the DNP and
representatives of energy agencies. Whatever is the outcome of the Energy
Board's activities, the power sector sorely needs an organization to
coordinate the regulation functions exercised by the ME,, the DNP and to some
extent by ISA. Faced with the extremely serious financial and managerial
crisis of the power sector, the Government has lately introduced to Congress
an Electricity Law to restructure the sector and to allow for private
participation in setting up generation, transumission and distribution
utilities. Whether this Electricity Law would be approved by Congress without
major modifications appears rather doubtful given the currenc political
climate in Colombia and the pressure of regional and labor unicn interests.
2.03    Develonment of the Sector 1970 - 1989.  The past two decades have
-      been a period of rapid growth in installed power capacity and in service
coverage. Generating capacity just about quadrupled, from 2,200 MW in 1971 to
8,400 MW in 1989. Sales of electricity grew at a rate of 7.7 percent per year
during that same period, from 6,700 GWh to 24,600 GWh, while electric service
coverage increased from 1.4 million to 4.5 million subscribers. The
population with access to electricity went up by some 15 percentage points to
over 60 percent, and In rural areas from 15 to 45 percent. However, the power
sector is burdened by many shortcomings which remain unresolved, particularly
its unwieldy and cumbersome institutional structure, its poor financial
performance, inadequate and distorted electricity tariffs, and poor
management. A net result of the large power sector investment program and
poor Internal resource generation has been to make the sector one of the main
contributors to increasing public sector fiscal deficits, since it had to turn
to the Government to cover substantial cash deficits. Concurrently, large
external borrowing by the power sector increased substantially the sector's
X/ Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL), Corporacion Autonoma
Regional del Valle del Cauca (CVC), and CORELCA.
I/ Empresas Publicas de Medellin (RPM) and Empresa de Energia de Bogota
(EB).



- 3 -
foreign debt not only in absolute terms but ^1so as a share of the Country's
total public external debt, to about one third of outstanding debt. Interest
and principal payments on the power sector's foreign debt reached such a
magnitu.'i that they could not be met by internal cash generation. The
resulting financial crisis forced the Government into stopgap measures to
assist the power sector, without actually solving the basic problems affecting
the sector.
2.04.   Role of the Bank.  In broad terms the role of the Bank in supporting
Colombia's power sector went through two phases during the past two decades.
In the 1970s, the emphasis was on interconnection and on ISA's role, for which
the Bank envisaged a virtual monopoly of building and operating all major
capacity additions to the interconnected system. In the 1980s, the Bank's
emphasis shifted to distribution and village electrification and to issues
associated with individual utilities, and with sector issues being dealt with
in a somewhat indirect manner. Only lately, towards the end of the 1980s, the
critical condition of the power sector set the stage for a Power Sector
Adjustment Loan (2889-CO; 12187) and a new phase in the Bank's role, focusing
on broad sectoral issues. This loan had limited success, and the final
tranche was canceled by mutual agreement. Overall, the Bank was unrealistic
in not acknowledging that the Bank's objectives and those of the major power
utilities did not necessarily match, particularly concerning ISA's role. The
Bank's setback owes much to its difficulty in dealing with Colombia's acute
regionalism, rather than adjust its role to this strong fact, the Bank chose
to ignore the large weight it actually plays in the Government's decision
process. A more positive approach to this political fact would have beer.
certainly helpful in orienting the Bank's approach in addressing, with a
better chance of success, the difficult institutional and financial issues
facing the Colombian power sector.
2.05    CORELCA's Installations and Market.  CORELCA's market comprises the
North Atlantic region of Colombia. The region covers seven departments and
contains about 12 percent of the country's population. About 70 percent of
the estimated 6 million inhabitants live in cities and large towns. The rural
population in this region tends to live in small towns and villages,
travelling back and forth to the land they work. Ihe ports of Barranquilla,
Cartagena and Santa Marta are the nuclei of the region's industrial and
commercial activity and, consequently, about 25 percent of the population
resides here.
2.06    CORELCA is a decentralized corporation under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Mines and. Energy, which began operations in 1972. At that time,
the North Atlantic region was plagued by chronic shortages and unreliable
supply of power provided bz local utilities corresponding to the seven
departments of the region l. Responsibility for regional generation and
transmission expansion was shifted to CORELCA and, in 1975, CORELCA acquired
majority ownership of the local utilities.
2.07    Energy sales in the CORELCA system increased from 2,100 GWh in 1979
to 4,200 GWh in 1989 at an average annual growth rate of about 7.2 percent,
A/ Electrificadoras of Atlantico, Bolivar, Cesar, Cordoba, Guajira, Magdalena
and Sucre.



-4-
considerably lower than the 14.2 percent forecast at appraisal. At appraisal,
CORELCA's 220 kV trunk transmission system covered practically the entire
Borth Atlantic region while the total effective capacity (all thermal) vas 830
MW, of which 600 MW belonged directly to CORELCA. Except for the 150 MW
Thermo-Guajira power station which uses coal, practically all the other
generating facilities presently burn natural gas. By 1983, CORELCA was
integrated into the national interconnected power grid by means of a 500 kV
transmission line. This line enables substitution of fuel-based generation by
hydro-based energy fsom the Central System, as well as providing support to
meet the demand in the North Atlantic Region beyond the effective capacity of
CORELCA's system.
3. Identification. Prenaratlon and Ap2ralsal
3.01    Background.  The justification for rural electrification was one of
the main subjects examined by a rural energy planning mission which visited
Colombia in mid-1977 1t. The Bank mission confirmed the desirability of
extending electric power to villages that could be reached from existing grid
systems. The North Atlantic region was identified by the Bank early in 1978
as one of the areas where a village electrification program could be
developedil. This was followed by a formal request from CORELCA to the Bank
to consider a village electrification project in that region V,.
3.02    CORELCA had prepared a prefeasibility study and consultants' terms of
reference for feasibility and design studies, which were submitted to the Bank
in March 1978 and May 1979, respectively. Both documonts were incomplete, and
the assumptions underlying the areas to be served, the demand forecast, the
grid design and the project costs needed to be examined further. A Bank
preparation mission visited CORELCA's headquarters in Barranquilla in July
1979 to help define the project prior to the preappraisal mission. This
mission, among other matters, clarified the consultants' terms of reference
for carrying out the feasibility study. In addition, three Bank missions
visited Barranquilla in November 1979, Pebruary 1980 and June 1980, to review
progress on the preparation of the project. CORELCA had signed a contract
with a local consulting firm in early Rovember 1979, although preliminary work
had been initiated by the consultants at the beginning of October 1979. The
preliminary findings of the consultants showed that the previous village
electrification program prepared by CORELCA was only a very rough estimate.
In June 1980, the consultants prepared an intermediate report entitled
"Alcance y Presupuesto" (Scope and Budget) which showed preliminary new cost
estimates for a first stage of the Village Electrification Project. The
project as proposed in this document consisted of several sub-projects which
were included in the new cost estimate. The sub-projects were initially
selected based on cost per beneficiary; final selection to be based on an
I/ The proposal for this rural energy planing exercise was put forward by the
Bank in a letter to the DNP dated April 22t77. This letter was followed by a
formal note dated June 8/77 to DNP requesting preparatory actions for the
proposed mission.
6/ Letter from Bank Resident Mission, March 1/78.
71 Letter from CORELCA to Bank, March 2/78.



-5-
Internal rate of return (IR) ranking. Although the results of the
feasibility study were known at the time the Bank decided to appraise the
project, it was considered necessary to wait for the final conclusions of the
feasibility study to establish the definite scope of the project and the
amount of the proposed Bank loan.
3.03    Project Igsues and Decisions. In November 1980 the Bank decided to
appraise the project. The appraisal mission, which took place between
November 25 and December 15, 1980, dealt with and resolved all outstanding
Issues unmely V':
(a) Project definition
(b) Project financing
(c) CORELCA'S relationship with its subsidiaries, especially with
regard to the arrangement under which the facilities to be built
under the proposed project would be transferred to the
electrificadorao
(d) Institutional arran8ement for project execution
(e) General financial situation of CORELCA
(f) General financial situation of the electrificadoras.
3.04    The resolution of these project issues was presented in the
Issues/Decision Paper (January 22, 1981) in the following manner:
(a) Project Definition: It was decided that the project would:
(i) provide electricity to some 120 low-income rural villages
lacking these services; (ii) rehabilitate distribution systems
with serious deterioration in six villages; (iii) improve
service to 25 villages which depended upon unreliable and
high-cost diesel-electric generation by interconnecting them
with the CORELCA system; (iv) establish a training program to
strengthen the technical capability of CORELCA and the
electrificadoras; and (v) carry out a study to help minimize
heavy power losses in the electrificadoras' distribution
systemse
(b) Proiect Financinas The estimated project cost of US$68.7
million (52 percent in foreign cost) was to be financed by a
proposed Bank loan (US$38 million, which would include up to
US$2 million in local currency to finance consultant services)
and contributions from: the Goverrment (US$11.7 million),
CORELCA (US$3.5 million), the electrificadoras (US$3.5 million)
and the beneficiaries (US$12 million). The beneficiaries'
contribution would be made up of a 30 percent down payment and
deferred payment for the balance. The electrificadoras would
assume the bridge financing needed to cover these deferred
l/ Project Brief issued August 12180.



-6-
payments, amounting to US$8.4 million. The Bank's position with
respect to the cost-sharing in power projects in Colombia, had
been over the years to cover only up to the amount of foreign
exchange cost; however, by the time the project was appraised,
considerably less Bank financing was thought advisable since
cofinancing had become Increasingly available. In the case of
well-established power utilities, the approach had been to go
even further and require them to finance a share of the foreign
exchange costs from their own resources. CORELCA, on the other
hand, was a relatively new utility serving a rather low income
market, had limited funds, and the type of project under
consideration was not suitable for suppliers' credits. All in
all, it was an appropriate case for full Bank funding of the
full foreign exchange cost of the project. Funding with loan
funds of local consultants services was considered advisable to
ensure selection of qualified and experienced firms for the
supervision of the project. It was thought that quality of
supervision was a critical determinant of project success,
especially in view of the numerous subprojects spread over a
seven-department area with varying degrees of participation by
the electrificadoras in the works. In order to ensure that
bridge financing from the electrificadoras to cover the deferred
contributions of the beneficiaries would be available, it was
agreed that prior to negotiations, the Bank would receive
confirmation of this bridge financing, together with CORELCA's
proposal for determining the amount of beneficiaries'
contributions based on income level. Tnis proposal was to take
due consideration of the Government's social welfare policy with
respect to low income groups.
(c) Arrangements for Transfer of Project Facilities to the
lectrificadorass It was agreed that subsidiary agreements
would be finalized prior to loan effectiveness to effect the
transfer of 50 percent of project sub-transmission and
distribution facilities upon completion to the electrificadorast
as equity contributions from CORELCA, and 50 percent as
long-term loans from CORELCA (on Bank terms). These
arrangements were expected to enhance CORELCA's planning,
coordinating and administrative role with the electrificadoras.
(d) Institutional Arranasments for Prolect Execution: It was
essential to have a unified project management set up since the
project was dispersed over a wide area. This was recognized
early on during project preparation, and at appraisal, it was
agreed that prior to Board presentation, CORELCA would obtain
final Government approval (agreement in principle had already
been secured) to establish a Project Implementation Unit to
enable administration of the project. In addition, during
negotiations, agreement would be reached on the
electrificadoras' responsibilities for the carrying out of the
project, which would be based upon capability. The details of
these responsibilities were to be formalized in the subsidiary
agreements.



-7-
X() Finanges of CORLCA:  It was recognized at appraisal that the
magnitude of the difficulties to be overcome by CORELCA in the
financial area were such that it would take some years before
CORELCA could attain financial viability.  Those difficulties
included: tariffs substantially below the relatively high cost
of thermal generation; and constraints on the electrificadoras'
ability to pay for power purchases because of huge electricity
losse8s large arrears from major consumers -- principally local
government agencies -- and a fairly poor power market.
Nevertheless, significant progress Was thought feasible under
the project. A program of financial strengthening was mapped
out aiming at CORELCA's being able to cover its operating
expenses, including depreciation and debt service, and to
generate a reasonable proportion of its investment requirements.
Essentially, the following measures were decided upon:
(i) Tariffs and Rate of Return: In order to avoid further
worsening of CORELCA's finances given its investment
requirements, it was agreed with Government and CORELCA
that tariff increases of 45 percent per year were needed
during 1981-83 (in effect a 69 percent cumulative in real
terms). These increases represented 13 percent per annum
over the 2.5 percent per month already authorized.
CORELCA and the electrificadoras undertook to obtain,
prior to negotiations, the Government's formal approval to
enact such increases and, prior to loan effectiveness, to
put into effect the 1981 tariff adjustment. It was
expected that with these tariff increases CORELCA could
achieve in 1983 and thereafter, a rate of return on fully
revalued assets of no less than 9 percent.
Cii)  Fuel Plices:  As agreed under the earlier 500 kV
Interconnection Project, in order to make marginally more
attractive to CORELCA the purchase of bydro-based electric
power through the 500 kV line then under construction, the
Governmont had been increasing fuel prices paid by CORELCA
considerably (by 51 percent in 1979 and a further 26
percent in 1980). However, at appraisal, severe rationing
in the central system was under way due to underinvestment
during the mid-1970s and delays in plant construction,
combined with adverse hydrological conditions. It was
foreseen that power rationing would have to be continued,
and perhaps intensified, for several years. No surplus of
hydro-based energy was therefore available for sale to
CORELCA and it was necessary to re-consider the matter of
fuel pricing. Consequently, it was agreed to discuss this
in detail with Government during negotiations.
(iii)  Receivables from Energv Sales:  Since large receivables
from energy sales, particularly from government
dependencies, had constrained CORELCA's (and the
electrificadoras') finances, it was decided to request the
Government during negotiations to confirm formally its
stated determination to take all possible actions to



ensure timely payment of arrears. As the main delinquent
accounts were those of the water supply utilitios, with
which the Bank was involved through lending, it was
thought appropriate for the Bank to address this matter
directly with these water utilities prior to negotiations.
(f)  Finances of the Kiectrificadoras:  Besides endeavoring to reduce
overdue accounts from energy sales it was considered essential
to undertake the following actions concerning the
electrificadoras' finances:
(i)  Tariffs: Prior to negotiations, the electrificadoras
would have to increase their tariffs to the levels already
approved by Government.
(ii)  Procedure for Tariff Increases: During negotiations, the
Governments would have to agree that, in future, the
electrificadoras would be authorized formally to increase
automatically their tariffs in conjunction with CORELC&'s
increases.
(iii) Financial Targets: Prior to negotiations, CORELCA would
present to the Bank a feasible program of financial
strengthening of the electrificadoras, including rate of
return targets, which were to be incorporated Into the
subsidiary agreements. During negotiations this program
was to be agreed in detail.
(iv) Distribution Lossess The electrificadoras were to
undertake in the subsidiary agreements to reduce power
losses. Targets for this losses reductiou were to be set
in the subsidiary agreements, and would be adjusted as
necessary in accordance with the losses study which was to
be provided for under the project.
3.04    Prolect Obiectives. The project, which represents the only loan so
far to CORELCA, was aimed at supporting the Government's effort to integrate
the North Atlantic rural population into the modern economy by provision of
basic infrastructure. The main objective, therefore, was to assist CORELCA
and the electrificadoras in improving and extending power service to rural
areas in that region, in order to promote economic activity, employment
opportunities, and welfare. A second objective of the project was to effect a
g;adual improvement of the financial capability of the North Atlantic paver
system, which would enable the extension of reliable electric service to a
higher proportion of the area's population at reasonable cost. Concomitant
with these objectives, the project was geared to strengthen firtber CORELCA's
operations and those of its subsidiary electrificadoras by the provision of
technical training for staff, as well as the execution of a power losses
study. Both studies were needed to improve CORELCA's and the
electrificadoras' technical and financial performance in support of CORELCA'
institution-building objectives.
3.05    Project Descrintion. CORELCA had identified considerable scope for
expanding power service In rural areas in the North Atlantic region, since, as



-9-
pointed out in para 2.05, rural inhabitants in this part of Colombia tend to
live in villages instead of being dispersed in the countryside. This led
CORELCA to devise a village electrification program to be developed before the
end of the century, and which was to ultimately bring electricity to
agroindustrial and rural commercial enterprises, and to some 215,000 village
households (representing about 1.4 million people).  The cost of the program
was estimated at about US$150 million (at June 1980 prices). The project was
designed as the first tranche of this program. In order to carry out the
project it was necessary to construct:
(a) transmission facilities mainly for subprojects in Magdalena,
Cesar and Bolivar South, comprising 220 km of 110 and 66 kV
transmission lines; and transformer capacities of: 30 MVA for
220/110 kV; 15 MVA for 220134.5 kV; 41 MVA for 10/34.5 kV; 22
MVA for 66/34.5/13.8 kY; and 22 MVA for 110/13.8 kV;
(b)  subtransmission facilities, consisting of about 1,150 km of 34.5
kV and 13.8 kV lines, and 48 MVA in transformer capacity for
34.5/13.8 kV; and
(c) distribution facilities comprising about 470 km of distribution
lines and about 35 NVA of distribution transformer capacity.
These works were expected to extend and improve power service to
about 33,000 village households initially and to enable 14,000
future connections over a 15-year period.
The training component was Seared to handle about 1,500 participants and 1,500
man-months per year. This involved the equipping of a training center which
was to be constructed by Electrificadora of Atlantico. The training program
was to cover courses not available in other training centers and to focus
particularly on the areas of critical importance to the electrificadora.
Concerning the loss reduction component, it comprised a study to identify
distribution losses (techbical losses, billing deficiencies and theft), and
the formulation of a loss-reduction program.
3.06    Project Desian and Oraanization. At the time the SAR was prepared,
the final design and bidding documents for the transmission, subtransmission
and distribution components were under preparation and well advanced. In the
SAR, it was stated that about 40 percent of the design work was to be
available at the time of negotiations. This would have permitted putting out
to bid at least 60 percent of the distribution, transmission and
subtransmission equipment, and would have allowed the project to be carried
out in accordance with the agreed implementation timetable. The latter called
for completion of the village electrification component in mid-1985 i/. The
design work was entrusted by CORRLCA to the same consultants that bad prepared
the feasibility study. Theso consultants started their task by presenting a
report to CORELCA defining the technical design parameters of the
transmission, subtransmission and distribution components of the project and
the unit-costs estimated. The design parameters were based on national
guidelines prepared by ICEL for rural areas, modified to take account of
i/ Nowever, In the President's Report and Recommendation completion of the
project is foreseen in December 31, 1985.



- 10 -
conditions in the Atlantic Coast region, particularly salinity, and the
electrificadoras' experience, including lowering the quality of service in
low-consumption areas.
3.07    The training program had been prepared by consultants for
Electrificadora of Atlantico. This included the configuration of a training
center and the design of the training program and courses.
3.08    The SAR indicated that overall supervision, administration and
coordination of the project was to be entrusted to a special Project Unit
under the responsibility of CORELCA. At the time the SAR was prepared,
CORELCA's Board had already approved the establishment of this unit, and in
fact the unit had been operating since mid-1980 using personnel transferred
from other departments of CORELCA. In the SAR it is stated that the chief of
the unit was an engineer with adequate experience in distribution projects,
who had been previously in charge of technical assistance to the
electrificadoras in the execution of rehabilitation programs of distribution
grids and small rural distribution projects. The SAR also indicated that the
unit was adequately staffed to perform its functions of supervising the work
of the consultants to be employed to carry out supervision of the works.
These consultants were to be selected under terms satisfactory to the Bank no
later than November 30, 1981.
3.09    Proiect Cost Estimate and Financing. The project cost estimate in the
SAR coincided with that shown in the Issues/Decision Paper and amounted to the
equivalent of US$68.7 million with a foreign exchange component of US$36
million (521). This cost estimate was based on June 1980 prices readjusted to
December 1980 levels. It included 15 percent physical contingencies for
village electrification and 10 percent for training, as well as price
escalation provisions amounting to 23 percent over base-line costs plus
physical contingencies. The $AR indicated that transmission and
subtransmission costs were obtained from recent contracts and bids for similar
projects under construction by CORELCA and other power utilities, while
distribution costs were based on electrificadoras' and ICEL's experience.
Regarding the training costs, the SAR stated that these were those prepared in
the study made by a consulting firm and reviewed by a Bank specialist.
Finally, the SAR indicated that the provision for physical contingencies and
price escalation were considered adequate given the advanced status of project
designs.
3.10 Concerning project financing, the SAR dissented from the
Issues/Decision Paper by lowering Bank financing from US$38 million to US$36
million, which, nevertheless, covered the full foreign cost estimate of the
project. In the SAR the financing plan was also somewhat modified from that
of the Issues/Decision Paper and was presented as follows:



- 11 -
USS million            Percent
Bank                      36.0                   52.3
Government                13.7                   20.0
CORELCA                    3.5                    S.1'
Electrificadoras           3.5                    5.1
Beneficiaries             12.0                   17.5
6.7                   100.0,
3.11    The Village Electrification Loan Documents.  In April 1981,
representatives of the Bank, the Government, and CORELCA completed
negotiations for the Village Electrification Project. On May 21, 1981, the
Executive Directors approved Loan 1999-CO (US$36 million) to help finance the
project. The Village Electrification Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
Agreement were signed about a year later on May 14, 1982. The agreements
reached during negotiations, which were incorporated in the Loan Agreement and
which are shown in Part III of this report, were essentially those spelled out
in the SAR. Special conditions of effectiveness were that satisfactory
subsidiary agreements with the electrificadoras would be finalized and that
arrangements would be made for CORELCA's 1981-82 financing requirements.
Concerning this last condition, it was stated in the President's Report and
Recommendations that, although CORELCA's finances were expected to show a
gradually improving situation, the Government was still required to support
CORELCA during the project execution period (1980-85), because it was foreseen
that CORELCA would be able to generate only a modest portion of its investment
requirements. The Government had, therefore, undertaken in the Guarantee
Agreement to ensure that the required funds would be made available to CORELCA
in a timely manner. Lastly, to ensure adherence to CORELCA's financing plan
as well as to the national least-cost power expansion program9 CORELCA agreed
not to undertake, until project completion, without prior concurrence of the
Bank, investments In any one year not related to its power operations, nor
those that would exceed in aggregate one percent of the value of its net fixed
assets in operation other than for: (a) the project; (b) generation expansion
included in the national power expansion program, provided that adequate
financing was available; and (c) the balance of items included in its agreed
1981-85 program of investments.
3.12    Environmental Issues. No environmental problems were anticipated in
the SAR. Apparently CORELCA had carried out previous transmission projects
with due regard to environmental aspects. The routing of transmission lines
had been selected across rural areas with low population density, and clearing
of rights-of-way was to be kept to a minimum; people affected were to be
compensated for damage to property and crops. Regarding the subtranesmission
lines, their routes, according to the SAR, were generally chosen to use the
existing rights-of-ways of roads. It also indicated that in designing the
distribution systems, due attention had been taken to reduce visual pollution
with special attention to safety. Obtaining rights-of-way for transmission
lines Was not considered troublesome since CORELCA had the right of eminent
domain for its works. The SAU stated, moreover, that CORELCA's establishment
decree gave it the right to use rights-of-ways along roads.



- 12 -
4. Prolect ImSlementation.
4,01    Effectiveness.  As indicated in para 3.11, loan signing was delayed
one year. This was due to the need to obtain congressional approval for
raising the foreign borrowing level available to Government. Due to delaya in
executing the subsidiary loan agreements between CORELCA and the
electrificadoras and in fulfilling the other effectiveness conditions, the
Village Electrification Loan did not became effective until February 15, 1983,
about 9 months after loan signing. Delayed effectiveness did not adversely
affected commencement of the procurement process for the project because the
tender documents for bulk procurement of line materials were prepared
opportunely.
4.02    Procurement. Although the procurement process went on generally with
few major problems, nevertheless, obtaining final approval for supply
contracts was often a lengthy and cumbersome task. The main problem arose
because CORELCA organized tender documents for large contract packages in
order to obtain price advantages, which were actually achieved. However,
Colombian legislation governing contracts required that any contract in excess
of Col$150 million had to be approved by the Colombian Cabinet through the
good offices of the MKE. The approval process was even more cumbersome for
contracts in excess of Col$250 million, which had to be cleared by the highest
administrative tribunal in Colombia, "the Consejo de Estadto". Unfortunately
this tribunal is usually overloaded with cases and final decisions on
contracts for the project sometime took many months; in one extreme case it
took 15 months for the tribunal to issue a decision.
4.03    There were only two instances where difficulties arose between
CORELCA and the Bank concerning the award of supply contracts. In one case
(for materials), CORELCA decided to award the contract to the second lowest
bidder, a decision to which the Bank objected. Nevertheless, CORELCA
proceeded with execution of a contract with the selected bidder. In the other
case (for training modules), CORELCA decided to rebid the supply contract,
because one of the tenders had been submitted by the same consulting firm that
had prepared the tender specifications. This raised strong objections from
other tenderers claiming that the tender specifications were biased in favor
of that consulting firm. As no decision could be reached finally on award of
the contract, the Bank suggested direct procurement from the consulting firm
that had assisted CORELCA in the training program and claimed that they could
only perform this assistance using their own training modules. However,
CORELCA9s Board did not accepted the Bank's suggestion and the procurement of
these items was postponed indefinitely. All this led the Bank to cancel an
amount of US$1.8 million from the loan. The procurement problems, among other
setbacks, seriously affected the implementation of the training component of
the project and led ultimately to its complete failure, as will be discussed
further along in para 4.05.
4.04    The Villa&t  Electrification Com2onent.  Albeit with long delays
caused mainly by the procurement problems signalled in the preceding
paragraph, and delays in the supply of funds from Government and the
electrificadoras (see para 4.10), the village electrification component ws8
successfully implemented except for one transmission line, the 110 kV 50 km
loug Valledupar - Codazzi line. Cosutruction of this line, at an estimated
cost of Col. 606 million equivalent to US$0.87 million, is expected to begin



- 13 -
soon. Due to significant savings in the procurement of materials and
equipment, it was possible to expand considerably the scope of this component
of the project X8. The magnitude of the expanded project compared to its
original extent can be judged by the following comparative figures:
Original  Expanded      Under
Proiect   Prolect  Construjctio
Transmission Lines, length            230 km     230 km      50 km
Subtranamission Lines, length       1,150 km   1,312 km
Substation's capacity                186 MVA    174 MVA
Distribution Systems, length          470 km   1,238 km
Consumers' connection                 33,000     68,700
What is more striking is that the project infrastructure (transmission,
subtransmission and substations) has allowed CORELCA to extend electric
service to a total of 563 villages with 121,000 consumers, that is, 412
villages and 52,000 more users than were included in the expanded village
electrification component. Funding for these additions, which made good use
of the infrastructure facilities built by the project, was obtained from the
PNR (National Rehabilitation Plan) and from municipalities. Currently, only
one municipal capital and a few remote hamlets are still not connected to
CORELCA's system. All in all, the project successfully achieved and exceeded
the physical targets established at appraisal.
4.05    Traiuina Component.  As indicated in para 4.03, implementation of the
training component was an outright failure. A number of setbacks finally led
to the abandonment of this component of the project. The problems started
with the construction of the buildings for the training center at Santa
Veronica. Because of poor performance by the construction contractor, its
contract was rescinded. This prompted CORELCA to re-examine the sitting of
the center, since the selected location was rather remote from habitations and
required the construction of accommodations for trainees. In addition, it was
fouad that there were problems with the foundation, due to swelling of soils
in the area. CORELCA decided then to refurbish training facilities owned by
the National Industrial Training Organization (SENA), located at the town of
Sabanalarga near Barranquilla's airport. These facilities had been set up for
mechanical training and at the time, had been shut-down. CORELCA obtained
from SENA a 25-year free hold and proceeded with the refurbishment and
enlargement of the existing buildings. Subsequently, the procurement process
for the center's equipment was undertaken and orders placed for laboratory
equipment. Unfortunately, as explained in para 4.03, procurement of the
training modules, which included equipment for the thermal power plant9s
operation simulation as well as for substations' operation, was made moot by
CORELCA' Board action. CORELCA then tried to interest SENA in taking over and
completing the training center. This approach was unsuccessful; SEA
indicated that its training philosophy had changed, in the sense that it was
going away from large training facilities in favor of smaller and more compact
1l/ Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement was amended on November 11, 1986 by: (a)
substituting "1,400 km" for "1,150 km" in Part B(1); and (b) substituting
"1,300 km" for "470 km" part B(2).



-14 -
training centers closer to users. The latest approach by CORELCA was done to
PESENCA (Special Energy Program for the Atlantic Coast), a cooperative effort
between GTZ (Deutsche Gesselschaft fur Technishe Zusammernarbeit, Gmbh) and
Government to develop low-coot non-polluting sources of energy in the North
Atlantic region. However, PESENCA thought the training center at Sabanalarga
was a venture too large for its resources and declined to take care of it.
CORELCA, on the other hand, currently considers that its business is to
generate and supply electric energy to the region and not to operate a
training center, which should be done by a specialized agency such as the
SENA. In fact, both CORELCA and the electrificadoras had been and still are
using SENA's training center for electric utility personnel at Cucuta.
4.06    With hindsight, it would appear that if a training center was needed
for the North Atlantic region's electric utilities' personnel, it would have
been more appropriato to have enlisted SENS's assistance during project
preparation. SENA had the required capability to handle such a training
component of the project and was highly regarded as a competent training
organization. Altogether, it would seem that there was an overestimation of
the proper role of CORELCA vie a vis training, as opposed to its key
responsibilities for power supply and intra-Regional coordination, facts which
CORELC&'s Board finally came to grips with.
4.07    Power Losses Studt.  The power losses study component of the project
was successfully conducted by consultants under terms of reference approved by
the Bank. The equipment recomended by this study, to effect a close control
of losses, was procured with loan funds; this included watt-hour meter control
stands for each eloctrificadora and special high precision watt-hour metering
equipment for substations, as well as portable instruments.
4.08    The power losses control program established under the study has been
implemented by CORILCk and the electrificadoras, although certain features
concerning technical losses, which required splitting of feeders and addition
of substations, are still underway in tune with the arrival of material and
equipment (the Bank agreed on March 7, 1986 to cover up to 100 percent of
foreign and local expenditures for power losses control equipment). Metering
of consumers' service drops has been practically fully covered, as well as
improvements in substations' metering. Special units have been set up in each
electrificadora to carry out an effective control of power theft and to check
accuracy of meters. Monthly meetings are held at CORELCA's headquarters by
the heads of these power losses' control units, which are always attended by
the general managers of all CORELCA's subsidiaries. All these actions have
resulted in significant lowering of power losses, more or less on line with
Government directives. Overall losses in CORELCASJ' and the slectrificadoras'
system have been reduced from an average of 23.7 percent of energy delivered
to the system in 1988 to 20.5 percent in 1991. It should be pointed out that
Government directives in the same period required power losses to be reduced
from the level of 23 percent in 1988, to 22 percent in 1989, and 20.2 percent
In 1991. Altogether, a reduction of 3.2 percentage points or 14 percent gain
in reducing power losses in a 3-year span is a very creditable achievement.
These good results were greatly helped by the Government's decision to
authorize the application of heavy fines and the suspension of power service
to consumers found with fraudulent connections or damaging power metering
apparatus.



- 15 -
4.09    Fixed Assets Revaluation Study.  With a delay of five years, a fixed
assets revaluation study Was completed for CORELCA with the assistance of
local consultants financed by loan funds. The terms of reference for this
exercise were cleared by the Bank and were based on a study prepared for the
Empresa de Energia de Bogota (EEB). CORELCA is currently applying the
methodology developed in this study to the revaluation of its fixed assets.
4.10    Timetable snd Costs.  Overall implementation of the Village
Electrification Project took 9 1/2 years from July 1981 to December 1990. In
the SAR, project implementation was expected to require only 4 years (in the
President's Report the time-frame for project implementation is given as 4 1/2
years). This means that carrying out the project took at least 5 years more
than anticipated at appraisal. The basic reasons for the considerable time
overrun were: (a) cumbersome and length7 contract processing procedures for
procurement of goods and services in Colombia's contracting legislationt (b)
nonfulfillment of the Government's agreed contributions for the project in a
timely manner; (c) delays in the electrificadoras' bridge-financing; and (d)
the sixteen-month delay in loan effectiveness. The difficulties with
obtaining legal sanction of contracts for supply and construction have been
signalled in para 4.02. The Government did not comply with its financial
obligations with the project; by end 1985 (at a time the project should have
been completed), it had only contributed the equivalent of US$5.2 million or
only 38 percent of the US$13.7 million the Government had undertaken formally
to contribute to the project. As a censequence of this, CORELCA faced with a
large number of construction contracts with insufficient funding. The end
product of this Government action was to cause bankruptcy to a good number of
smaller contractors who did not have access to lines of credit. Obviously,
considerable delays occurred in carrying out the works in the areas where
contractors had failed. Concerning the electrificadoras' contribution, the
main problems were the poor financial situation of these utilities,
particularly their cash position throughout the project implementation period,
and difficulties collecting overdue accounts receivable for electricity sales
and in the application of tariff increases which were iplemented without
prior authorization from the tariff regulating body, the National Tariffs
Commission (JUT). The electrificadoras were sued by consumers and had to
suspend the tariff increases.
4.11    Whichever were the problems that arose during implementation of the
project, it is quite clear that the time schedule estimated at appraisal was
optimistic. Although there was no previous Bank experience with such projects
in Colombia, the Bank's current implementation profiles for rural
electrification projects run between 7 and 9 years.
4.12    The final cost of the project as of December 1991 was the equivalent
of US$58.7 million compared to US$68.7 million estimated at appraisal.
However, the figures cannot be readily compared, because the village
electrification component of the project was greatly expanded, as explained in
para 4.04, and the training component was never implemented. On the other
hand, expenditures for power losses control equipment sad for a fixed assets
revaluation study amounting to US$3.2 million, which had not been foreseen at
appraisal, are included in the final cost. Part III of this report shows a
sumnary comparison of the original project cost est4mAte with the actual
project expenditure per major items of the project.



- 16 -
4.13    ginancgna.  Contribution to the project expenditures by the
electrificadoras and the beneficiaries was minimal. It amounts in total to
only the equivalent of US$1.4 million or 2 percent of the final project cost,
instead of the 23 percent that was assumed in the SAR. The Government
contribution was smaller and provided later than agreed upon, US$11.5 million
against the US$13.7 million it had undertaken to cantribute according to the
Guarantee Agreement (Section 2.02). In fact, CORELCA had to cover the
underfunding of the project caused by the failure of Government,
electrificadoras and beneficiaries to honor their co-intments. CORELCA
provided US$15.7 million of project fimancing, compared to the US$3.5 million
originally planned. In Part III of this report there is a tabulation of the
sources of funds for the project as foreseen at appraisal and as actually made
available.
5. Proiect Results
5.01    The project fully achieved its main objective which was to develop an
extensive village electrification scheme in the North Atlantic region of
Colombia. In fact, the project exceeded the expectations at appraisal by
covering a much larger rural population than anticipated. The power losses
control objective seems to be developing along the lines agreed with
Government, and the institutional infrastructure to continue the effort is now
in place. In this context, it is important to mention that the Government
finally realized that only through strong measures, including heavy fines, it
is possible to attain some degree of control over the widespread theft of
electric energy. Nowadays the electrificadoras have the legal tools to
disconnect fraudulent consumers, to impose heavy fines, and to prosecute the
worst offenders. However, as explained in para. 4.05, the training objective
was not met and, at this time, there seems to be little prospect that it will
be.
5.02    During project implementation the financial performance of the
regiou's power sector utilities was generally poor. Concerns about the
financial situation of CORELCA and the electrificadorss appear throughout the
Bank's supervision mission reports. Their financial performance has not
improved noticeably, particularly in the case of the electrificadoras; in
1990, the consolidated net income from operations was Col $866 million
u-sat4v,i and for 1991 it might be slightly positive. Beoides their poor
operating results, the electrificadoras' accounts receivable at end of 1991
reached a total of Col$60,500 million (equivalent to US$86 million), of which
governmental agencies owed Col$33,350 million. Currently, the Government has
decided to take strong measures to try to correct this situation.
Accordingly, a plan for settlement of arrears was recently approved by the
National Council of Economic Policy (CONPES). It calls for government
agencies tos
(a)  pay all arrears to the electrificadoras following agreed
payment schedules;
(b) include the item "Payment of Electric Power" in their annual
budgets, with an amount at least equal In real terms to their
power billing for the preceding year;



-17 -
(c)  produce financial or real assets guarantees to back up payment
of electric energy billst
(d)  accept that the slectrificadoras can collect the guarantees
and suspend service in cases of not ensuring timely payment of
electricity bills. The Energy Finance Corporation (PEN) will
be in charge of monitoring compliance with the above measures.
Whether there will be the political will to apply these measures,
appears uncertain, giving the highly politicized condition of the
electrificadoras and past reluctance of the Government to support lasting
solutions.
5.03    Although CORELCA managed in 1991 to achieve an 11 percent rate of
return on average revalued net fixed assets in operation, accounts-receivable
nevertheless, reached Col$1129529 million (equivalent to US$161 million), at
the end of the year, or 412 days of power sales. Of this amount, Col$71,799
million represented unpaid power billed, Col$77,025 million, penalty interests
on arrears and Col$5,705 million, refinancing of interest. In other words,
the arrears problem of the electrificadoras has been transferred to CORELCA,
and further increased.
5.04    The recomputed internal rate of return (IRR) for the village
electrification component is 23 percent compared with 13.3 percent at
appraisal. This favorable result is due mainly to the considerable increase
in the number of consumers over those initially contemplated (see Part TII).
6. Priiect Sustainability
6.01    The major benefit realized from the project is the badly needed
supply of electric power to the population of vast rural areas of Colombia's
underdeveloped northern coastal region. The availability of electricity is
now enhancing the standard of living of the rural population in the project
villages. This benefit will endure for all the useful life of the project,
which would be about 30-40 years.
6.02    The second benefit is the revenue from the sale of energy through the
project facilities. Of course, this benefit depends on the level of power
tariffs applied during the life of the project.
7.   Bank Performance
7.01    The project's main objective of supporting the Government's efforts
to integrate the country's poorest and most backward region, the North
Atlantic regional rural population, into national life, was an integral part
of the Bank's strategy of using the Bank resources to meet Colombia's most
pressing development needs. The Bank played in this regard a discreet but
vital role in trying to ensure that the project management was efficient. The
evident success of the village electrification component of the project owes
such to the flexible approach taken by the Bank staff vis-a-vis the many
difficulties encountered by CORELCA In implementing the project, particularly
in the contracting process for procurement of goods and services and in the
very complex problem of dealing with the electrificadoras.



- 18 -
7.02    With hindsight, the objectives set in the SAR concerning
institutional reform of the electrificadoras and improvement of their
financial position could have been rather optimistic. Nevertheless, the Bank
staff pursued with tenacity the goals of maintenance of an adequate level of
tariffs and to push for adjustments in the institutional aspects of the
region's power sector. Unfortunately, failure in achieving the project's
financial and institutional objectives was in large measure due to
Government's lack of support for the required adjustments because of political
or regional considerations.
7.03    On the other hand, the setback on the training component of the
project was certainly ultimately due to misjudgment by the Bank on the
suitability of CORELCA to Implement it, instead of having recourse to the
experienced and competent national industrial training organization. In fact,
the search for other training organizations to assume responsibility for the
training center and for training, which took place once it was evident that
the training component had failed, is a good indication of the realization by
the borrower of its concern that it would not have the breadth to incorporate
training responsibilities into its already demanding mandate.
7.04    Finally, the very large overrun in the time employed to Implement the
project compared to appraisal estimates is difficult to explain, since there
was considerable experience Bank-wide on actual implementation time-spans for
projects such as the Village Electrification Project. Fortunately, the Bank
exhibited flexibility in extending the closing date of the loan from the
original date of June 30, 1986 to June 30, 1988 (in fact, the last loan
disbursement took place on February 2, 1989). Nevertheless, about US$4.2
million of the loan funds were canceled on that date, in addition to the
US$1.8 million that had already been canceled (para. 4.03).
8.   Borrower Performance
8.01    At project appraisal, CORELCA, during its short period of operations,
had made remarkable inroads towards overcoming the power problems of the North
Atlantic region, which depended entirely upon thermal-based generating plants.
In addition to providing incremental electricity supply from the generating
facility, it had developed and interconnected the systems of the
electrificadoras. Purthermore, to achieve a less costly use of non-renewable
fuels, it gradually replaced generation from their old and fuel-inefficient
oil-fired plants with energy generated from CORELCA's more economic and better
maintained facilities.  CORELCA's management staff was considered highly
dedicated and capable; in less than nine years, the corporation had
constructed 500 MW of thermal generating plant and about 500 km of
transmission lines. It is therefore not surprising that the village
electrification component of the project was so successfully Implemented and
considerably expanded in scope, all within the original budgeted amount. All
in all, CORELCA's performance can be considered satisfactory in implementing
this component with little help from the electrificadoras and faced with the
inflexibility and inefficiency of the contracting process in Colombia.
8.02    As indicated in para 7.03, the failure of the training component of
the project cannot be ascribed to CORELCA but to a mistaken conceptual
approach during project preparation. It certainly would have been desirable



- 19 -
for the Bank to have sought the opinion of an independent consultant before
pressing CORELCA to include this component in the project sCope.
8.03    CORELCA complied generally with loan covenants although in some cases
belatedly. On the other hand, CORELCA made determined efforts to improve the
administration of its subsidiaries and their financial management,
particularly the problem of arrears, albeit with not much success. In this
context, it should be stressed that CORELCA received little help from
Government. There were a number of statements of good intentions but actually
few governmental actions that could be enforced.
9.   Prolect Relationshing
9.01    The Bank resumed lending to the power sector in 1978, after a long
absence due to key issues that took several years to agree on. Since
returning, it had focussed its lending on large projects (and the main
utilities) to help reduce the economic and social impact of past
underinvestment. This gave rise to a perception that the Bank interest was
confined to the largest and mainly urban, utilities, to the exclusion of the
less developed regions of the country. The Village Electrification Project
did much to dispel this perception of the Bank's intentions. Here was a
project, which genuinely would be assisting the Government's efforts in favor
of a large segment of the country's population, smong the poorest and most
backward. This project together with other projects which touched the rural
population reinforced an atmosphere of mutual confidence with the Government.
9.02    The Bank received very close cooperation from the borrower during
project preparation and appraisal. This cooperative attitude established
early during the project cycle made possible to resolve satisfactorily the
complications that normally occur during implementation of a project of the
nature of the Village Electrification Project.
10.   Performance of Consultants
10.01   Although the Village Electrification Project was not a complex
project in the technical sense, it did require great care in establishing
appropriate technical-economic and cost parameters in order to avoid serious
pitfalls that have befall other similar projects. It was therefore essential
to have the assistance of qualified consultants both during the feasibility
and design stages. This assistance was satisfactorily provided by a local
consulting firm.
10.02   Construction supervision was carried out by a number of local
consulting firms that performed generally in a satisfactorily manner. Only a
few cases occurred where the consultants were apparently more interested in
creating difficulties in order to extend their contract as much a possible.
Some of these contracts cost as much as 80 percent of the cost of the works
being supervised.
10.03   The consultants for the power losses study performed creditably in
carrying out a well-founded study and in designing the measures needed to
control this problem. Likewise, the consultants for the revaluation of asets
study, performed satisfactorily and the proposed methodology is now being



- 20 -
applied by CORELCA. The osme cannot be said of the performance by the
consulting firm for the training component. In fact its performance was
tainted by their insistence in participating in the tendering for the training
modules for which it had prepared the technical spezifications adjusted to the
characteristics of its cown modules. This behavior was the final blow to the
training component of the project.
11.   Pro1ect Dogumentation and Data
11.01   The SAR was   comprehensive document, which provided a useful
frsmework for the Bank and CORELCA during implementation. The project's legal
agreements reflected the Bank's interest in the satisfactory execution of the
project and in achieving the development objectives of the Government in the
North Atlantic region rural areas. Supervision reports gave generally a good
indication of the project status at any time and of any major incident during
project implementation. These reports together with the progress reports
provided the basic documentary information for judging the project results.
12. Conclusion and Lessons to be Learned
12.01   Conclusions.  The Village Electrification Project was a well prepared
project in its rural electrification component, which achieved its main
objective of extending electric service to a vast area in the North Atlantic
region of Colombia, reaching a large number of households and businesses. The
fact that project implementation took much lonter than anticipated, does not
detract from the evident successful outcome of zhe endeavor. On the other
hand, failure of the training component could have been foreseen from the
start, since it was beyond the scope of CORELCI's main responsibilities.
12.02   The sorely needed power losses control exercise got to a good start
with a sharp reduction in these losses.  This confirms the well designed
program derived from the power losses study component of the project.
12.03   The project was less successful in achieving its aim of improving the
financial and institutional aspects of the power sector in the North Atlantic
region of Colombia. However, recent measures by Government open the
possibility of progress in these areas. How successful these initiatives will
be, depend ultimately on the political will to carry them through, which is
not too clear given the political climate prevalent in the Country.
12.04   Lesson to be Learned.  The principal lessons learned from
implementation of the Village Electrification Project can be summarized as
follows5
(a) Imnlementation Time-Schedule. The implementation schedule for
projects of this sort should be based on the Bank's experience
and should adhere to available Implementation profiles, unless
it can be demonstrated clearly that the project can be developed
in a shorter time-frame.
(b) Contracts' Legal Clearances. The different steps needed to
obtain legal clearance for contracts to procure goods and
services for the project should be clearly established during
project preparation in order to avoid later problems during



- 21 -
project implementation. If necessary, specific actions should
be discussed during loan negotiations to accelerate the
procurement process.
(c) Contribution of Beneficiaries. During preparation of projects
of the nature of the Village Electrification Project, a detailed
evaluation should be made of the procedures for the collection
of contributions of beneficiaries, as vell as of their legal
implications.
(d) Trainina. The Bank should consider making a greater use of
utilizing the existing institutional training infrastructure.
It should avoid having borrowers take on responsibilities beyond
their key ones.
(e) Institutional and Financial Aims. With hindsight, the
objectives set in the SAR concerning institutional reform of the
electrificadoras and improvement of their financial position
proved optimistic, partly because of the politicized enviroment
of the Region but also in large part because the Central
Government did not fulfill its agreements under the Loan tot
(a) authorize tariff increases as scheduled; (b) make programmed
budgetary contributions to CORELCA's investment program; and
(c) carry out a program to settle arrears to the
electrificadoras for electricity sales. These risks were not
anticipated in the President's or Staff Appraisal Reports, and
such assessments should be made and reflected in those reports.
(f) The project clearly demonstrated the value of having the Project
Unit set up and adequately staffed early-in this case it was
functioning by appraisal. This contributed to efficient
implementation despite many problems that emerged along the way;
and
(g) Supervision staff should work closely with borrowers, especially
new or relatively weak ones, to assist them to anticipate and
deal with implementation problems. In the case under review,
this approach helped in shaping the project to changing
circumstances.



- 22 -
PRJET  OMLETIO  REP,ORT
COLOMBIA
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
fLOAN 1999-C)Q
PART II- PROJECT REVIEW FRON THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Set forth below are the Borrower's comments on the project
implementation, the project results, and the performance of the World Bank.
These comments have been edited to achieve stylistic consisteucy with Part I.
1.  CORELCA shares the positive assessment of the Bank about the
success of the Village Electrification Project, which in fact
exceeded considerably our expectations by permitting coverage of
a much larger rural population using as support the transmission
and subtransmission infrastructure developed by the project.
2. CORELCA is also proud of the progress achieved in the power loss
reduction program, and would endeavor to adhere as closely as
possible to the Government directives on this aspect of power
operations. In order to be able to exercise a close control on
power losses, particularly on power theft, CORELCA and its
subsidiaries have organized power losses control units, which
have the responsibility of detecting power losses problems and
effect their correction.
3.  The difficulties that arose in Implementing the training
component of the project cannot be ascribed to CORELCA but to an
initial misassessment of CORELCA's role. In fact, CORELCA's
business is the generation and the bulk transmission of electric
power and not of developing and managing training centers. In
Colombia there is an experienced and highly respected national
industrial training organization, the "SENA", which operates
training centers covering the entire spectrum of the power
sector's operational needs. In retrospect, both the Bank and
CORELCA should have oriented this project component towards some
farm-out arrangement with SERA. Nonetheless, CORELCA will
re-examine this matter with the intention of resolving it as
soon as feasible.
4. CORELCA has endeavored actively to improve both the financial
and institutional areas of its subsidiaries. However, it should
be recognized that in many cases CORELCA cannot take certain
actions vithout due consideration for the social and political
climate and without having the wholehearted support of the
Government. For instance, in the matter of power tariffs it has
to abide by the decisions of the National Tariff Commission



- 23 -
(JNT). On the arrears problem, the Government is taking steps
to redress the current unhealthy situation. COULCA expects
that the application of the Government's objectives on this
matter will certainly go a long way in correcting the problem.
5. Concerning the considerable overrun in the time span needed to
Implement the project, CORELCA would like to note that this was
caused mainly by:
(a) the cumbersome and lengthy procedures to obtain legal
sanction of contracts whenever they exceeded Col.$150
million and Col.$250 million;
(b) not receiving in a timely fashion the agreed Government
contributions for the project;
(c) the difficulties that arose to realize the beneficiaries'
contributions for the project; and
(d) finally, the 1984 Government decision to reduce Government
spending, which affected seriously the project since
CORELCA could not honor its financial obligations with the
project contractors, given the fact that the Government
suspended disbursement of monies for the project.



- 24 -
PROJEC  OMEON   OT
COLOMBIA
VILIAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
.   --(LOAN 1999-C,O
PATIII: TATSTICAL AND OTHER RJMECT INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loan.
The following loans were related to the projects
Loan                                                Year of
Title                          PurMOos             AanrovalaP   Status
1582-CO
San Carlos I                   Hydro                 1978     Completed
1538-CO
500 RV Interconnection         Transmission          1978     Completed
1725-CO
San Carlos II                  Hydro                 1978     Completed
2889-CO
Power Sector
Adjustment Sector              Sector's Fiaces       1978     On-going
2.  Project Timetable               Date Plamned          Date Actual
Identification                                            6179
Preparation                       11179                  11/79
Appraisal Mission                  5/80                   11/80
Loan Negotiations                  4/81                   4/81
Board Approval                     Sl81                   5/81
Loan Si8ning                       7/81                   5/82
Loan Effectiveness                10/81                   2/83
Loan Closing                       6/86                   6/88
Project Completion                12/85                  12/91



- 25 -
COLOMBIA
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN l999-CQ)
3.  Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year        Appraisal        Actual        Actual as Percent
mad Semester           Estimate     Disbursement    of Aiaraisal
FY82
December 319 1981          --
June 30, 1982               2.0
FY83
December 319 1982           6.0           --               --
June 30, 1983              12.5            3.4            27
FY84
December 31, 1983          19.6            8.8            45
June 30, 1984              26.6           12.5            64
FY85
December 31, 1984          33.5           17.4            52
June 30, 1985              36.0           20.1            56
FY86
December 31, 1985                         22.1            61
June 30, 1986                             24.5            68
PY87
December 31, 1986                         26.1            73
June 30, 1987                             26.1            73
FY88
December 31, 1987                         26.1             73
June 30, 1988                             27.8            77
FY89
December 31, 1988                         28.1            78
June 30, 1989                             30.1            84



- 26 -
PROECT COMPLITI0N RUPOR
COLOMBIA
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(LOA 1299-CO)
PAiRT III
4. Comparison of 8AR and Actual Prolect Costs
(US$ million)
-SAR Esimate-   -Actwa Costs-
LmIL EmJsT ota  LaaL FoI            12
1. Transission                       5.7    7.2   12.9  10.2  10.4   20.6
2. Stanmission                        5.5    9.9   1S.4   8.8   3.0    11.8
3. Distributan                        6.0    6.8   12.8  11.6   2.7    14.3
Vilae Electro Component        17.2   23.9   41.1  30.6  16.       46.7
4. Trainin Conponet                   1.0    i.3    2.3   0.8   0.5       1.3
5. Engineering and Administr.         4.9           4.9   6.9             6.9
6. Electic Power Losses Study         0.3           0.3   0.S             0.5
7. Power Losses Conol                                      0.9   2.3      3.2
8. Revaluation of AJsst Stuidy                             0.1            0.1
Base Line Costs                23.4   25.2   48.6  39.3  18.9   S8.2
9. Physcal Coningeaies                3.5    3.7    7.2
10. Pice Esclation Prov.             5.8    7.1   12.9
Total Prject Cost s                    S       ;        S          Al
Sito; Local currency expeditwes have been converted into US$
at te aveage official rate of exchangon each quarter.
(US$ Million
In SAR        Actua
IBRD                          36.0          30.1
Govelument                    13.7          11.5
CORILCA                       3.5           15.7
Electrificadoras              3.5           0.3
Beneficiaries                 12.0          1.1
Totas                          £ 



- 27 -
5. Internal Economic Rate of Return Comoutation. The SAR evaluated the
internal economic rate of return (IERR) as the discount rate which equalizes
the stream of costs and benefits attributable to the village electrification
component of the project. The 13.3 percent IERR estimated in the SAR was
based on the following assumptions:
(a) The cost stream comprised:
(i)  the capital cost in 1981 prices of the village
electrification comrnento
(ii)  the marginal cost of power delivered with the
project less the marginal cost of the power that would be
delivered without the project; and
(iii)  the incremental operational costs related to the
incremental sales associated with the project.
(b) As proxy for benefits it used:
(i) income for electricity sales calculated on the 1980 rate
for the Atlantic Coast region plus 20X increment already
approved, lses income from sales without the project
(ii) connection charges;
(iii)  saving to the beneficiaries through replacement of
kerosene by electricity for lighting;
(iv) savings on the purchase of ice; and
(v) savings through discontinuing fuel use in townships that
had local generating facilities and in agro-industrial
plants.
A similar approach was used in the re-evaluation of the IERR using the
following parameters:
(a) The cost stream includess
(i) the capital cost in Col$ of the project plus the
additional investment in distribution in order to connect
52,700 more consumers while employing the project's
transmission and subtransmission infrastructure, deflated
each year to 1981 using the wholesale prices index;
(ii)   the cost of power delivered to the system was taken as
the price paid by the electrificadoras to CORELCA for
bulk power in 1991 (adding system losses of 201), less
the cost of power that would be delivered to the system
including system losses deflated to 1981; and
(iii) the incremental operational cost associated with the
project.



- 28 -
(b) The benefits stream comprises:
(1) Income from electricity sales calculated on the 1991
averaSe rate for the Atlantic Coast region deflated to
1981, less Income from sales without the project;
(Ui) connection charges;
(iiI) savings through replacemnt of kerosene for lighting;
(iv) savings on the purchase of ie;l and
(v) savings on fuel through discontinuing of local generating
plants.
Actual average energy usage per annum for rural consumer from 1984 to 1990 was
used for computing energy sales to residential consumers in the project.
Between 1990 and up to 1999, average energy usage was assumed to Increase at
the same average rate than in the preceding seven years. Project sales were
assumed to remain constant from 1999 onward. For future increase it vould be
necessary to enlarge the facilities.
On the basis set forth above the IER is re-computed to be 23 percent.  This
favorable result is due mainly to a coniderable icrsase in the number of
consumers directly stemming from enlarged the project, plus consumers
connected In additional villages electrified using the project's transmission
and subtransmission infrastructure.
6. Use of Bank Resources
6.01    Staf£  nput.  Staff Inputs in carrying out the various tasks through
the project cycle from preparation in FY79 to FY89 were as follows:
TI$k                           InDuts (Staff WeekaI
Project Preparation                      16.2
Project Appraisal                        18.2
Loan Negotiations                         4.5
Project Supervision                      71.9
Total



- 29 -
6.02  MiUis aJsio
Star of
Thloush Aprail:
1             17197       1         EBOR
2             llt79       3         EGR-FNA-ECN
3              7/80       2         EDC-EGR
4             11180       3         EOR-FNA-FGR-CHF
Supevioa:
S             10/81       2         EOR-FNA              1           F
6              4/82       2         EGR-FNA              I           F
7              6182       1         EDC                  I
8              5/84       1         BOR                 2            M
9              6184       1         FNA                  2          F-M
10             10/85       2        EOR-FNA              2          F-M
11             9186        2        EBR-FNA              2          F-M
12             7/87        2        BOR-MOC              2          F-M
13             11187       2        BOR-FNA              2          F-M



- 30 -
7. Stata-of Codmplan  with Major oeat
Sedo 2.02 Governme  undertakes to:                              Parial (only US$11S5 mli
(O  contribute US$13,7 million to Project               were conbuted after Ing
(0)  provided CORELCA wit addidonal funds                 delags)
for Project
SedUon 3.03 Government to proide                               Pardal
funds to earr out lnvestment
Secion 34 Fbd primto                                           Yes
ectrificadoras to be same
as for CORELCA
Seion 3.L5 Government to take acdion                           Only recently Covenent has ben
so that pubmi edttes pay                            tailug serious steps on this
II'idommatter
_dIA       GovernCment to take acdons                          Yes although with deays
to mainta  tM for CORELCA
attaining raft of reur as requfred
Lean~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
SecXoo 3.0 EAter Ino subsday                                    e
Agemet with d-iddw
-}ooLf 4.01B obwer to caty out a                               Yes
study of admi sraie  and maeial
procedures of CORELCA and subsidaries
Sem 4.01(c) Take acion to strengthen                           Part
the mangagmet, organization, plannig
and opeation of subsiaries
SedoZ fa02(ak Have acoau audited and                           Yes
funih inanial Wnfomtion
Seetioo 5.b  Inform Bank of new gemfating                      Yes
capacy; alow Dank to comment;
dot commit itself to new investments
SeCm o w O.4fbtain Bank'ss avreemeut                           Yes
before committg isef to new capial
Secw S.05 No debt slall be rredM                                Yes
If debt service eoerage i lower than 1.S
,ngg S.06 Rate of retu  not lwer than                          Yes in 11
11 Perent In 193 and teeafte
ScikuS7  Cary out rme ation of                                 Yes
aMsIs study for CORELCA and
-rlicadoras
ftbo S.0L  Cwy out a pln for seNtg                             Unsuccesu
elecrlfcadraI debt to CORELCA



