Document of                 FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3053-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTRRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
CORPORACION ELECTRICA DE LA COSTA ATLANTICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
May 5, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offiVial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1979          Average Calendar 1980
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$
US$1            =  Col$42.550               US$1   =  Col$47.280
Col$1           =  US$0.02350               Col$1  =  US$0.02115
Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 1981
US$1   =  Col$52.49
Col$1 = US$0.01905
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            2    =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 square kilometyr (km       =  0.386 square mile (mi3)
1 cubic meter (m)           =  35.315 cubic feet (ft )
is                    =  264.2 gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t. metric;1,000 kg) =  1.100 short ton5 (sh. togs)
1 kilowatt (kW)              =  1,000 Watts (10  kW = 10  W)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)       =  830.3 kilocalories (kgal)
1 Megawatt (MW)              =  1,000 kW (106 kW = 109 W)
1 Gigawatt (GW)              =  1,000 MW (10  kW 6 10  W)
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)        -  1,000,000 kWh (10  kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)             =  1,000 Volts (V)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CORELCA  -      Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC      a      Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca
DNP      -      Departmento Nacional de Planeacion
EEEB     -      Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
EPM      -      Empresas Publicas de Medellin
ICEL     -      Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
IDB      -      Inter-American Development Bank
ISA      -      Interconexion Electrica, S.A.
JNT             Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos
PIN      -      Plan de Integracion Nacional
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA)
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia
Amount:              US$36 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in seventeen years, including four years
of grace at 9.6% interest per annum.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would support Government efforts to
integrate the country's poorest and most backward region,
the North Atlantic, into the modern national life. The
project comprises the first stage (1981-85) of Corporacion
Electrica de la Costa Atlantica's (CORELCA) 15-year Rural
Electrification Program to expand and improve electricity
supply in the main villages throughout the Region.
Thousands of new electricity subscribers - rural families,
as well as numerous commercial and agro-industrial enter-
prises - would benefit from this project which, overall,
is expected to facilitate growth of economic activity,
contribute to employment generation and enhance the rural
standard of living. In addition, the project would assist
CORELCA in strengthening its financial and operational
capability, as well as that of the eight departmental
companies (Electrificadoras) under its aegis. The project
consists of: (a) provision of electricity supply to
about 120 rural villages; (b) rehabilitation of old,
deteriorated distribution networks in six villages;
(c) interconnection with the CORELCA system of twenty-five
villages now dependent upon unreliable and costly local
diesel generation; (d) a training program to strengthen
the technical skills of CORELCA and the Electrificadoras'
staff; and (e) a study to help minimize heavy power losses
in the Electrificadoras' distribution systems. The project
is not subject to unusual risks, and all appropriate
provisions have been made to minimize the environmental
impact of the facilities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign    Total
(US$ million equivalent)
Transmission                                     5.7         7.2       12.9
Subtransmission                                  5.5        9.9        15.4
Distribution                                     6.0        6.8        12.8
Training                                          1.0        1.3        2.3
Construction Supervision, Administration
and Study                                      5.2         -         5.2
Total Base Cost                            23.4       25.2       48.6
Contingencies
Physical                                       3.5        3.7        7.2
Price                                          5.8        7.1       12.9
Total Project Cost 1/                      32.7       36.0       68.7
Project Financing Plan:                                (US$ million equivalent)
CORELCA                                                      3.5
Government                                                 13.7
Electrificadoras                                             3.5
Beneficiaries                                               12.0
IBRD                                                       36.0
68.7
1/   CORELCA is exempt from customs duties and taxes.
Note:  During the period 1980-86, CORELCA will carry out other investments
with an estimated cost of USS1,250 million equivalent (including
US$101 million of interest during construction). It will also require
an increase in working capital estimated at US$92 million equivalent
and will invest approximately US$254 million equivalent in Interconexion
Electrica, S.A. (ISA), in which it is a shareholder.
Financing Plan for CORELCA's
1980-86 Investment Program:
(US$ million equivalent)   %
Net Internal Cash Generation                              95.0                6
Contributions from Government and Users                  570.0               34
Proposed IBRD Loan                                        36.0                2
Other Borrowings                                         964.0               58
Total                                      1,665.0              100



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:                   FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
--(Uss Million equivalentY-
Annual                               2.0    10.5    14.1         9.4
Cumulative                           2.0    12.5    26.6        36.0
Rate of Return:       13%
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 3395b-CO, dated May 6,  1981



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
CORPORACION ELECTRICA DE LA COSTA ATLANTICA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR A
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica with the guarantee of the
Republic of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$36 million to help finance a
Village Electrification Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on Colombia (3222-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1981. This section on the economy reflects the
major findings of this report. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy made considerable progress over the past
quarter century. From a largely rural and agricultural base in the 1950s-,
it evolved to a more integrated urban-industrial and services orientation.
The productive structure of the economy was broadened appreciably and output
in both the agricultural and industrial sectors became more diversified.
Public sector investment and output came to play a greater role in the economy,
primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of decentralized
agencies and public enterprises. Also, greater reliance on foreign trade
allowed the external sector of the economy to grow, with non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanding rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widening considerably. The growing urban-industrial
coloration of economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas gave rise to rapid rural-urban migration as rural labor sought to
take advantage of higher productivity and better paying jobs in the major
metropolitan areas. Financial and capital markets evolved pari-passu with the
growing financial needs of the industrial and services sectors of the economy,
and Colombia has become an active participant in international capital markets.
The foreign exchange shortage, from which the country suffered for many years
because of sharp fluctuations in coffee prices, has moderated and the economy
has grown more resilient to external shocks as a result of the structural
changes that have occurred.
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by 2.4% p.a. on average during the 1950-79
period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per capita
income. This was the result of lower population growth, combined with more
rapid GDP growth. Population growth, which had remained in the 3.0% to
1/   Substantially unchanged from report for the First Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (No. P-3007-CO, April 29, 1981).



3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s, declined dramatically after
1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the fertility rate. Greater economic
and educational opportunities for women, rapid rural/urban migration, rising
per capita income and increased effectiveness of family planning programs
contributed to the decline in fertility. Colombia's population is currently
growing at an annual rate of 2.1%. As a result of the high proportion of
women now entering childbearing years, this rate of population growth is
expected to continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services over the past quarter century brought about a substantial improvement
in the welfare of the poorest income groups in Colombia, in both absolute and
relative terms. As a result of improved diets and better health care, the
crude death rate fell by about 50% and life expectancy rose from 50 years to
62 years. The child mortality rate declined from 17 per thousand in the early
1960s to 9 per thousand in the mid 1970s. Infant mortality, one of the best
indicators of welfare, fell to 98 per thousand in the mid-1970s, from about
124 per thousand in the early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased
substantially at all grade levels since 1960, and by the late 1970s, 91% of
urban children aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income
gioups, including those in rural areas, have experienced the greatest increases
in electricity and water services in recent years and have benefited more than
the average of the population from services of the national health system.
In spite of this progress, Colombia remains largely underdeveloped, with a
relatively small modern sector superimposed on a broad, traditional and
economically poor base. Development has been concentrated in relatively few
areas of the country, public services are not available to a large proportion
of the rural and urban populations, unemployment and underemployment are
relatively high, and income and wealth distributions are skewed. The coverage
of health care is still deficient and adequate housing is not available to a
substantial proportion of the population. Rapid migration to the three major
metropolitan areas has created urban development problems, with attendant
social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in per capita
income over the past quarter century, about one-third of the population enjoys
today only a minimum subsistance standard of living.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past twenty five years
were the result of Government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors,
provide the required economic and social infrastructure and establish an
effective institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s
development policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff
protection and the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector.
It was during this period that the country's major communication and trans-
portation networks were completed and the transformation to semi-industrial
economic structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s the prospects for
further import substitution were substantially diminished and the country
was in the midst of a period of great economic uncertainty, with economic
activity and the balance of payments heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In 1967 the authorities adopted an outward-
looking development strategy. Export promotion policies, including periodic
exchange rate devaluations and export tax rebates, were introduced and the



- 3 -
authorities began lowering tariffs and freeing capital markets from controls
as means of raising efficiency and increasing the competitiveness of Colombian
goods in external markets. These measures were highly successful in relieving
the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth. However, by the
mid-1970s the economy was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily
by the world recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of domestic
budget deficits.
Recent Economic Developments
7.         In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of fiscal and
monetary pol'cies designed to -orrect the structural and policy weaknesses pre-
vai'] -i in the economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective,
the economy was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp
increase in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports,
together with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports,
caused a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimu-
lated aggregated demand; inflation accelerated.  Economic growth also accele-
rated and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas.
Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated surpluses averaging about 5.8% of GDP during the 1976-79 period, and
by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen to about
US$4.1 billion, equivalent to nearly 12 months imports of goods and non-factor
services.
8.         While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom has had
a somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to economic
and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was lowered and
the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with some adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit (including interest rate ceilings,
directed credit, portfolio requirements, etc.), thereby reducing the financing
available to the private sector via the official capital market. These
controls encouraged the development of a flourishing extrabank market in which
credit was available albeit at high interest rates and for short maturities.
9.         The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were moderately successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth; thus relatively high inflation persisted. In 1979, consumer
prices rose by nearly 30%. Nevertheless, real GDP growth remained strong,
rising by about 5% for the year, led by a good performance in services, manu-
facturing and agriculture. However, construction and mining activities
declined. In response to the increasing stabilizing effects on aggregate
demand and the troublesome financial market distortions caused by inflation
and the extended period of monetary restraint, the authorities began in late
1979 to adjust the stabilization program. The rate of peso devaluation was
advanced to increase export incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in
early 1980, credit restraints were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements.
At the same time, interest rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks
and development finance companies - and on the lending therefrom - were



- 4 -
freed from controls. To offset the inflationary effects of these measures
the authorities further liberalized import payments and adopted the policy,
supported by a new issue of short-term certificates, of not expanding the
subsidized selective credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the
resources captured from private savings for their financing. The authorities
also increased the surveillance and control of the illegal export trade.
10.       The effects of the above measures were not immediately noticeable.
Industrial sector growth slowed during 1980, non-coffee exports weakened and
construction activity, which had fallen sharply in 1979, continued to slacken.
Agricultural output was affected by drought, high incidence of disease and
rising fertilizer costs. Real GDP growth declined to 4% in 1980 and unemploy-
ment started to creep up. With world coffee prices at relatively high levels
for most of the year, in addition to rising domestic gold production and
short-term capital inflows because of high domestic interest rates, Colombia's
balance of payments in 1980 is estimated to have registered an over-all surplus
in the US$1,100 million range. This would maintain net official reserves at
about 12 months imports of goods and non-factor services. Inflation continued
to be a problem in 1980, however, despite the slowdown in economic activity,
with consumer prices increasing by about 26% for the year. The major challenge
facing the Colombian authorities over the next few years will be to bring
about a reduction in the inflation rate, while at the same time raising invest-
ment to the level required for private sector expansion.
Development Strategy
11.       Achievement in this decade of the Government's objectives of increased
productivity and maximum economic growth, increased employment, improved
distribution of income and greater welfare for all Colombians will require a
major effort to remove from the economy the constraints of inadequate economic
and social infrastructure and insufficient demand. Infrastructure needs are
most pressing in the energy and transportation sectors.
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives are set forth in the recently promulgated Plan de Integracion Nacional
(PIN). This strategy continues the previous emphasis on export promotion as
a means of supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments
stability, and on policy measures, including further import liberalization,
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a large increase in public investment, giving high priority to
energy projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional automomy and the uniting of regional growth centers
through improved transport, communication and financial links are directed
towards creating an integrated national market, a strategic goal of the
PIN. The Plan also places emphasis on the promotion of both small scale and
commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and contribut-
ing to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy



objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with adequate
credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and
expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating
employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign investment is to be
encouraged. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the PIN. Its efforts are focussed upon improving efficiency
in the use of resources and strengthening the social service institutions.
Programs in the health and education sectors are to be better focussed and
integrated, and selected low income and economically disadvantaged groups,
such as workers in the informal sector, children and unemployed youth, are
singled out for special attention. Combined with extensions of the Integrated
Rural Development (DRI) and National Nutrition (PAN) projects, the new direc-
tions given to social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare
of low income groups in Colombia.
13.       While the PIN provides a good analysis of the development issues
facing the country and sets forth the general guidelines for policies and
programs to resolve these issues, there are two important aspects of bringing
off the development strategy that are expected to receive increasing attention
from the authorities in coming months. The first involves a required deepening
of the sector analyses in order to improve coordination in planning and executing
sector strategies, and the second has to do with matters related to financing
the PIN. Given the large investment required to carry out the PIN strategy,
inadequate planning and coordination among sectors or insufficient domestic
resource mobilization would be likely to result in substantial resource mis-
allocation and to delay execution of the strategy. It is essential that this
be avoided. The two most important sectors where additional work is urgently
required are energy and transportation.
14.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976 and by 1986 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb over 30% of total merchandise exports. In the
absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages will become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources -- hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas -- and also upon increasing
petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will
require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with energy
resource availabilities, a least cost program of investments, sufficient
domestic and external financing for these investments, strengthened sector
institutions, improved program execution capability and rapid carrying out of
investments. Although planning and policymaking have improved substantially
in many energy sector institutions in recent years, overall planning and
coordination in the sector are still weak. A study initiated in 1980 by the
National Planning Department is expected to provide the basis for improvements
in sector-wide planning and policy-making, and recent pricing decisions have
gone a considerable way towards providing the correct signals for regulating
consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers (primarily
foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new" crude have been raised to
levels which should provide adequate production incentives, and the retail
prices of petroleum products, while still below international levels, have
been increased substantially in excess of world oil price rises. The Govern-
ment has committed itself to raise energy prices to equivalent international



levels as rapidly as politically and economically possible, and a least cost
energy investment program is being prepared. Between October 1978 and October
1980, the price of regular gasoline (less than 80 octane) was raised by 125%,
from US$0.40 to US$0.90 per gallon.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate service could
become a constraint on economic growth, particularly that resulting from
development of the country's vast coal reserves and from agriculture.
The State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance,
rehabilitation. The authorities have begun to take steps to improve the
country's infrastructure and PIN assigns an important share of future invest-
ments to the sector. There is, however, a need for more efficient planning
to ensure that only least cost investments are carried out and that a sound
policy framework for the sector is established to deal effectively with the
problems of intermodal coordination and energy conservation in line with the
Government's energy objectives.
Investment and Its Financing
16.       A substantial increase and redirection of public sector investment
will be required in the next several years to carry out the development
strategy outlined in the PIN. Over the 1980-85 period, such investment is
expected to increase by about 12% p.a. in real terms. The energy, transpor-
tation and industrial (including mining) sectors are expected to account for
the bulk (60%) of this investment; however, sizeable real increases in invest-
ment are also expected in the nutrition and health, small scale agriculture
and industry, water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public
fixed investment is projected to average 9.2% of GDP during the 1980-85
period, and is expected to total Col$1,716 billion (US$22,260 million).
Private investment will have to increase also during this period to provide
the goods and services required by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobilization
effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax system
(excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign exchange
holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be increased through
new taxes and better tax administration and the charges levied for public
services will have to be raised substantially in real terms.  Since this effort
is expected to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are good and significant
advances in economic welfare are anticipated. The urgent need to relieve the
pressure on aggregate demand arising from the recent growth of foreign exchange
earnings and the necessity to increase rapidly imports to develop the country's
resource potential and restore higher economic growth requires a turnaround
in the balance of payments from a current account surplus of US$596 million



-7-
(2.2% of GDP) registered in 1979 to a current account deficit projected to
average US$1,170 million, over the 1980-85 period, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP.
By the end of this period, net official international reserves would have
fallen to a level of about five months imports of goods and services (a level
which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's credit-
worthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real
GDP of 5.5% during this period. Beyond 1985, the current account deficit
should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal)
and a levelling-off of imports. The current account deficit would fall to 2%
of GDP in 1987 and to 1% by 1990. It is expected, therefore, that the economy
will be able to achieve real GDP growth averaging about 5.5% per annum during
the 1980-85 period. To reach this level of growth, gross domestic investment
will have to expand to about 24% of GDP, up from 18% in the early 1970s and
21% in recent years, and to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebted-
ness, gross national savings would need to average about 21% of GDP. This is
about the same level of savings achieved in 1978-79, when the terms-of-trade
gains from the coffee boom raised the savings coefficient, but above the level
achieved in the early 1970s.
19.       Gross external capital requirements (net of reserve drawdown) are
projected to total US$10.0 billion in current prices for the 1980-85 period,
for an annual average requirement of US$1,670 million. About 31% of this
amount will be required annually for debt amortization and the rest to
cover current account deficits. Multilateral and bilateral agencies are
expected to provide 40% of these requirements, 48% is expected to come from
foreign suppliers and financial institutions and the balance should come from
private foreign investment. At the end of 1979, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$3.4 billion,
equivalent to 12% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was 25%.
Reflecting the recently increased lending by the Bank and the decline by
bilateral sources, this share is expected to increase to about 30% in 1983,
before falling to about 25% in 1987. The debt service ratio at end of 1979
was 12% and is expected to climb to 17% by 1985, peak at about 18% in the
early 1990s and then decline gradually. The World Bank's share in public debt
service is expected to rise to about 24% in 1985 from about 13% in 1979. With
continued sound economic and financial management, Colombia is expected to
maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the 1980-1990 period.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 92nd to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,896.8 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount the Bank held, as of December 31, 1980, US$2,184.4
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 54 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-77
disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased sharply to US$138 million
in 1979 and to US$215 million in 1980. The improved performance of social



- 8 -
sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual
containment of inflationary pressures which should allow relaxation of fiscal
restraint and the recent Bank lending for infrastructure projects, all point
to higher levels of disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and
underwriting commitments of US$63.1 million in 25 enterprises and, as of
December 31, 1980, it held US$17.6 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of December 31,
1980. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the 34 ongoing
projects.
21.       In response to the priority objectives established by successive
Governments (self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved
income distribution), since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become increas-
ingly diversified and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs
and activities which emphasized social as well as economic benefits. All
three loans for education have been made during this period, and so have
twelve of the fourteen loans for industry, eleven of the thirteen agricultural
loans, one loan for a nutrition project, two loans for urban development
projects and all nine loans for water supply and sewerage. During the same
period, seventeen loans were made in the power and transport sectors, while
before 1966, twenty-two out of a total of twenty-five loans were made to
these sectors.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY80 consisted of two loans for power
generation and distribution projects, and one each for a nickel project,
telecommunications, and credit to small-scale industry and to development
finance companies for medium- and large-scale industry, totalling US$518.0
million equivalent. In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the
FY81 program includes already approved loans for hydro power development,
rural roads and irrigation rehabilitation, and proposed loans for further
hydro power development and railways. Work is also under way on projects for
petroleum development and mining, land settlement, rural development, ports,
highways, oil refining, electric power, agro-industries, fertilizers, water
supply and sewerage, urban development, rural education and environmental
improvement, for possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the
next two years.
23.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy as outlined in the PIN (paragraphs 12 through 15). To
help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the
proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist the
development of coal mines which hold potential in helping Colombia meet part
of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. In support of the
Government's objective to increase the supply and the recovery of domestic
petroleum, the Bank proposes to finance further petroleum projects and, for
the first time, become involved in projects which promote the efficient
processing of hydrocarbons. Bank financing in the energy sector would also
assist in strengthening major institutions and in mobilizing external



- 9 -
finance as some of the projects would require co-financing. Other future
loans would finance agriculture and industry to support the Government in
its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to
increase and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives would be
the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure. In this context, the
Bank is assisting the Government in preparing a highway paving and rehabilita-
tion program in support of the increasing interregional flow of goods and
services. Other loans under preparation for ports and railroads are aimed at
helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional exports and the
imported inputs on which the modern sector of its economy relies for expansion.
Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of the Government's
efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population. Lending for urban
development and slum improvement, rural electrification, rural development,
land settlement, water supply and sewerage, irrigation, rural education, and
environmental improvement projects is principally designed to improve the
standard of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total external
financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since
then to approximately 50% for the 1976-79 period and it is expected that
during the period 1980-85 will decline further to about 35% of external
capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to
social projects and has financed projects in low cost housing, urban and
rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural
electrification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to
assist Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the
activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment.
USAID has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm
development, but is phasing out its aid program in Colombia. The Governments
of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also
provided concessional financing for basic needs and regional integration
projects.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER REQUIREMENTS
Energy Resources and Requirements
25.       Colombia is endowed with substantial primary energy resources
(hydropower, natural gas, petroleum and coal). Low-cost hydropower, with a
potential estimated at 93 GW, has been developed on a limited basis to date
(4 GW). Coal resources are believed to be considerable, with reserves ranging
from 10-40 billion metric tons of both thermal and coking coal, but explora-
tion has been insufficient. The coal deposits identified are reported to be of
very good quality, characterized by high caloric and low ash and sulfur content.
A relatively recent discovery of natural gas in the Guajira Peninsula, amounting
to 3.5 trillion cubic feet, has brought proven reserves to a level well above
4 trillion cubic feet. However, known reserves of crude oil have been falling for
several years and are estimated to last less than 12 years at present extraction
rates. Of the country's 13 sedimentary basins, few have been systematically



- 10 -
explored; thus, there is potential for new oil discoveries. To arrest the
declining self-sufficiency in energy (paragraph 14), the Government has
declared as a national priority the carrying out of necessary investments
to develop hydroelectric and coal resources, as well as intensifying petroleum
exploration and development. With assistance from the Bank, IDB, suppliers
and commercial banks, large energy undertakings are being, or are about to be
carried out that should increase the supply of domestically-based energy in
coming years, including the export of a portion of it.
The Power Market, Service Levels and Institutional Framework
26.       Electric power is the fastest-growing form of energy use in Colombia.
Its share of total energy consumption has risen from 6.5% in 1970 to 8.9% in
1978. Colombia's installed capacity at the end of 1980 was about 4,300 MW,
including captive plant (about 243 MW); hydro stations account for 68% of total
power generated. Since 1972, production of electricity has been growing at an
annual rate of 9.6%, i.e., one and a half times as fast as the growth rate of
GDP. Power sales have also been rising rapidly (9.3% per annum since 1972).
Annual per capita electricity generation in 1979 was about 735 kWh, which is
below the average for Latin America. Households (40% of the total), industry
(31%) and commerce (12%) are the major electricity users.
27.       About 54% of Colombia's 26.7 million population has electric power,
compared to 26% in 1950 and 45% in 1970. The urban population, comprising
about 68% of the population, has greater access to electricity. In 1976,
for example, 90% of households in large cities (population of 50,000 or more)
had electrical service while in rural towns (population between 500-2,500) the
corresponding figure was 36%; in other rural areas, 13% (paragraph 35).
28.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy is charged with formulating
national policy for power generation, transmission and distribution. In
defining investment priorities, it shares responsibility with the National
Planning Department (DNP) and Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA), a generating
and transmission company, of which the shareholders are the largest municipal
power companies and the Government-owned national power companies. 1/ ISA
defines the generation and transmission expansion program for the intercon-
nected system; after approval by DNP, this becomes the National Power Expansion
Program. Public utility tariffs are regulated by the Junta Nacional de Tarifas
de Servicios Publicos (JNT) in DNP. JNT, which was established in the late
sixties with Bank support, has the power to approve requests from the power
companies for tariff increases.
1/   Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM), Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
(EEEB), Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA), Corporacion
Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca (CVC), and Instituto Colombiano
de Energia Electrica (ICEL).



- 11 -
Power Development and Its Financing
29.       To meet rapidly increasing demand, the Colombian power sector has
developed steadily. Between 1950-1978 installed generating capacity was
raised by 3,700 MW or about sixteenfold, providing electricity service to a
further 11.4 million people. The task of interconnecting the country's
regional systems to form an integrated national network is nearing completion
(paragraph 42). A substantial part of this expansion was financed with
internal cash generation (in the case of the large municipal companies,
about 40% of total capital outlays) and with contributions from the National
Treasury, chiefly to ICEL, CVC and CORELCA. In the past, the Bank and IDB
were the main sources of foreign financing for the power sector. In recent
years, however, suppliers' credits and external commercial borrowings have
provided well over half of external financing requirements.
30.       During 1971-74, power rate adjustments lagged behind cost increases
and, consequently, the companies' finances deteriorated, construction of needed
works was delayed and the operating efficiency of the companies suffered.
However, investment outlays have picked up sharply since 1977, when a program
of tariff increases was initiated to generate funds needed to support planned
expansion, but not rapidly enough to prevent the heavy power rationing being
experienced at the present time (paragraph 31). With encouragement from the
Government, the power companies are adjusting tariffs as necessary to generate
sufficient resources for investment. Increases on the order of 40% (an
estimated 20% in real terms) are being effected in most of the sector companies
for this year. To complement this effort, and in view of the high priority
attached by the Government to power investments as part of the effort to develop
a domestically-based energy balance, a financing facility, to help provide part
of local currency requirements for these investments, is being established.
Power Requirements, Proposed Investments and Long-Term Planning
31.       As stated, the effects of underinvestment during the 1970s are being
felt sharply. In the Central Interconnected System (EEEB, CVC, EPM, and
ICEL), electricity is being rationed an average of 4 hours a day. The total
1981 shortfall is projected at 1,200 GWh, with varying degrees of serious
shortages expected to persist until San Carlos I (Loan 1582-CO) begins to
generate in 1983. The Colombian authorities are well aware of the impact of
power rationing on economic activity, employment and welfare. To catch up
with rising power requirements and to substitute electricity for more costly
forms of energy, effective generating capacity is to be increased by 175%, to
about 10,500 MW, by 1988. Of this total, about 3,700 MW are under construction.
32.       In line with the above, investments in generation, transmission and
distribution through 1990 are expected to amount to about US$16 billion in
current prices, of which some 60% would be foreign exchange. Thus, external
financing on the order of about US$900 million equivalent on average per
annum, in nominal terms, would be required, a major share of which is expected
to come from foreign capital markets.



- 12 -
33.       In anticipation of the immense task ahead, ISA and its shareholders
have completed a Master Plan for generation and transmission facilities
through the year 2000, which is being supplemented by a Master Plan for
distribution covering the same period. This combined effort will not only
contribute to improved investment planning but also to better system design,
operation and maintenance in light of modern techniques, with a view toward
enhancing the quality and reliability of service to consumers at a reasonable
cost. Overall, the consolidated Master Plan is expected to provide a valuable
framework for long-range decisions on sector expansion, including rural
electrification, financing and pricing. The proposed project is based upon
the rural electrification portion of the Master Plan for distribution expansion
in the North Atlantic power system.
Rural Development and Electrification
34.       To achieve national integration, sustain growth and improve social
welfare, the PIN earmarks considerable resources for agroindustrial-based
regions, many of which are not yet well developed. It gives priority to the
extension of rural road networks, irrigation, farm inputs (including credit,
fertilizers, pesticides and extension services) and farm-product collection,
marketing and storage facilities. In the case of small towns and rural
villages, the priority is expansion of telecommunications and feeder road
links, water supply and sanitation, health, education and supply of electricity.
In support of this objective, there are 13 ongoing projects with Bank financing
(totalling US$386.2 million) providing agricultural and small-scale industrial
credit, extension services, land settlement, flood control, marketing, reforesta-
tion, water supply and sewerage, rural roads, electricity, health, nutrition,
education and telecommunications. Other Bank-financed projects also contribute
in one way or another. A portion of these programs are benefiting the North
Atlantic Region (paragraphs 36-38), such as the Cartagena Industrial Export
Processing Zone (Loan 1593-CO) and the Cartegena Urban Development Project
(Loan 1694-CO) which are expected to assist in increasing production among
small-scale producers and generate employment opportunities both in Cartagena
and outlying areas in the Department of Bolivar.
35.       With respect to rural electrification, the Government's objective is
to expand the coverage of this service from 13% to 27% of the rural population
by the mid-1980s. The PIN, therefore, allocates over US$500 million for this
purpose: (a) the rural electrification subproject of the Integrated Rural
Development Program, supported by the IDB, CIDA and the Bank (1352-CO), which
will ultimately provide 40,000 rural families with electricity connections of
which 12,000 have already been connected, (b) the ongoing ICEL project, partly
financed by IDB, to bring service to 140,000 rural households in 13 departments,
(c) a further ICEL project to expand transmission, subtransmission and distribu-
tion services in the underdeveloped national territories, (d) an electrification
program in the Department of Choco to provide facilities to 12 towns, (e) the
expansion of service to 9,000 rural families in the Department of Cundinamarca,
and (f) the proposed project. In addition, EEEB and EPM are extending
subtransmission and distribution facilities to rural areas in proximity
to their own markets. Finally, the Colombian Coffee Federation is financing
several rural electrification works in coffee-growing areas.



- 13 -
The North Atlantic Region
36.       Comprising seven departments and two island dependencies, the Region
contains about 12% of the national territory and an estimated 20% of the
country's population. It is bordered on the north and west by the Caribbean
Sea and on the south and east by Andean Mountain ranges. The Region exhibits
diverse features including semi-arid plains, savannahs, marshy lowlands,
mountains, valleys and forests. Weather patterns are also varied, although
tropical temperatures predominate. Colombia's main inland waterway, the
Magdalena River, flows northward through the Region, roughly dividing it in
half, and empties into the Caribbean at the port of Barranquilla. About 68%
of the estimated 5.3 million population lives in cities and large towns.
37.       Although economic growth in the North Atlantic Region has accelerated
over the last two decades at a rate faster than the national average (6.2%
compared with the national average of 5.5%, in real terms), the area remains
underdeveloped with high levels of poverty, underemployment and unemployment.
In 1975, the Region accounted for about 19% of national GDP, compared to the
Department of Antioquia, which contributed 14%, and the city of Bogota, 21%.
The ports of Barranquilla, Cartagena and Santa Marta are the nuclei of the
Region's industrial activity and employment opportunities and, consequently,
one-fourth of the total population resides there. However, the main economic
activity in the Region is agriculture which consists of large farms and
ranches as well as many thousands of small-holdings; the principal cash crops
are cotton, rice, African palm, sugar cane, fruit, corn and sorghum. In
addition, 35% of Colombia's livestock-raising is concentrated here, including
the production of an estimated one-fourth of the country's milk, and associated
products. However, the lack of adequate processing facilities (cotton and milk)
and refrigeration (milk and products) results in costly transport to a few urban
plants and tends to keep profitability low for most producers. The potential
of increasing substantially agricultural activity and productivity is evidenced
by the favorable soil conditions, climate and proximity to major transfer
points for domestic and external trade; moreover, less than 13% of the Region's
total estimated cultivable area is under production.
38.       Outside the departmental capital cities, economic and social infra-
structure is meager or non-existent. Electricity and telecommunications
reach only 6% of rural households. While data on water supply and sewerage,
and health facilities are not available, coverage is generally acknowledged to
be low. The rural population in this Region tends to live in small towns and
villages, travelling back and forth to the lands they work. Their farming
methods are usually the traditional ones handed down from generation to
generation of coastal families. In a typical rural center (population under
10,000), a family consists of six persons, three under age 15, with one and
one-half employed. Average household income is US$140 per month, including
agricultural self-production for family use. 1/ Cooking is done with firewood
and illumination provided by kerosene. Ice, for food preservation, is trans-
ported by truck to the village and is considered a necessary, regular purchase
1/   On the basis of a family of six people, a US$140 monthly income would
be equal to an annual per capita income of US$280.



- 14 -
by the villagers. Four percent of the families here own a motor vehicle. The
village has 20 commercial establishments and three agroindustrial concerns, as
well as five socially-oriented facilities (schools, church, etc.). There are
no telephones, no electricity services. The profile of this village is
characteristic of the 120 targeted to receive electricity supply under the
proposed project (paragraph 48).
The Borrower, CORELCA
39.       When CORELCA (a decentralized corporation under jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy) began operations in 1972, power generation,
transmission and distribution was supplied by eight local utilities correspond-
ing to the seven Departments of the Region (Electrificadoras of Atlantico,
Bolivar, Cesar, Cordoba, Guajira, Magdalena and Sucre) and the island dependen-
cies of San Andres and Providencia (Electrificadora of San Andres). At that
time, the North Atlantic Region was plagued by chronic shortages and unreliable
supply of electric energy provided by the local companies. These companies
were generally highly politicized and poorly run. Facilities constructed were
usually not maintained and, thus, in an advanced state of deterioration. Power
losses experienced by these companies ranged up to 57% of sales. During its
short period of operations, CORELCA has made remarkable inroads towards
overcoming the power problems of this Region, which depends entirely upon
thermal-based generating plants. Responsibility for regional generation
and transmission expansion was shifted from the Electrificadoras to CORELCA
and, in 1975, CORELCA acquired majority ownership of them. Based upon this,
CORELCA has been exerting increasing influence over the Electrificadoras,
which has improved their operating efficiency and administration, and CORELCA
proposes to help strengthen further their operations in future (Sections 3.02)
and 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition to providing incremental
electricity supply, in line with the National Power Expansion Program, CORELCA
has interconnected the systems of almost all its Electrificadoras and, to
achieve a less costly use of non-renewable fuels, it has prepared a program
whereby its subsidiaries would gradually replace generation from their old and
fuel-inefficient oil-fired plants with energy generated from CORELCA's more
economic, well-maintained facilities (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement
and Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). (CORELCA converted from
oil to natural gas in 1977-78, and in 1983 will begin substituting coal.) By
1983 CORELCA will be integrated into the national power grid by means of a
500 kV transmission line (Loan 1583-CO) which will enable substitution of
non-renewable generation fuels by hydro-based power from the Central System,
as well as provide thermal back-up to the predominantly hydro facilities in
that System.
40.       Energy sales in the CORELCA system are expected to increase from
2,115 GWh in 1979 to 4,065 GWh in 1983 (including new industrial and mining
requirements of 693 GWh in 1983), 1/ an average annual growth rate of about
17.7%. In order to meet requirements up to year 1982, CORELCA commissioned
in 1980 213 MW of additional thermal units at Barranquilla and Cartagena, is
1/   Without these industrial loads comprising the mining operations of
Cerro Matoso (nickel) and El Cerrejon (coal), and petrochemical instal-
lations, average annual growth would be about 12%, which is considered
reasonable in light of the experience during 1972-80.



- 15 -
currently installing a 157 MW thermal station (coal-fired) at El Cerrejon, and
is planning to increase the El Cerrejon power station by a further 157 MW in
the near future. In addition, CORELCA is participating in ISA's hydroelectric
projects (San Carlos I and II, and Jaguas). In parallel with its generation
expansion, CORELCA plans to extend its existing transmission network and to
assist its subsidiaries in expanding their subtransmission and distribution
systems.
41.        CORELCA's management staff is highly dedicated and capable.  In less
than nine years, the company has constructed 500 MW of thermal generating
plant, about 500 km of transmission lines and several substations. Of the
total 373,000 electricity subscribers in the Region, 39% have received connec-
tions as a result of the increased capacity installed by CORELCA. These new
consumers represent 130,000 households, and 500 industrial and commercial
enterprises. Approximately 67% of this expansion has been concentrated in the
large urban areas, principally the Departments' capital cities. In total, 74%
of the Regional population in urban centers has electricity services. However,
as mentioned previously, the coverage in rural areas is only about 6%. Under
the proposed project, the first phase of the 15-year village electrification
program, CORELCA would provide reliable electricity services to 43,000 new
subscribers and consumers with existing but extremely precarious supply,
representing in total 258,000 direct beneficiaries, or 15% of the Region's
rural population.
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
42.        Since 1950, the Bank has supported Colombia's power sector with
loans totalling US$979 million which have assisted the expansion of generating
capacity, and transmission and distribution facilities in the systems serving
Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Manizales, including expan-
sion of electricity distribution to low income areas (874-CO, 1973; 1807-CO,
1980; and 1868-CO, 1980). The Bogota Power Distribution Project (1807-CO;
US$87 million) is the first Bank loan to Colombia to support exclusively
distribution expansion and, in addition to other beneficiaries, would directly
benefit about 340,000 lower income consumers. In addition, the Bank has
supported rural electrification under 246-CO (1960) and 313-CO (1962) and
under the ongoing Integrated Rural Development Project (1352-CO, 1977). The
most recent loans included the 500-kV Interconnection Line (1583-CO, 1978)
and, for hydro power generation, San Carlos I and II (Loans 1582-CO, 1978;
1725-CO, 1979), Mesitas (1628-CO, 1979), Guadalupe IV (1868-CO, 1980) and
Playas (1953-CO, 1981), which would, respectively, complete the task of
interconnecting the country's regional power systems begun under 575-CO
(1968), and add 2,253 MW of capacity to the national interconnected system.
Taken together, the abovementioned projects reflect the Bank's participation
in all phases of power development in Colombia, from the planning stage
through financing and construction of generation and transmission facilities,
to delivery of service to the final consumer.
43.        Past Bank lending to Colombia's power sector has been found gen-
erally successful in several OED reports. For instance, the most recent
report, "Power Interconnection (Loan 575-CO) and Chivor Hydroelectric Projects
(Loan 681-CO)" (Report No. 2720, October 29, 1979), commented upon the Bank's



- 16 -
participation in Colombia's successful effort to evolve a stronger and more
efficient power sector organization. Through the creation of ISA in conjunc-
tion with these projects, and the steps taken to overcome financial and
institutional difficulties, real progress was made toward more coordinated
sector development. Despite implementation delays and increased costs, both
projects were successfully implemented. Also, the report entitled "Bank
Operations in Colombia, an Evaluation" (Report No. Z-18) of May 25, 1972,
concluded that Bank financing was successful in assisting the power companies
to develop hydroelectric plants at lower unit cost than they otherwise would
have been able to do. In turn, this permitted greater urban coverage as well
as cheaper and more reliable electricity supply to industry. The report
commended Bank efforts in the establishment of JNT and the central intercon-
nected system, which facilitated further power sector development. Among other
things, the report recommended that in the future the Bank pay increased
attention to the companies' financial planning, tariff structures, distribu-
tion programs and energy losses. These points have been addressed under the
aforementioned recent loans, which were the first Bank operations in the power
sector after late 1972 (paragraph 30). Complementary measures are provided
for under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
44.       The project was prepared by CORELCA, with the assistance of consultants.
It was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Colombia in November/December
1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during the week of April 13,
1981, with a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Armando Olarte, Chief of External
Debt Division, Ministry of Finance, and Dr. Jacobo Acosta, General Manager of
CORELCA. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3395b-CO of May 6, 1981) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
45.       The project, representing the first Bank loan to CORELCA, would
support Government efforts to integrate the North Atlantic rural population
into the modern economy by provision of basic infrastructure. Access to
electricity services would be expanded and the reliability and efficiency
of electricity supply would be improved. Concommitant with this, the project
would assist in replacing intermittant and costly diesel-based generation, in
strengthening further CORELCA's operations, and those of its subsidiary
Electrificadoras. Gradual improvements in the financial capability of the
North Atlantic power system is also provided for in the project which, in
turn, is expected to enable the bringing of electric service to a higher
proportion of the system's population at reasonable cost.
CORELCA's Village Electrification Program and the Project
46.       CORELCA has identified considerable scope for expanding electricity
services to rural areas since rural dwellers in this part of Colombia tend to
live in villages instead of being dispersed throughout the countryside. Based
upon this, the company has prepared a 15-year Village Electrification Program



- 17 -
(1981-99) that would ultimately bring electricity to agroindustrial and rural
commercial enterprises, and about 215,000 households (representing 1.4 million
people) by installing distribution networks in villages for the first time,
and linking these networks with CORELCA's transmission system; rehabilitating
deteriorated networks and, where justified, connecting them to the interconnected
Regional system; and installing of local generation units and distribution systems
in villages too distant from transmission lines to justify interconnection.
47.        CORELCA's 1981-85 schedule of rural works consists of the subprojects
with the highest return on investment, based upon the assumption that each
Department should be represented in the project for institution-building
purposes and that absorptive capacity will have to be created in the system
before a wider and larger rural electrification program can be undertaken.
The subprojects, together with the training and study described below, comprise
the proposed project.
48.        Subprojects.  These are:
(a) extension of existing transmission and subtransmission
facilities to 120 villages presently without service, and
construction of distribution networks;
(b) rehabilitation of seriously deficient and deteriorating
distribution networks in six small towns and villages; and
(c) interconnection with the regional power system of 25 small
towns that have poor service from costly, local diesel units
(totalling 45 MW) by extending existing transmission lines.
These works would extend and improve service to 43,000 households (plus
enable 14,000 future connections) and to an agro-industrial load of about
33 MW. The subprojects would cover all seven Departments and San Andres
Island. Upon completion of the subtransmission and distribution facilities,
they would be transferred to each of the Electrificadoras concerned (50% as an
equity contribution from CORELCA and 50% as a long-term loan). Provision for
these transfers, as well as for the Electrificadoras participation in the
project (paragraph 57) and measures to strengthen their operations and finances
would be made in Subsidiary Agreements to be finalized between CORELCA and
each of the Electrificadoras prior to loan effectiveness (Section 3.02 and
8.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Training Center.  A training center would be established for the
technical personnel of CORELCA and its Electrificadoras, and would provide
courses for about 1,500 existing and new staff, who would receive an estimated
1,800 man-months of training per year. The project would provide teaching
and laboratory equipment, training specialists and scholarships.
50.       Study.  A study would be carried out, by October 30, 1982, to identify
the causes of distribution losses in the Electrificadoras' distribution
systems (technical losses, billing deficiencies and thefts), and recommend a
program, to be carried out under CORELCA's guidance, to reduce losses.



- 18 -
Cost and Financing
51.       Total project cost is estimated at US$68.7 million, of which US$36
million, or 52%, correspond to the foreign exchange component. Project costs
are based upon estimates prepared by CORELCA and include physical contingencies
amounting to approximately 15% and price contingencies amounting to about 26%
of base cost (Loan and Project Summary). Consultant services for supervision
of construction are estimated at an average of US$2,100 per man-month for
senior staff and US$700 per man-month for support staff. (These averages
include overheads, benefits and fee). All such services would be provided by
consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to CORELCA and the Bank (Section 3.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
52.       The proposed loan of US$36 million represents 52% of total project
cost and would finance 100% of the total foreign component of the project.
The Government's contribution of US$13.7 million would finance 20% of project
cost, reflecting the priority it attaches to this project. The balance
of the financing would be provided by CORELCA (US$3.5 million, or 5% of total
cost), the Electrificadoras (US$3.5 million, or 5%) and the beneficiaries
(US$12.0 million, or 18%). CORELCA's contribution would cover mainly project
administration and training. In line with the results of an income study
carried out during project preparation, the individual beneficiaries' contri-
butions would be based upon ability to pay, ranging from 10% of the cost of
connection for the lowest income group to more than 100% for agroindustrial
consumers. Payment would be in the form of a 30% downpayment, with the
remainder billed over a 7-year period. (At the lowest end of the scale, this
would amount to a monthly payment of about US$0.80, with monthly charges for
electricity consumption estimated at US$1.14, exclusive of savings from
kerosene and ice purchases.) The Electrificadoras' financial projections
indicate that, with the approved schedule of tariff adjustments (paragraph
57), their portions of project cost would be generated from operations, as
would the bridge financing needed to cover the installment payments of the
beneficiaries.
Finances
53.       Because CORELCA's system depends entirely on thermal generation,
its operating costs are substantially higher than other suppliers in Colombia,
who generate almost 85% of their power in hydroelectric plants. While CORELCA's
tariffs have been generally the highest in the country, they have been insuffi-
cient to cover fully its operating costs. Additionally, CORELCA has a heavy
debt service burden, resulting from its large investment program over the past
8 years, the foreign cost of which has been financed mainly by suppliers.
This has called for financial assistance from the Government in the form of
price subsidies for fuel CORELCA buys and budgetary transfers for investment
and debt service. It is the objective of the Government to phase out gradually
this type of support and to make CORELCA financially self-sufficient.



19 -
54.       The company's 1980-86 investment program amounts to US$1,665 million,
of which US$1,309 million pertain to the following: proposed project (4% of
total investments), generation expansion (51O), the second phase of the
Village Electrification Program (3%), studies (1%), transmission facilities
(12%) and interest during construction (6%). The US$356 million balance
represents mainly CORELCA's investments in ISA (15%) and increased working
capital requirements (6%). The proposed loan represents 2% of total investment
requirements over the period, with the remainder coming from mainly commercial
sources (58%), the national budget and user contributions (34%) and internal
cash generation (6%). The influence of the increasing natural gas price in
its operating costs would become less important starting from the end of 1982
as a result of the commissioning of the coal-based Cerrejon plant and the
planned conversion of its other plants to coal-fired. Furthermore, when the
interconnection is completed in 1983, CORELCA will buy cheaper hydro electri-
city from the Central Power System.
55.       Based on the above, and tariff adjustments already enacted for 1981
as well as those planned for 1982-83, CORELCA's finances show a gradually
improving situation. For 1981 and 1982, the yearly average tariff increase
would be in excess of 40%, i.e., more than 20% in real terms. On this basis,
CORELCA would achieve rates of return on fully revalued assets of 3.5% in 1981,
7.5% in 1982 and 11% in 1983 and annually thereafter (Section 5.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement and Section 3.06 of the draft Guarantee Agreement), compared to
the agreed San Carlos targets (1725-CO) of 6% in 1981, 7% in 1982 and 9% in
1983 and thereafter. 1/ Because of uncertainty about the assumed value of its
assets, and those of the Electrificadoras, an asset revaluation study would be
carried out by June 30, 1982, and, if advisable, the rates of return revised
in agreement with the Bank (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). CORELCA
would attain a debt service coverage of not less than 1.1 in 1982 and 1.3 in
1983 and thereafter (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). Nevertheless,
CORELCA would continue to require financial support from the Government during
the project execution period (1980-85) because it would be able to generate
only a modest portion of its investment requirements (including increases in
working capital). The Government, therefore, has undertaken to ensure that
the required funds would be made available to CORELCA in a timely manner
(Sections 2.02 and 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Prior to loan
effectiveness, CORELCA would make satisfactory arrangements for the financing
it would require during 1981 and 1982 (Section 8.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Lastly, to ensure adherence to the financing plan as well as
to the national least-cost power expansion program, until project completion,
CORELCA has agreed not to undertake, without prior concurrence of the Bank,
investments in any one year not related to its power operations nor those
that would exceed in aggregate 1% of the value of its net fixed assets in
operation other than for: (a) the proposed project, (b) generation expansion
included in the national expansion program, provided that adequate financing
would be available; and (c) the balance of items included in its agreed
1981-85 program of investments (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
1/   The rates of return achieved in 1978 and 1979 were consistent with the
prior agreements. However, in 1980 CORELCA achieved only 2.2% instead of
the 5% covenanted, principally because the Electrificadoras tariffs were
not increased in line with CORELCA's authorized increase; measures are
being taken to avoid recurrence of this problem in future (paragraph 39).



- 20 -
56.       CORELCA's accounts receivable from energy sales have been growing
continuously. As of December 31, 1979, they amounted to Col$434 million
equivalent to about four months' billings, and totalling about Col$617 million
by mid-November 1980. This is a direct result of the Electrificadoras' increas-
ing accounts receivable from final consumers (mainly Government and municipal
dependencies) whose outstanding balance on December 31, 1979, amounted to
Col$ 864 million, increasing to Col$1.158 million (US$23.2 million) by September
1980. Corrective actions have been discussed with the Government, which has
agreed to take measures to overcome the problem in accordance with a program
CORELCA would prepare, by August 31, 1981, for this purpose (Section 5.09 of
the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.05 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Also, CORELCA will engage the services of independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank to audit annually its accounts and those of the Electrificadoras
(Sections 3.02 and 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The Electrificadoras' financial situation varies from one to another
but is, in general, poor. (Four of the eight Electrificadoras have operating
losses.) The main reasons for this are tariffs which are too
low to cover operating costs, high distribution losses (paragraph 39), inade-
quate billing systems, increasing accounts receivable from energy sales, and
administrative and managerial systems that require further strengthening. To
ensure that the operations and finances of the Electrificadoras gradually
improve to acceptable levels, the aforementioned Subsidiary Agreements would
provide suitable performance targets. A tariff program that would produce a
cumulative increase of 40% over the 1980 average rate is already in effect.
In addition, CORELCA would continue to assist the Electrificadoras to enhance
their institutional capability. A study to be prepared by consultants
already selected by CORELCA for this purpose would contribute to this effort
(Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement, Implementation and Disbursements
58.       All the items to be financed by the proposed loan (except consult-
ing services) would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB)
under Bank guidelines. Colombian manufacturers would receive a margin of
preference of 15% or the applicable import duties, whichever is the lower, for
purposes of bid evaluation. The cost estimate assumes that local manufacturers
would be able to supply some items required for the project, the cost of which
is estimated not to exceed US$4 million equivalent. Project works would begin
in June 1981 and be completed by December 31, 1985.
59.       Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 100% of foreign expenditures
for imported materials and equipment and 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally-
produced materials (excluding poles) and equipment aggregating up to US$34.1
million; (b) 100% of expenditures for consultants for the losses study; (c) 50%
of expenditures for consultants for project supervision; and (d) 100% of
foreign expenditures for training equipment and materials, consultants and
scholarships. Disbursements for the training component would be contingent
upon defining the terms and conditions under which the training center would
operate, and appointing a Board of Directors and Managing Director for it
(Schedule I, paragraph 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
Benefits and Risks
60.       The project would have considerable impact on vast rural areas
of Colombia's underdeveloped north coastal region. The availability of
reliable electric energy would facilitate increased farm activity, agroindustry
and commerce, as well as enhance the standard of living of the rural population
in the project villages. Moreover, the project is expected to further Govern-
ment efforts to strengthen the institutional and financial capability of the
power companies serving the Region which would, in turn, improve the quality
of services and scope of coverage.
61.        Calculation of the economic return of village electrification
projects, in which there is an important poverty component, requires strong,
often arbitrary assumptions, since it is difficult to assess the value of the
benefits derived by the population from the improvements. As a proxy, there-
fore, a return on investment was calculated as the discount rate at which
incremental revenues and associated costs (capital, and operating and main-
tenance costs related to the project) meet. On this basis the ineremental revenues
associated with the project calculated at the tariffs prevailing after the 1981
increases, yield a rate of return of 13.3%, which compares favorably with the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Colombia. This calculation omits the
effects of reliable electricity supply on nutrition, employment, health, educa-
tion and public safety which are particularly difficult to quantify. Moreover,
it may further understate the economic benefits of the project because regulated
tariffs do not usually reflect in full the consumers' willingness to pay.
62.       There are no special risks associated with execution of the project
works. Construction delays are not expected since the work schedules have been
prepared on the basis of the normal rate of progress attained by CORELCA on similar
projects.
Ecology
63.       CORELCA has carried out previous projects with due regard to environ-
mental protection and safety considerations. Under the proposed project, the
works will be carried out in a like manner.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between CORELCA and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for the Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
65.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that satisfactory
Subsidiary Agreements with the Electrificadoras would be finalized (paragraph
48), and that arrangements would be made for CORELCA's 1981-82 financing
requirements (paragraph 55).



- 22 -
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 5, 1981



AOI  I
-23-                                                  Page 1 of 5
COLE8IA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                     REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER.ACFS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XM-)                                                       _MST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1138.9
AGRICULTURAL     230.6                                MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOlE           MIDDLE INCOFF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA . CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 250.0       400.0    1010.0                   1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     491.0       606.0     700.0                   1055.9                   1641..4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     15.8        21. 3     25.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48.2        59.8      68.3                     63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      39.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        57.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2070
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. 10.                       14.0        19.0      22.0                     28. 1                    77.2
PER SQ. 1N. AGRICULTURAL LAND     71.0        93.0     111.0                     81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.0        46.8      40.7                     41.4                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                         50.0        50.5      56.3                     54.7                     61. 1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         2.7       3.0                      3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.1         3.0       2.3                      2. 7                     1.6
UNRAN                              6. OjC      5. 2      3.9                     4. 1                      3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.0        37.0      31.0                     34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     14.0        10.0       8.0                      8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3. 2        3.2       1.8                      2.5                      1. 5
FANILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       115. 4    142. 0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..      35.9
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.0        99.0     120.0                    106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   97.0        88.0     102.0                    107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          54.0        48.0      52.0                    65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        24.0      26.0                     33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     17.0        13.0       9.0                     8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    53.0         58.5      62.0                     63.1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        98. OJd     *.                     66. 5                    55. 9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        63.0      64.0                    65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..      73. 0                   80. 4
RURAL                               ..          ..      46.0                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TQTAL                               *        47.0       48.0                    62.3
URBAN                               ..        75.0      73.0                     79.4
RURAL                               S. 8.0              13.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2400.0      2170.0    1970.0                  1849.2                    1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3)40.0      2040.0    1250.0                   1227. 5                   929.4
POPUIATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            363.0       449.0     620.0                   480.3                     289.7
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADNISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        23.0      25.0                      ..                      17. 0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               .-         5. 7/a
URBAN                               ..         5 5jd
RURAL                               ..         5.9/d
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOH
TOTAL                               ..         1. 8/d
URBAN                               ..         1. 6       *.
RURAL                               *          2. 4/d     ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DW1ELLINGS)
TOTAL                             47.0/e      58. I/d
URBAN                             83. oZe     87. /d      .
RURAL                              8.O/e      13.2/d      .



Annex I
-24-                                                      Page 2 of 5
^CLOMBIA - SCCAL .ND;CAT0RS 2ATA 3NEFT
COLOMBIA                   -   REFERENCE GROLPS    NTrO A'E?AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTZ)
MOST RECENT                MIDDLE :NCOME             M'DDLE t7iCCME
1960  'b    1970 /b ESTfLMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA a CAR'.IBEAtl               EURCPF
EDUCATION
A.DJSTED ENROL'tE'.T RAT'OS
FRDIARY:      TOTAL                   77.          103.0      .03. 0                       99. 7                      105.9
YALE                    i7. 0       i01.0       .00. 0                     101.0                        109.3
FEMALE                  77.0 1O05.0            .05. 0                       99.4                        103.0
iECONDARY:   TOTAL                    12.0          24.0       39. 7                       34.                         64. 0
MALE                    13.0         24.0         9.0                       33. 5                        71. 1
FEMALE                  11.0         24. 0       40.0                       34.7                      * 56. 9
OCA0TIONAL E:NROL. ( OF SECONDARY)  31. 2,             21. 0      17.0                       38.2                         28.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RAT.O
PRDtARY                               38.0          38.0       30.0                        30. 5                       29.
SECONDARY                             11.0          17. 0       19.0                       14.5                        26. 1
ADUILT LITERACY RATE !PERCENT)           63. 2          3. 3      91. 2                          36.3
:ONSL'7PT:ON
?ASSENGER CARS PER ,.OESAND
3PFULACION                             7-           11. 3      17..                        .3.0                        ? .i
RADID RECEI'ERS ?ER -HOUSAND
POPULA-ION                           :_4.0         100.0      :07.7                      2.5.3                        '2. 2
TV llGEIVERS PER THOUSAND
?OPULATICN                             9.0          3 7. o     64. 7                       94. 2                      .   5. i
NEWS?APER X-DA;LY SENERAL
:NTER-EST") _IRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     56. 0           *.        59.0                       63. 3                       93. n
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..                ..         7. 1                        ..
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         4726.5        6353. 3    8174.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      18.9          24.6       25.0                        22.2                        30.4
AGRICULTIURE (PERCENT)                51.4          37.9       30.0                        37.1                        37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    19.2          21.0       23.0                        23.5                        29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    30.6         29.7        29.7                       31.5                         40.9
MALE                                     49.8         44.9        44.7                       48.9                         55.9
FEMALE                                   11.6         14.6        14.6                       14. 0                       26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.6           1. 7       1.4                         1.4                         1. r
I1COME DISTRIBL'TION
PERCEN'T OF PRIVATE INCGME
RECEIVED 3Y
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT SF EOUSEHOLDS   41.2/e.a          31.9          *
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67. 7/eg,    60. 1              ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2. 1/e.B          3. 5         ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF EOUSEHOLDS    6. 8/e.g         10. 1/       .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ASSOLUTZ NOVUERTY INCOME
LEVEL ("SS ?ER CAPITA)
O'R3AN                                   ..           ..      214. 0
RURAL                                   ..            ..      197.0                      190.d.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..      267.0                       474.0
RURAL                                    ..           ..      122.0                      332.5                        385.8
ESTIMATED POP'JLATION BELOW ABSOLLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ' '                   34. 
RURAL                                   ..            .          ..
Not available
NoE applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of courtries
among che indicacors depends on availability of data and is not aniform.
L    U nless otherwise noced, data !or 1960 refer co an" year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971: and for Most Recent Esat.ace, between 1974 and 1978.
ic   1951-i4;  ,d :373;   a :964:  /f -icludirg  teacner training at the third Level;  /a Oconomicallv acttve
po!oclat ion.
Most :ecent estimate of GNP per zapita is for 1979.
October. 1980



-25-
ANEE I
Page 3 of
DEFIRMlIMIS CF StOl ~IAI  IChRt
Note.o  Altfhoogf  the dat- redao    tesoee _srel  ldedte _tauhriato   odtl a  s,I  aoldaash  ttlthtthysa   oehhftt
eatltalt craptabe trooe o    th laSc of. ttoadiloel  -detstln   cod  ctsoepte  -seed ht            Cdff..   .I d...rthc.ttt...soletiogte. dr.Te  aaae
thebes, ucetol t  describe otdet  or eagootola .ftdlceteteI.sda,  eel oh... ar.ert  cett f.   ...ot dlfthtat..a h.t,s  court, the.1.,I - h.h         I.    ..
T1 hetftat    roeaer1rtso'.uryI                       toctEsPshlectcootttyet               dld(  I- soooytgrupltAtmehas hidlobEta-tg   tt~ ..ceetcaet.          co..  rrrdf
of te aujeo  coetfi    eoetfo    a ld huto  201 Espott..ta              .  .e.op abate _tfddi  lrom   let  Ot h              atdMidle  ea     ohea  'h,-sa  of erosget
etLt-otr   tletalCtterrtoogop  aeteeese   r   eoalr   rhha  art                                               Rel    set   o   ah  le~C..d foatot as  ahoe  otfy be  at_
LANTO AREA lthouccslaq.Ir.)                                                                    ooaiehrPoseo    ooc  t  I` ffd  he  ,ea  05 7Ipt-t  hag9 Fly
Toed  - Tta  surfce _coa cfrhao   I..d coc  ad lolaed saea                                     iteC   qehffd   te    sdla -hool at o                  atre, leel
ZAgefootloal.  -   lEa.     farcloaI.. . area ocd hatrtl   eprccey                         Populceice yetL Lteso  Paet-Peua  o  dloided by esbat of er.Ctiithg
fee croPs, P-a--re..eckee  cdIk klther    leeo  to  isa Icllo-c; 191? data                  sale ce  fecae  caI at  sece, p-cl Ice1 ..r..., cod ae..           casi eases
Poolhie  arfoahlte  -soal obee. cad toe1 -   pecao   feca.1
GNP? PER CAPITd (lull)   GNO   e   a  e   s  soe   ttteeeee  pet,t., oal-                       oe . ad rotel Ifafd by toeio  reprte  sobeo                      !eplec  bad
toce   oac   oodeha c   etda .   eI   laeb Aleha   (1911-79 bhale); 1960,            avalble so poblic aed PrIIvt  geer.  ae   prafe  hsia                       e
19Th, aod         I.dt.                                                                       hahilhsal-i-     eea    tstel  ar  ctaletmatstraoaeY acaffe
hr at leac  dee pytIIe.  hEahfebaoa poc_ pt-'ipehethaip                 erstaha
faiRlY CPNStRfTIONi PER CAPITA - Aouco.  coo-upthoe of c --col avetg9y (toal                    tare a-  hot ioleed    Rra IbsheI.,  -t-eee  hetlode bhfe  ad d.a
ao-d    ot,ptoae  ttsa   a   o   yr-,tcerelgohra   I-e--                                      ce..eso   perasoeytafe  by *physiotce  (hoe by a aedleit                   asct
loec.                                                                                         Ifu1ed ecoge of medical fcrflhela..  foe  atteet l pseeeeslc oat
t.L. iorlode Wilts ptiotipa1 ge...eal ae      ..peliee  hoapifals. cadtoa
POPhLATIONi AND VITAL. STATISTICS                                                               boapitale lotI oh tota  heapiteea1aed ae a  ced aa ieoa               _tytaee..
locl  opla         MisOd-fa  (elllh-tt  - As df July 1  19600. 1970. cod 1978               Hddefosye  dactl Bad - Totl,:,             'e  of admfacioee to -e diatbcgea
Iota.                                                                 froc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d   boapleala dheRded by thI ohto   se
IrbeeFooato   (petce-ef told1) - Sotlo of urhes to total popo1atiso;
d1ffeteod lafloltlosa   f orb en ateca oa   efct odpe...hblit  of late                 dHfOUING
amogcoshtae;190,  970  as  :19  ete                     Aorag  bte  f Roaeololeracc pr bocho~isdhl                        - oa.obas, cod tae-1
Ocoal,aol tealc lIe eopetcoty   sahI llo-  a  11.  yaccae-1. T .a.p.ta-       lellt_g.C rehof       cy   loelloga -.Icd  rbor-persot-ttA-roto ee
seeeeto  fehlly eata oilac ICoa thet  lad tcuh             elThe Iti_ootopselpatt
hahcosy ia  heasssloto   ta   so   obotoeo   otlt                                  Ccntellotoool   e           D.io .etectltt   lde .so.s  quettara  as
et-loet  feltytoa oerjtsprpaaclua.cca,aloclslotsettl.
f-alsaosatt .-    Io   h   chta   otd ait heetlley  taste, lacllsetO                                I    Iute   orlC      ofds1t Ratstbs,  .d-
seth level.l                                    h-    I     g.. h   .
tl, b1,11 C:III.  .... to I1: ~ ~ ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      cou-rlseolth,osoare-  od-cs he ..t.lc.s .ay  occEdDUCApToOo
_hiC.  . ba -baseahelI.   Ci    d            ;C         Jt            Ci.C              AutacodcEoa-I o-l-soha.caaofml-dftd   ccoe   eo
PeCeloletlt                                                                                   edocdasOoee"Iaqoiee.set leac   foo  yar   fcpeodprmr   aart
otly                                                                            VdatIscl teoloae (Rrost o  ahcolcr I                        ...tlsa  setirot6oa1
64heaa), odte ice   (f 'ehes P.....    as pa..c.shaga.  of  idP-yea 1sp-ticrlyora  d.p..ee.   ofaeo..y.thoIoa
lasos t 96e   191200, cod l9TC%b     1dIi     1fell~y-.I data.                             Psei-toce   a  o-piay   o   eolarv-Toha.. listd ata  sldh
year poplathote  oe 1950-I, 1960TI, eel  910-TI.                        drrbupodioglecl.d  -df..t19h                      teeydCI ;I
Pooalsls-btl   rret  .ob--ec    eobteac   re   fO                                            dl lleerat rate-(ery1t du-Liteat a-u1f   lab I          e fh road  ed trite)t
la  thooc   . for p 1951-hI,  190-0  co.Cd 17-78. - h          1C .      .u.ceprtea                             ftota  dolt. pdpulcioe  aged 15 ycheo ad otg       e
Ceu - Oh.tRt (par t..houad( -  oullieheherceoo-do1odra
popoatso; 190, 170,  ol 118 dta.                                 loioSs'.dTIoo      .               1.o       _.    .        d           ;  ..dl
beeq.. -oa     Meprductiv  pel,pl,od ft    q. khaae il-oe - reacr   age-opcIi ofat         ai Rec- oce  (rtooctCsato)-Altpoofecl sferd
of,,,  child bstlo-.ag (p--           - Caila) oho 1 ysee hcrtb-c ireo  degtat         to5 dicaloars tper houC.   o i orulato1,ol - th.  racafo    hi to  pesodteatho
oil YarrIed ooer _is sca  eg5 yRt.OdOP            .     l-.                                 gaoarau-  tly prsli  pe d boeao -ppo -eh t;noolucaos  atd -            eoir
lee o  Coo   roohioa s ottC Ce   ttis .196-71 -100 - 1   .tedeob e   cp of   cotoa id-    pios o  ".dal  geesrda  1ntres ditipepar,  defb..d caparhodica l pb-
ped cttof_Ih  folr.R      llia      rdut.sctll se  cdfe   e                           l     .ctio  pdevte  eIsc.rI-yt  aod-RRorl  ae.I   so taa
eta seal Roc I   pdCd   thAgeead  p-dce    of- etcIh   6C ontrh  Ia.. d aeof id00.         tIcet  tld dorho  the.- year,  iotoigoae    t P              ro-Pet
pspahicoo    1ote0t pr970ce  peCoibe    9105   80   o   99Ia.alsh                                        sis
quarioy la-  used foy fctd pocyele -Cg,ae  loitat Its 1960t197hsho       197. Reqire       DaRollso   stoat)                                   Y     Ifonolsoeochrhe    196, l970ao
citJy ?I o.i      -clc    oo 1drotoortasouc...     pe. at-t-.1  holy scfaha  ag...l (ece P..tecalsdlaoo forc  es patr-esegi.oftoeid lao  f-ec.
d.,ec IIetebolc   ofd po   piacos, ae  shon.    0pece..ocec                 ico.lsoeP..  7    loeCes)    Lbo fdo  iseheog, forsatep..l bsiog co
ocIraetsilfor e-I cstie   aehhd  yIl   peenid.  lotdlisc                                1970andd978  tca
eloeoc   ofTgesoVoclooeopely  t   0taoo  ala   n                                   asCheeh    ot lpoerreou.  pple-totl  o    ed eal-PeI Ciaoe
arId cr  beatF coa Pd those ofp        es   fhedpoeead2   caao                               cllvtse   0   optda  totefI            , vole, end femalep,,    labor force a
aoio,l rhteleSe aacerda  fe th  s-od, ooroto  hr  of i  theThie           pareocaee o  hohl , ale al fest ppulaion  f ofloict retsorocly
dodfo   ocr   96-bd    90al:7  dat.i160  190,  od197  dta.Ihea  tc  bO    Iastspd settetshctfd
Pee.. icte re Y'l auf     yfo  ala  o    .sua-TrtI          r  eplyo  focI -de              a ge-ceo. dtuth   0   h    olts,ar eiia  re.A  a   a
matt  art fete natloa  aoCse  ..If.                       k
Chl _eaa1ud irAgut-Oc-  pcarIbosat) Y-..ua                     Ictaythocd                   shte   tofal AlebdoaCfee.                  d- -          h
as -lth   1960  1970 od., 1978          'h-6,                 9   dcc,tos  oobcll
of eg _ Ar t        ihr_osat   line.   ...iesha.-i.,                                     ta-TImat1 LAha olute Tothou.. dhopoa .. Lait7011ye Caossa F-  ubt  o   oe
fOm      d              - f   obk,nt ,ota I,ev  roal p t  ta Cnablroteedsaes            ooIelcscll- daquc   dietply   bulo  -asediel tot-fond,requiOsite1 
eatr sCply. ... 1t.e freatd  surf. ace edaSer     ir setdI  ibusI. 1q iootestd             aftale     .,
parnage   fthei Cteepe_I.  p. oaho..       iaoreaeapulc                                c  re_csn       F po ert   Iboyelee f a  'so-third  of avarag  perC fccpt
coolld o  ao dl e,Ibei. cofh  reasotele..  ..ae  ol tlao s hous.ltorerlea                   eeLos   l            tfeh  filaecoos. ofhhIth   rb eae
rural -                                  -uehee of-people (total,dar-en, as                                                    I rutslg served.by serrat
fsosl  e    eltss I _oof N tleeure tiY  popuCChoda.Iterat  Igs.toosi paot.Ogia of r  Olo1hebhFos                                                                 160
poe   ayitld   h   obeso   eel h-epoec ,. noth or  titheof erctiet                                                   fcoomd _1lpi7  odProeocos  laaret
of beat escrt  and oe--hec.   orooe-orecrh5    o              r tbep.I' , sac   of                                                    .IOrobee106
pOt pelolee and aishlat losesllofatlova.   d  .-I    P                                                                   l   T  1,:b: C.           I'



-26-                                                   Annex I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  26,670,000    (mid-1980)
CNP Per Capita: US$1010 a/
Amount          Average Annual Increase (X)       Share of GDP at Market Prices (2)
Indicator                            (million US$        (at constant 1970 prices)              (at current prices)
at current prices)
1980 b/         1960-70   1970-75   1975-80       1960      1970       1975      1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product c/                32,686              5.3       6.1        5.8        100.0     100.0     100.0    100.0
Agriculture                             8,197              3.5       5.2        4.0         34.1      28.6       29.3      25.2
Industry                                8,799              6.2       6.1       4.4          25.7      26.6      26.3       29.2
Services                               12,559              5.9       7.3        6.4         40.2      44.8      42.4       45.6
Consumption                              24,435              5.9       6.6        5.6         79.4      79.6      81.6       74.7
Gross Investment                          7,994              5.1       0.6        8.5         20.5      22.0       17.8      24.4
Exports of goods and NFS                  5,648              3.1       5.9       10.0         15.6      14.2      15.1       17.4
Imports of goods and NFS                  5,391              4.3       1.1      12.7          15.5      15.8      14.5       16.5
Gross national savings                    8,103              5.2       5.3       10.8         19.4      18.0      16.8       24.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(at current prices)
1960     1970      1975      1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                  4,428             3.3       1.4      10.8          100.0    100.0     100.0      100.0
Major primary                           2,871              2.8      -4.6       12.8          72.5    69.4       51.2       64.8
Mfajor manufactures                        686              -       23.8        6.5           -        9.0      24.5       15.5
Other merchandise imports (CIF)            871              -        3.8        5.4           -       21.6      24.3       19.7
Merchandise                                4,533             3.5      -2.3        9.1         100.0    100.0      100.0     100.0
Food                                      364             10.0      -0.1      13.4            2.4      4.5       4.8        8.0
Petroleum                                  750           -21.4      70.6      43.5            2.0      -         2.0       16.5
M1achinery and equipment                1,750              5.2      -8.5      11.0           42.7    50.6       36.4       38.6
Other                                   1,669              1.8       2.4        5.4          52.9     44.9      56.8       36.9
1974      1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      1980 b/
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                    27.6      20.8      23.6      28.3       17.1      23.9      24.5
Exchange rate                                   27.1      31.2      35.0       36.9      39.3      42.6      47.3
Export price index                             155.4     159.7     214.5     303.6      260.2     262.2    294.9
Import price index                            210.3      217.3     233.5     254.3     202.0      220.6    252.2
Terms of trade index                            73.9      73.5      91.9     119.4      128.8    118.8    117.0
As % GDP
(at current prices)
1970          1975        1980 f/
PUBLIC FINANCE d/
Current revenue                                                   10.6          11.3         12.2
Current expenditure                                                5.7           5.3          8.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                         4.9           6.0          3.3
Capital expenditure                                                1.8           1.1          4.6
Foreign financing e/                                               3.3           2.9          4.0
1960-70       1970-75     1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                                                5.10          6.30         6.00
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                     2.00          3.90         3.70
Energy consumption growth rate (X)                                 5.00          4.00         4.00
ICOR j/                                                            3.54          343
Marginal savings rate h/                                           0.13          0.13         0.16
Import elasticity                                                  1.17          0.16        2.20
a/ World Bank Atlas Method.
b/ Estimated.
c/ At market prices: Components are expressed at factor cost and will not add because of exclusion of net indirect taxes
and subsidies.
dJ Central Government.
e/ Gross disbursements of external loans to the entire public sector.
fl  Includes Social Security and Fondo Vial.
,/ Lagged one year.
hi  Increment to gross domestic savings/increment to gross domestic product.
April 24, 1981



-27-
Annex I
Par ie2 of;2
KAJA11E 1 OF PA9YMEN7. EXTERNAL. 5AP2IA N. AN'1 1ESH
l'c,p,l.. t im     2' .',7'.,',iii, Snidl-19i1,
'N Ir (Kpit,.  '151'15, (! I 1979                                                              (million  [SS dt culrrent prices,
1974        1375        197M        19 77      1978       17979           198           1   799   192          198
I1AIANS:I (IF lAYMENIS
F-ports. of goods and n- rator 'croicoc                       1            21)9        279.2         34(94      41,i9       491,"          i327         232         972        '41I'        7.67        9649
Import. iif goads and! no-(ane  on seroi1 147A,                                                                  722         21            3276        25;         i999         i44        in98        9884
Retcu  babon                                                    -149          -252         419         7h74         197         '19           -49        -/;J       -181,        -1234       -111        -1222
Met factor paynnssts                                          -18')        -293        -279          -232       -244        -!27           -172        -1".        -166         -294        -175        -487
Nct,,nrcqoitrn. sr.Onfrrs                                      27           48           dl           li          7           4             26                        ;           i           b           6
erment A-cicet 1,ala-cc                                          -192          -81,        222           495          7         299           193         -24        2249         1432       -l222       -1721
Nst,lirect  ('iriS5n ionvstornt                                    39           J2          14            41        ,r          124           234          I2 123                  22          2259         150
Mndi'o    d long ncnm  Inino  fnc5}                               2912 599                 It1           192         72         7',           1,1          45  999                 42           79)       1266
tn  public  occtIr                                            (191NW       (224        (159,          17915      (92        (91,          (7I1,        729,        (911        (846       ,89501 (1J18,
to p-ioatc ecntnr                                              142            i4s)       522,         (-1,      5-29,)       I'),           (577,       -21         (99,         (961       I11'         1481
.t.or c apitol                                                     2r          _16 19                    792        391       -128           264
C.pinnl Acc-o,-t lloloe1 c                                       299           219          74           197        219        i69           2933          924        1749        2192         227 1,216
[fiang:' in  Rcsrents  7- - incrasos                               h          -I lu       -62          -8.2       -616       -12,2          -1141         295) 199                 9O         -30A)        277
Intt.roaliooal Rnu,eonu  (officio  ,                              722          .47       7199          7891       248h2       4!5            2247        2942        4947        4647        4347         4147
1,conroot ao nornt1,  of inpoarso                                1.6           1.2         9.l           9.0]     S"'5         11.8          11.2         9.7          .9          7.          9 6.80      5.0
CROSS DISBU2RSEMENTS 
Of fiialr 7  ranto                                                                                                               
Cens  disubsroesc,,t S n     l1 I ,an                         293           79"         292           371       319        19,36
Cones rnulona                                                 )192           3i9          47           27         60          99
81 lanorual                                                  1791,,        (37)         144,         (21,       193,        (71,
IDA                                                            _            _*         f)            ()          _  
0th-c rMulti laturil                                           (2;          (2,          (3,          76,        17,         (8,
Non_conessrnal                                                 13 119        51         215           345        261,       1"0
Official e-pnrt neditu                                        126)         1147         (C)         (7145       fl9s        1475
1BRU                                                          158,        (L')6        (769          (125       (82,       7178,
Othe-  -nltilat-eal                                           (14j         (195         527          (31,       733s        571)
pri-tae                                                       (35)        (212)       (112,         (214)     (125)        1783,
EXTERNAL DEBT (end of perind) c/
Debt -s,tat-ding and disbursed                               1249         234,        2493          2s75,     2R'3         J426
Offilil                                                   IU74          1716        1285         1862       1999        2151
IBRD                                                     (314)        (634)        7672;        771,)    (7517         (8387
IDA                                                       720)          (22s        (22,                    (222        122,
Other                                                    1700)         11960,     11019,       (1124)   (1225,        (12915
Prinat.                                                   174          632         668           808        804        1275
.ndi.b,sesad Debt                                             602          663         998         104(,      1516         1993
D851 SERVICE 1/
Total debt   -ir-ie paymento of vhinh                       119           249         278          313        398         664
lnterest                                                   44           114         125          137        171         231
Payments as 7 noports of .onds and
all seroInes                                             11.6          (1.1         9.5          8.8        9.5        12.3
Payoetu as -Y. GNP                                          1.7           1.9         1.9          1.6        L.8         2.4
A-trage interest eate on  new  loans (%)                     538           7.4         9.5           7.4        7.9        15).3
Offinial                                                   (5.l)         11,17       (5.)          17.31     77.6,       (7,1,
Pfloato                                                    (6.9)         78.2;       17.5)        (7.6)      (8.6)      (12.0)
Anerago '-at-rity of new  loans (year)                       27.4         15.1        14.8         16.0       14.1         12.6
Official                                                  (30.1)        (26.1)      720.0)       (17.9,    716. 2       (16 8.
Private                                                    (9.7)         (8.2)       (74)         (7.6)        79.15   (71.0,
BAK GROUP EXPOSURE (7.) Sl
IDRD DOD/total DOD                                          28.4          27.0        27.4         26.8       26,8        24.5
DBRD disbursereets/total gross dibshrsetests                24.6          27.1        28.9         22.9      27.7          13.3
DBRD debt sertnieltotal debt stroine                        34.4          28.9        13.7         14 3        8.8        13.1
IDA DOD/total DOD                                             1.6          1.0         0 9           0.8       0.8          0.6
IDA dicbursenents/total gross disbursements .-                                          -
IDA debt serviceltotal debt -er-ie                             -           3.1         0.1         (1.1        0.1         9.9
As I. nf Debt Outstanding
at End of 1979
TERM STRDCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (7.)
haturities d'se oithin  9 years                                                                                          3.23
Maturities dun within  10 years                                                                                          68.6
loteress stroctore of debt outstanding (7.)
Isterest doe within  first year                                                                                           ;.4
a! World Rask Atla lMethod
6/ Poeliinleary
a/ Public and publinly guaranteed debt
April 246 1981
Colotbia Divisios



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1980)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                              Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
54 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                        918.4      23.5 /I   --
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota        Water Supply       88.0                0.6
849      1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria              Irrigation          2.2                 .6
860      1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                       Water Supply        9.1                1.9
874      1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 56.0                  .3
920      1973  Colombia                          Education          21.2                9.0
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Foniento
Municipal                       Water Supply       27.0                9.0
1118    1975  Colombia                           Rural Settlement 19.5                  6.7
1163    1975  Colombia                           Agriculture        21.0               12.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   80.0                  3.0
1352    1977  Colombia                           Rural Dev.         52.0               26.9
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica              Agricultural Cr. 64.0                 21.5
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de                Communications   58.3                 50.7
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   15.0                  1.5
1471    1977  Colombia                           Highways           90.0               65.1
1487    1978  Colombia                           Nutrition          25.0               20.4
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply           13.8               12.6
1558    1978  Colombia                           Urban Develop-
ment            24.8               23.5
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                 126.0              101.1
1583    1978  Colombia                           Power              50.0               20.0
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial             Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0               12.4
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.  100.0                 32.9
1624    1979  Colombia                           Airports           61.0               50.4
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                       Power             84.0               60.5
1694    1979  Colombia                           Urban Develop-
ment            13.5               13.5
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                       Water Supply       30.0              29.1



-29-                             ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1980) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose              Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1725 /2 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                 Power               72.0              72.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal               Water Supply        31.0             31.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria           Agriculture Cr.   20.0               20.0
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.                 Mining-Nickel       80.0              74.3
1807 /2 1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica   Power                   87.0              87.0
de Bogota
1825 /2 1980  Empresas Publicas de               Communications    44.0                44.0
Medellin
1834 /2 1980  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.    32.0                32.0
1857 /2 1980  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   150.0               150.0
1868 /2 1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                  125.0             125.0
TOTAL                                            2,705.8       23.5
Of which has been repaid                            508.4       2.2
Total now outstanding                            2,197.4       21.3
Amount sold                          50.9
Of which has been repaid             37.9            13.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   2,184.4       21.3
Total undisbursed                                                   1,206.9
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-30-                              Page 3 of 12
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1980)
Type of          Amount in U$ million
Year               Obligor                     Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1959        Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board       0.50       -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                       Food products   1.99   0.08          2.07
1961        Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans        0.70       -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                      Home furniture  0.08   0.09          0.17
1961        Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment      0.50       -       0.50
1962        Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                         financing          -   2.02        2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera              Development          -   2.04        2.04
Nacional                           financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de              Textiles          1.98   0.15        2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de           Development
Caldas                             financing          -   0.81        0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.            Steel forging        -   1.27        1.27
1966        Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing       1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966        Industria Ganadera                 Livestock         1.00   0.58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.              Textiles          5.00   2.60        7.60
1969        Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism              -   0.01        0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del          Development          -   0.45        0.45
Norte                              financing
1969        Corporacion Financiera del         Development          -   0.43        0.43
Valle                              financing
1970        Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism           0.23   0.11        0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                   Tourism           0.80   0.25        1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de           Housing              -   0.46        0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974        Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement            1.50       -       1.50
1975        Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement            3.60       -       3.60
1976        Las Brisas                         Mining            6.00       -       6.00
1977        Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.             Utilities        13.00   2.00      15.00
1977        Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                 Construction
Material       2.43   0.30        2.73
1980        Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing           9.00    .19        9.19
Total Gross Commitments                             49.31  13.84       63.15
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             36.63   8.88       45.51
Total commitments now held by IFC                   12.68   4.96       17.64
Total undisbursed                                    3.00     .19       3.19



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.        Ln. No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section, which was delayed by
a methane explosion, is expected by mid-1982; all other project elements will
be completed by the end of 1981.  Borrower's    financial performance had
deteriorated and it was unable to meet financial targets. Recently, however,
large tariff increases were put into effect and additional ones are being
contemplated which should help to improve overall finances and bring Borrower's
performance closer in line with targets. Disbursements up to December 31, 1980,
amounted to about 99% of the loan amount.
2.        Ln. No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; US$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - September 30, 1981
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Settlement of farmers within the project areas is behind
schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs improve-
ment. Because heavy seasonal rainfall in 1979 resulted in severe flooding in
the project area, civil works construction has been halted and a study is being
carried out to reassess the flood protection and drainage requirements of the
area.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-32-                             ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
3.        Ln. No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - May 31, 1981
As of December 31, 1980, about 75% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution;
however during 1980, execution improved. INSFOPAL prepared a new implemen-
tation program for each city and works are now contracted and under construc-
tion, with no further delays foreseen. All works are expected to be completed
by May 1981.
4.        Ln. No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - June 30, 1980
The project is virtually completed. After considerable delay in
resettling the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the Santa Rita
reservoir was carried out in May 1978, three years behind schedule. The
revised project cost is substantially above appraisal estimate, mainly occa-
sioned by higher cost of the civil works and resettlement. As of December 31,
1980, loan funds were fully committed and US$55.7 million or 99% of the loan
amount had been disbursed.
5.        Ln. No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution had been suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition
of sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 but suffered
continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted a proposal to
reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the loan.
However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978, retracted
the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally conceived.
Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in planning,
construction, educational programming and personnel training, and project
execution is proceeding normally. Nevertheless, because of the delay and
higher costs the scope of the project may have to be reduced.



-33-                              ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
6.         Ln. No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$27 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date:  April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981
In spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic
stabilization measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily
in most cities. With the exception of the ground water component and Barranquilla
water treatment plant which would be completed by December 1981, all works are
expected to be completed by June 1981. Sub-borrowers have not been implement-
ing tariff adjustments as agreed, therefore, INSFOPAL is proceeding to take
corrective measures. As of December 31, 1980, US$18.0 million or 67% of the
loan had been disbursed.
7.        Ln. No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million,
June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1981
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (168 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficient credit are
lagging because of slow transfer of funds by the Treasury; the Government is
attempting to correct the situation. As of December 31, 1980, US$6.7 million
or 34% of the loan remained undisbursed.
8.        Ln. No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 mil-
lion, September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and implementation is still behind
schedule. One of the project's main problems continues to be inadequate
budget allocations to carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to
farmers. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan,
technical assistance to farmers and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries
are inadequate; the executing agencies have now agreed to take corrective
measures. As of December 31, 1980, US$8.2 million of the loan amount had
been disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
9.        Ln. No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 mil-
lion, March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of December 31, 1980, about 96% of the loan had been
disbursed.
10.       Ln. No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fourth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, while
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays.  Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and first stage evaluation is currently underway.
As of December 31, 1980, US$25.1 million, or 48% of the loan had been disbursed.
11.       Ln. No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million,
February 4, 1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
The funds originally assigned to medium and large farmers were fully
committed and disbursed and the $2.0 million reallocated to this component will
be fully committed soon. However, only 28% of subloans allocated to small
farmers have been disbursed, but commitments have increased recently. Concern
over possible diversion and substitution of subloan funds led the Borrower
to increase substantially its end-use supervision. About 51% of loan funds
for credit to agroindustries have been committed for 116 subprojects. As of
December 31, 1980, US$42.6 million, or 67% of the loan had been disbursed.
12.       Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expan-
sion, and design of buildings to house equipment. Good progress is being made
in the acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies. As of
December 31, 1980, US$50.7 million, or 87% of the loan, remained undisbursed.



ANNEX II
-35-                              Page 8 of 12
13.       Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    March 31, 1981
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds are
fully committed. As of December 31, 1980, US$13.5 million had been disbursed.
14.       Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. All rehabilitation works have been conttacted and
25% of the roads completed. The maintenance program began in March 1980;
consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out the program have been retained and
the bulk of the maintenance equipment has been purchased. The vehicle weight
control program is about to begin after a 28-month delay. As of December 31,
1980, about US$25.0 million had been disbursed.
15.       Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply but execution is running about a
year behind schedule. Initial delays occurred in two subsidiary components--
home food production and food quality control--but activities are now underway.
Project management and coordination have been sound, flexible and effective.
Project monitoring and evaluation systems are operating effectively.
16.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Because of EMCALI's failure to comply with some of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement dealing with the finances of its Water and Sewerage
Division, on January 29, 1981, the Bank suspended disbursements under this
loan. Disbursements will be resumed once EMCALI has taken corrective measures.
As of December 31, 1980, US$12.6 million or 91% of the loan remained undisbursed.



-36-                             ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
17.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
While project execution and coordination has recently improved,
overall progress is still running behind schedule. Project implementation
plans in 16 of the 23 cities have been approved by the Bank. The new Directora
General of SIP intends to accelerate project implementation and has established
a working unit to monitor progress and evaluate the project.
18.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule and main contracts for
equipment have been signed. As of December 31, 1980, US$24.9 million or
20% of the loan had been disbursed.
19.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about two years as a result of KfW's objection to the contract award
for substations (KFW was originally to finance this component). The
Government is now exploring other sources of finance.
20.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. Construction and the promotional campaign are
both well under way, but there have been delays in contracting the water supply
works and in construction of a portion of the access road. Difficult soil
conditions encountered at the site will require substantial soil investigations.



-37-                            ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
21.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and by the end of December
31, 1980, 99% of the loan funds, or about US$99.1 million had been committed.
22.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well under way. Because of poor soils, there is a
construction delay at the future Rio Negro airport and a solution to this
problem is currently being investigated.
23.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well under way, although with a 3-6 month delay.
Higher-than-anticipated costs (estimated at US$62 million) are expected as a
result of higher bids than forecast at appraisal. Performance by the Borrower
continues to be satisfactory.
24.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Effective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Physical works are about one year behind schedule, but the implemen-
tation programs for 1980 and 1981 have been accelerated in an endeavor to make
up the time lost and complete the project in 1983.
25.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding slowly. As mentioned in
paragraph 1, the borrower is taking additional tariff measures to improve its
finances.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
-38-
26.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
Awaiting resolution of the problem of heavy arrears in payments to
ISA from ICEL, a shareholder, the Bank has not yet agreed to the effectiveness
of this loan.
27.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Prcject implementation is under way with the final designs for 16 of
the 23 subprojects approved and with designs for the remaining subprojects in
final stages of preparation.
28.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
This loan became effective on October 1, 1980 and project implementa-
tion is underway.
29.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Effective Date: July 3, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
While some awards of construction contracts are lagging behind
schedule, procurement of equipment and materials is progressing well and
the Borrower is confident that the project will be completed by April 1982.
30. 1/    Ln. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million,
February 6, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
31. 1/    Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million,
December 19, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
32. 1/    Ln. No. 1834-CO Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million,
December 10, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
1/   Delays were encountered in the signing of these loans because it was not
possible for the Government to convene a special congressional session
to increase the ceiling on external debt.



-39-                             ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
33.        Ln. No. 1857-CO Eighth DFC; US$150 million, December 10, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
34.        Ln. No. 1868-CO Guadplup.  IV Hydro Power; US$125 million.
December 19, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
March 12, 1981



-40-                             ANNEX III
Page 1
COLOMBIA
VILLAGE ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 36 months
(b) Agency which prepared project: CORELCA
(c) First presentation to Bank: June 1978
(d) First mission to review project: May 21, 1979
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 24, 1980
(f) Completion of negotiations: April 17, 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) measures would be taken to strengthen the capability of the
Electrificadoras (paragraphs 39 and 57);
(b) consultant services would be obtained on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 51);
(c) CORELCA would carry out a study to determine the value of its
assets and those of the Electrificadoras (paragraph 55);
(d) CORELCA would attain a debt service coverage of at least
1.1 in 1982 and 1.3 in 1983 and thereafter (paragraph 55);
(e) the Government would ensure that CORELCA's remaining requirements
for the financing of its investments during 1981-85 would be met
(paragraph 55);



-41-                             ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) CORELCA would seek Bank concurrence prior to exceeding an agreed
limit on capital expenditures (paragraph 55);
(g) CORELCA would achieve rates of return on revalued assets of 3.5%
in 1981, 7.5% in 1982, and 11% in 1983 and annually thereafter
(paragraph 55);
(h) corrective action would be taken to ensure that public entities
would pay to the Electrificadoras, over a reasonable period, their
overdue electricity accounts (paragraph 56); and
(i) independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, would be engaged
by CORELCA to audit its accounts and those of the Electrificadoras
(paragraph 56).
Special conditions of effectiveness are that:
(a) Subsidiary Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, would be finalized
between CORELCA and the Electrificatoras (paragraph 48);
(b) arrangements have been made for CORELCA's 1981-82 financing
requirements (paragraph 55).
Prior to disbursement of loan proceeds for the training center, the
terms and conditions under which the facility is to operate would be identified,
and a Board of Directors and Managing Director would be appointed (paragraph 58).
Section IV: Amendments to Prior Agreements
The targeted rates of return on fully revalued assets agreed under
the Shareholders' Agreement for San Carlos I and II (Loans 1582-CO and 1725-CO)
have been amended from the previously agreed 6% in 1981, 7% in 1982 and 9%
annually thereafter, to 3.5% in 1981, 7.5% in 1982, and 11% in 1983 and subse-
quent years (paragraph 55). In addition, the 5% target for 1980 has been
waived because the under-achievement of 2.2% return in that year resulted from
circumstances beyond CORELCA's control (paragraph 55).






o  K                   z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;



