0  IC    IA   LOAN NUMBER 1999 CO
DOCUMENT S
Loan Agreement
(Village Electrification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CORPORACION ELECTRICA DE LA COSTA ATLANTICA
Dated                              , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1999 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      M      tL   , 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AWDEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and CORPORACION ELECTRICA DE LA COSTA ATLANTICA (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of part of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower owns and effectively controls the majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest of
Electrificadora de Atlantico, Electrificadora de Bolivar, Electri-
ficadora de Cesar, ELectrificadora de Cordoba, Electrificadoea de
Guajira, Electrificadora de Magdalena, Electrificadora de San
Andres and Providencia and Electrificadora de Sucre (hereinafter
sometimes collectively called Electrificadoras); and
(C) the Borrower will obtain from Electrificadoras and from
other sources assistance in the financing of the balance of the
cost of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):


﻿-2-
Section 11.03 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 11.03. Action on behalf of the Borrower
or Guarantor. *Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to
be executed, pursuant to the Loan Agreement or the
Guarantee Agreement, on behalf of the Borrower or the
Guarantor, may be taken or executed by the representa-
t tve of the Borrower or the Guarantor designated in
the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement for
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto
authorized in writing by him. Any modification or
amplification of the provisions of the Loan Agreement or
the Guarantee Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of
the Borrower or the Guarantor by written instrument
executed on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor
by the representative so designated or any person
thereunto authorized in writing by him; provided- that
such modification or amplification is reasonable in the
circumstances 'and will not substantially increase the
obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement or
of the Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Shareholders' Agreement" means the Shareholders'
Agreement for Loan No. 1582-CO (San Carlos I Hydro Power Project)
of July 14, 1978 between the Bank and Empresa de Energia El&ctrica
de BogotS, and Empresas Pfblicas de Medellin and Corporacion
Aut6noma Regional del Cauca and Instituto Colombiano de Energia
Elictrica and the Borrower (hereinafter called the Shareholders);
(b) "Second Shareholders' Agreement" means the Shareholders'
Agreement for Loan No. 1725-CO (San Carlos II Hydro Power Project)
of November 30, 1979 between the Bank and the Shareholders;
(c) "Estatutos" means the estatutos of the Borrower approved
by the Guarantor's Decree No. 963 dated June 8, 1972, as amended
to the date of this Agreement and as further amended from time to
time, under which the Borrower was established and operates;


﻿-3-
(d) "Subsidiary Agreement" means any agreement entered
into between the Borrower and any of the Electrificadoras in
accordance ith Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(e) "pesos" and "Col.$" mean pesos in the currency of
the Guarantor;
(f) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, commen-
cing January 1 and ending December 31; and
(g) "Investment Program" means the investment program of
the Borrower for the years 1981 to 1985, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,060).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed -out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accbrdance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the rroject
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary
Agreement with each of the Electrificadoras, for defining (A) the
financial contribution of Electrificadoras to the cost of the
Project and their rights and obligations, and (B) the terms and
conditions whereby ownership of the facilities under Part B of the
Project will be transferred to    the Electrificadoras upon their
completion, and including such other terms and conditions as shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interest of
the Borrower and the Banl   nd to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in (a) the
supervision of the execution of the Project, and (b) the carrying
out of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to
appropriate ecological and environmental factors.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incitent
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare quarterly reports on the
execution of the Project and the Borrower's financial conditions,
including detailed information on the status of payments to the
Borrower from the Guarantor and Electrificadoras; and (ii) furnish
to the Bank such reports promptly after their preparation.


﻿-6-
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank, and the Borrower
and Electrificadoras of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(f) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate
business, financial and public utility practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
experienced and competent staff in adequate number.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall (i) furnish to the Guarantor and the
Bank, for their comments, the recommendations emanating from the
current study of the administrative and managerial procedures of
the Borrower, Electrificadora de Atlantico, Electrificadora de
Bolivar and Electrificadora de Magdalena; and (ii) not later than
December 31, 1982, give effect to such recommendations as it shall
decide to be appropriate, taking into account the comments of the
Guarantor and the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall take all action as shall be required
to strengthen the management, organization, planning and opera-
tions of Electrificadoras.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action, including the
provision of funds and other resources, to ensure that its faci-
lities, equipment and property are operated, maintained, renewed
and repaired in accordance with appropriate public utility and
engineering practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking, including the facili-
ties to be constructed under Part A of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in


﻿-8-
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the    principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall, until the Project has
been completed:
(a) (i) Inform the Bank of any proposal to make any capital
expenditure for increasing its power generating capacity by more
than one hundred megawatts; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on any such proposal before commiting
itself to such expenditure; and (iii) not commit itself to any
such capital expenditure unless the proposed expenditure is
economically justified as part of the national power expansion


﻿-9-
program of the Guarantor and the Borrower has obtained financing
under terms and conditions which shall not materially and
adversely affect its financial condition or its operations,
including the carrying out of the Project.
(b) Obtain the concurrence of the Bank before committing
itself to any capital expenditure not included in the Investment
Program: (i) if the sum of such capital expenditure and all other
such capital expenditures made or to be made in any one fiscal
year exceed or will exceed an amount equivalent to one per cent
(1%) of the net current value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
operation, as determined in accordance with Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; or (ii) if such capital expenditure is not directly
related to the power operations of the Borrower or any of the
Electrificadoras.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of tne Borrower shows that the
projected internal cash generation of the Borrower for each fiscal
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least
the following percentage of the projected debt service of the
Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower including the
debt to be incurred: (i) 110% for fiscal year 1982; and (ii) 130%
for fiscal year 1983 and thereafter.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower maturing
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (or other instrument providing for such debt
or further modification of its terms of payment) on the date of
signature of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) "debt of the Borrower" means the total amount of debt
of the Borrower.
(d) "internal cash generation of the Borrower" means gross
income of the Borrower from all sources less all operating and


﻿- 10
administrative expenses of the Borrower, excluding depreciation
of assets and interest and other charges on debt.
(e)  "debt service" means the aggregate amount of amorti-
zation (including sinking fund payments, if any) oZ, and interest
and other charges on, debt.
(f) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
by the Borrower in the fiscal year in which the debt in question
is to be incurred, which both the Bank and the Borrower accept
as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified the Borrower
of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since
such notification which has or may reasonably be expected in
the future to have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future operating results of the Borrower.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) Take all measures (including adjustments of its tariffs
and charges) for the supply and sale of electricity as shall be
required to generate an annual return on the average net current
value of its fixed assets in operation at a rate of at least
seven and one-half per cent (7.5%) in the 1982 fiscal year, eleven
per cent (11%) in the 1983 fiscal year and each fiscal year
thereafter. Such rates of return shall be calculated in accordance
with the method set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) Within the first two months of each calendar quarter,
review the adequacy of its tariffs and charges for the supply and
sale of electricity to produce the annual rates of return required
under paragraph (a), and shall furnish to the Bank the results of
such review promptly after its completion.
(c) If any such review shall show that the Borrower would
not achieve the annual rates of return required under paragraph
(a) in the course of the twelve-month period commencing with such
quarter: (i) adjust its tariffs and charges in such a manner as to
permit the achievement of the targets established in paragraph
(a); and (ii) put into effect the adjusted tariffs and charges not
later than the end of the next following calendar quarter.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
carry out a study for the establishment of the current value
of the assets of the Borrower and of each of the Electrificadoras
and a methodology for the revaluition of such assets;
(b) by June 30, 1983, furnish to the Guarantor and the
Bank, for review and comment, the findings of the study; and
(c) taking into account the recommendations of such study,
and the comments of the Bank and the Guarantor thereon, introduce,
not later than January 1, 1984, on its books the asset values
so established and on its accounting system an asset revaluation
methodology.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1983, furnish to the Bank its transmission program for the
years 1985 to 1990.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than
August 31, 1982, prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and to the
Bank, for comment, a plan to settle the outstanding debt to
Electrificadoras for electricity supplied by Electrificadoras; and
(ii) not later than October 30, 1982, carry out the plan referred
to in (i) hereof, taking into account the comments of the Guaran-
tor and of the Bank thereon.
ARTICLE VI
Amendments to First and Second
Shareholders' Agreement
Section 6.01. Section 5.02 (a) (iv) of the First Share-
holders' Agreement is hereby amended and shall read as follows:
"(iv) CORELCA, at least four per cent (4%) in the
year 1978, five per cent (5%) in the years 1979 and
1980, three-and-a-half per cent (3.5%) in the year
1981, seven-and-a-half per cent (7.5%) in the year
1982 and eleven per cent (11%) in the year 1983 and
thereafter".
Section 6.02. Section 5.02 (a) (iv) of the Second Share-
holders' Agreement is hereby amended and shall read as follows:


﻿- 12 -
"(iv) CORELCA, at least five per cent (5%) in the years
1979 and 1980, three-and-a-half per cent (3.5%) in the
year 1981, seven-and-a-half per cent (7.5%) in the
year 1982 and eleven per cent (11%) in the year 1983
and thereafter".
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that the Estatutos, or any
provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated
without the prior agreement of the Bank.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof namely that the event specified in
Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been
made to provide the Borrower with the financing required for
carrying out the Investment Program during the 1982 and 1983
Fiscal Years; and
() that the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and Electrificadoras have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has


﻿- 13 -
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and Electrificadoras and that such
Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
Borrower and Electrificadoras in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date  UV   f   /2 /9M2, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Corporacion Electrica de
la Costa Atlantica
Calle 53-B, No. 4650
Barranquilla, Colombia
Cable address:                      Telex:
CORELCA                            33309
Barranquilla, Colombia


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEnT
By 5&A10
B  X"     Regional Vice President
Lati7America and the Caribbean
CORPORACION ELECTRICA DE LA COSTA ATLANTICA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and               8,800,000         100% of foreign
materials (ex-                               expenditures and
cluding poles)                               100% of local
for Part A of                                expenditures
the Project                                  ex-factory
(2) Equipment and              20,300,000         100% of foreign
materials (ex-                               expenditures and
cluding poles)                               100% of local
for Part B of                                expenditures
the Project                                  ex-factory
(3) Consultants' ser-           1,400,000         50%
vices for Parts
A and B of the
Project
(4) Materials and               1,200,000         100% of foreign
equipment for                                expenditures and
Part C of the                                100% of local
Project                                      expenditures
ex-factory
(5) Consultants' ser-             300,000         100% of foreign
vices and train-                             expenditures
ing for Part C
of the Project
(6)  Consultants' ser-            300,000         100%
vices for Part
D the Project


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(7) Unallocated                3,700,000
TOTAL      36,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) Expenditures for Part C (1) of the Project under Cate-
gories (4) and (5) until: the Borrower and the Electrificadora de
Atlantico: (i) have agreed upon the terms and conditions for the
establishment and operation of the training center included in


﻿- 17 -
Part C of the Project; (ii) have appointed a Board of Directors to
coordinate the activities of such center; and (iii) have appointed
a Manager to manage the operations of such center.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, Jf the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's village electrification
program for the years 1981 to 1985, and consii;ts of:
Part A:   Transmission
Construction and installation of:
(1) About 220 km of 110 kV and 66 kV transmission lines;
and
(2) Substations with a combined transformer capacity of
about 130 MVA.
Part B:   Subtransmission and Distribution
Construction and installation of:
(1) About 1,150 km of 34.5 kV and 13.8 kV subtransmission
lines and related Substation equipment; and
(2) About 470 km of distribution lines, and about .35 MVA
of distribution transformer capacity and related distribution
equipment.
Part C:   Training
(1) Acquisition and utilization of teaching and laboratory
equipment for a training center of the Borrower and the Electrifi-
cadora de Atlantico; and
(2) Training of, including scholarships to, members of the
staff of the Borrower and Electrificadoras in areas related to
the operations of the Borrower and of Electrificadoras.
Part D:   Electric Power Losses Study
Carrying out, by March 31, 1983, a study of electric power
losses in the systems of Electrificadoras.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed Li dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1985
through October 1, 1997                     1,385,000
On April 1, 1998                                 1,375,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.70%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                  3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.20%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                            8.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  9.60%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977, 1980 edition
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connecti3n with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 22 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 23 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the


﻿-24-
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Method for Calculating Rate of Return
1.   The annual rate of return specified in Section 5.06 of this
Agreement wfil be calculated, in each calendar quarter in respect
of the twelve-month period beginning with such quarter and the
twelve-month period imaediately preceding, by using as the denom-
inator the average between the net current values of the respec-
tive fixed assets in operation at the beginning ;and at the end of
each such period and as numerator the operating income of the
Borrower for.the same period.
2.   Any shortfall or overrun in the. required annual return for
the twelve-month period immediately preceding the quarter in which
the calculation is to be made will be carried forward and sub-
tracted or added, as the case may be, to the numerator used for
the forthcoming twelve-month period.
3.   "Operating income" will be the difference between all reve-
nues from the sale of electricity and transmission charges, and
all administrative and operating costs relating thereto., including
maintenance and adequate provision for straight-line depreciation
on the average gross value of revalued fixed assets in operation.
4.   The net current value of fixed assets in operation will be at
any given date their gross value less accumulated depreciation to
such date, as revalued and depreciated in accordance with para-
graphs 5 and 6 below.
5.   Until another method, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
maintenance of value of assets of public utilities shall have been
made applicable to the Borrower, the gross value of the Borrower's
fixed assets in operation and wor's in progress will be revalued
quarterly in accordance with the corresponding variations in the
Indice nacional de precios al consumidor - Obreros - published by
the Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica of the
Guarantor, or a similar index approved by the Bank, to the last
month preceding the quarter in which the calculation is to be
made. For the purposes of this calculation, as of December 31,
1976:
(a) the aggregate gross value of the Borrower's fixed
assets in operation will be fixed in two thousand nine hundred
forty-five million pesos (Col.$2,945,000,000);


﻿- 26 -
(b) the aggregate gross value of the Borrower's fixed
assets in construction will be fixed in one thousand three hundred
seventy-three million pesos (Col.$1,373,000,000); and
(c) the accumulated depreciation on the assets in (a)
hereof will be fixed in three hundred fifty million pesos
(Col.$350,000,000).
6.   The Borrower will furnish to the Bank during the first
quarter of each fiscal year a report on the revaluation of assets
through the end of the preceding fiscal year. The report for the
fiscal year 1981 will be furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1982.
7.   Depreciation will be charged on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful life of the Borrower's fixed assets.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this J        day ofo W26  , 198.
FOR SECRETARY


