Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H636-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for National Emergency Rural Access Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANSITAN  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 27, 2010 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated December 27, 2010, entered into between the ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement or in the Original Financing Agreement, as the 
case may be.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twenty 
five 
million 
five 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights                
(SDR 25,500,000) (“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
Page  4
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out Part A and parts of Part C of the Project 
through MPW and Part B and parts of Part C of the Project through MRRD, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the letter of amendment to the Original Financing Agreement has been duly 
countersigned by an authorized representative of the Recipient, and is in force 
and effect.  
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
Pashtunistan Watt  
 
Kabul, 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan  
 Facsimile: 
 93-20-210-3258 
Page  5
3
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By /s/
 Omar Zakhilwal
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Samantha de Silva 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in enabling the population 
living in its rural areas to benefit from the year-round access to basic services and 
facilities through the rehabilitation and maintenance of rural access infrastructure under 
the Recipient’s National Rural Access Program. 
The Project consists of the Original Project (as amended to the date of this 
Agreement). 
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance and in compliance with 
the provisions set forth in sub-Sections I.A through I.E and Section V of 
Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement, which Sections and sub-
Sections are incorporated herein by reference and apply, 
mutatis mutandis
,
to this 
Agreement. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under 
the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
Page  8
6
furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)  Direct Contracting  
(c)  Shopping 
(d)  Community Participation** 
*
National Competitive Bidding
 procedures shall be subject to the following 
additional procedures: 
Page  9
7
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used. 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any 
hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(viii) 
All bidders shall provide bid security or a bid security declaration form 
as indicated in the bidding documents.  A
 bidder’s bid security or the 
declaration form shall apply only to a specific bid. 
(ix) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one (1) place preferably immediately, 
but no later than one (1) hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
(xi) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation 
shall be made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: 
(A) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified 
and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and 
qualified bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, 
Page  10
8
then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the 
Association. 
(xiii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than four (4) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(xvi) Re-
bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished. 
**
Community Participation
 shall be carried out in accordance with 
 
paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines and the procedures set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Quality-Based Selection  
(b)  Single-Source Selection 
(c)  Least-Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
Page  11
9
(f)  Individual Consultants 
Page  12
10 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:      
(a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; 
(b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; 
(c) all contracts for goods or works procured on the basis of Direct Contracting 
regardless of value; (d) each contract for consultant’s services provided by a 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (e) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated to costs the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more; and (f) each contract for consultants’ services procured on 
the basis of Single-Source Selection regardless of value. All other contracts shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods, works and 
consultants’ services, 
Training, Routine 
Maintenance Grants and 
Incremental Operating Costs 
for the Project 
25,500,000 100% 
Page  13
11 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
25,500,000 
 
For purposes of the above table of Eligible Expenditures, the following terms 
have the following meaning:  
 
(a) 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, support and management including 
the rental of office space, the operation, maintenance, rental and 
insurance of vehicles, fuel costs, communications supplies and charges, 
advertisement expenses, books and periodicals, office administration and 
maintenance costs, bank transaction charges, utility charges, domestic 
travel and per diem, and incremental salaries of MRRD and MPW staff 
on account of Project implementation; and 
 
(b) 
“Training” means the reasonable costs of trainings, workshops and 
conferences conducted in the territory of the Recipient or, subject to the 
prior no-objections of the Association, attended overseas by MPW’s and 
MRRD’s staff, including the purchase and publications of material, 
rental of facilities, course fees and travel and subsistence allowances for 
trainees.  
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2013. 
Page  14
12 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
 “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010. 
5. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement for a National 
Emergency Rural Access Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated March 10, 2008 as amended to the date of this Agreement (Grant H344-
AF). 
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 1 of the Original 
Financing Agreement. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006 and May 2010. 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
Page  15
13 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures 
(fn13)
 a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (
fn 14) 
or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines 
(fn 15) 
that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a 
Bank financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings 
pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the 
procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction 
by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross 
debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that 
the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid 
under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, 
for the purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the 
Page  16
14 
 
Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. 
In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining the 
process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, 
and explaining how cross-debarments will
 be posted on the Bank’s 
website and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.”
 
