Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
December 27, 2010 
 
H.E. Omar Zakhilwal 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance  
Kabul,  
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
Excellency: 
 
Subject:  National Emergency Rural Access Project  
 
Amendment to the ARTF Grant Agreement (TF095297-AF) 
 
We refer to the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund Grant Agreement dated 
October 20, 2009
 (the “Grant Agreement”) between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
(the “Recipient”) and the International Development Association, acting as administrator 
of the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (the “Administrator”) whereby the 
Administrator extended a grant to the Recipient in an amount of thirty million United 
States dollars (US$30,000,000) for the co-financing of the National Emergency Rural 
Access Project (the “Project”). 
We further refer to the letter dated October 5, 2010 from Dr. Mohammad Mustafa 
Mastoor, Deputy Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Recipient requesting additional 
financing to cover the Project’s financial gap and an extension of the Grant Closing Date 
so as to enable the Project achieve its development objectives. 
In light of the foregoing, and after due consideration and approval of the proposed 
amendment and additional financing by the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund 
Management Committee, we propose to hereby amend the Grant Agreement as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 of the Grant Agreement is amended to read: 
“1.01  The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of 
Various Funds, dated July 31, 2010 (‘Standard Conditions’) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.” 
2. 
Section 2.01 of the Grant Agreement is amended to read: 
Page  2
H.E. Omar Zakhilwal 
-2- 
December 27, 2010 
 
“2.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (‘Project’).  To this end, the 
Recipient shall carry out Part A and parts of Part C of the Project through 
MPW and Part B and parts of Part C of the Project through MRRD, in 
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions.” 
3. 
Section 3.01 of the Grant Agreement is amended to read: 
“3.01 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount 
equal to eighty million United States Dollars (US$80,000,000) (‘Grant’) 
to assist in financing the Project.” 
4. 
Schedule 1 of the Grant Agreement is amended to read:  
“SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in enabling the 
population living in its rural areas, to benefit from year-round access to basic 
services and facilities, through the rehabilitation and maintenance of rural access 
infrastructure under the Recipient’s National Rural Access Program.  
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
:
Improvement of Secondary Roads
1. 
Carrying out Road Works for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of 
selected secondary rural roads. 
2.  
Carrying out emergency repair work of roads and bridges following 
natural disasters. 
3.  
Management, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework. 
4. 
Strengthening the capacity of MPW to coordinate and manage the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, including provision of 
consultants’ services and payment of operating costs. 
Part B
:
Improvement of Tertiary Roads
1. 
Carrying out Road Works for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of 
selected tertiary rural roads. 
2.  
Carrying out emergency repair work of roads and bridges following 
natural disasters. 
Page  3
H.E. Omar Zakhilwal 
-3- 
December 27, 2010 
 
3. 
Carrying out a program for the routine maintenance of roads already 
rehabilitated under NEEP 1 and NEEPRA through the provision of 
Routine Maintenance Grants to local communities through their CDCs. 
4.  
Management, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework. 
5. 
Strengthening the capacity of MRRD to coordinate and manage the 
implementation of Part B of the Project, including provision of 
consultants’ services and payment of operating costs. 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening, Project Management and Program 
Development
1. 
Development of a rural roads management system including: (i) 
formulation and implementation of a rural access strategy; (ii) 
establishing a maintenance mechanism and maintenance program for the 
short and medium term, and supporting its first year of implementation. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of: (a) key staff of MRRD and MPW charged 
with managing the rural roads sector in, 
inter alia
,
road network 
management, public procurement, financial management, engineering 
skills, English and computer literacy skills, reporting and geographic 
information systems; and (b) national works contractors and engineering 
firms involved in implementing the Project in, 
inter alia
,
procurement 
and contract management, all through the provision of technical advisory 
services and formal and on-the-job training. 
3. 
Provision of support to the entities charged with implementing the 
Project, including management support and operating costs of NCU, 
supporting monitoring and evaluation activities, audits, safeguards and 
fiduciary support services of MPW and MRRD, and provision of 
reporting and technical support to the Steering Committee.  
5. 
A new paragraph 3 is introduced to Section I.B of Schedule 2 to the Grant 
Agreement, which reads: 
“3. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Recipient shall, by no 
later than December 31, 2011:  
(i) 
develop, adopt and implement a roads network planning and 
prioritization mechanism, including basic rural access standards 
and roads specifications, satisfactory to the Administrator, to be 
consistently applied by MPW and MRRD in the selection of 
secondary and tertiary roads for reconstruction, rehabilitation 
and/or maintenance works; and 
(ii) 
cause MPW and MRRD to establish a robust input price 
database and costs estimation system, satisfactory to the 
Administrator.” 
Page  4
H.E. Omar Zakhilwal 
-4- 
December 27, 2010 
 
6. 
A new Subsection E is added before Section I.F of Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement, 
which reads: 
“
E. 
Routine Maintenance Grants under Part B(3) of the Project 
“1. 
(a) 
MRRD shall work with Facilitating Partners, identified in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Manual, and/or the Implementation Consultant to assist CDCs in 
the implementation of Routine Maintenance Grant activities, 
including providing procurement support, construction quality 
assurance and control, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting. 
 
(b) 
The MRRD PIU shall, in accordance with the criteria set out in 
the Project Implementation Manual, identify roads to be 
maintained with the support of financing from Routine 
Maintenance Grants.  
 
(c) 
The MRRD PIU shall identify CDCs that fully satisfy the 
eligibility criteria specified in the Project Implementation 
Manual, to be responsible for implementing the identified 
Routine Maintenance Grant activities under the facilitation and 
technical guidance of Facilitating Partners and/or the 
Implementation Consultant. Several CDCs may combine 
together to carry out such maintenance activities of common 
interest and benefit by pooling together their Routine 
Maintenance Grant entitlements. 
 
(d) 
The MRRD PIU shall, when evaluating each potential CDC’s 
eligibility to carry out Routine Maintenance Grant activities, 
determine, 
inter alia
,
whether the CDC or CDCs, with the 
support of Facilitating Partners and/or the Implementation 
Consultant, have capacity to carry out, manage and maintain the 
road(s) in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, environmental and managerial standards. 
(e) 
If an activity to be financed by a Routine Maintenance Grant has 
been assessed to have potential large or medium scale 
environmental or social impacts, an Environmental Management 
Plan shall be prepared by the relevant Facilitating Partner and/or 
the Implementation Consultant jointly with the respective 
CDC(s) before the Routine Maintenance Grant can be awarded 
to the relevant CDC(s). 
2. 
The Recipient, through MRRD, shall make part of the proceeds of the 
Grant available, as Routine Maintenance Grants, to CDCs under 
agreements, each to be entered into by a representative of the CDC or 
CDCs and the Recipient, with terms and conditions set out in the Project 
Implementation Manual.  Each such agreement shall, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
require the CDC to carry out the activity financed by the Routine 
Maintenance Grant with due diligence and efficiency and in 
Page  5
H.E. Omar Zakhilwal 
-5- 
December 27, 2010 
 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and 
managerial standards, and maintain adequate records for the 
work concerned; 
(ii) 
require that all goods, works, and services required for the 
activity financed by the Routine Maintenance Grant be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; 
(iii) 
require that all goods, works, and services be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the activity approved to be financed by the 
Routine Maintenance Grant;  
(iv)  
require that the Routine Maintenance Grant not finance or 
support the cultivation of poppy; 
(v) 
permit the Recipient to inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the Association if the Association shall so 
request, any goods, works, plants and construction included in 
the activity financed by the Routine Maintenance Grant, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;  
(vi) 
require that the activities financed by the Routine Maintenance 
Grant comply with the environmental and social standards set 
forth in the Environmental and Social Management Framework; 
and 
(viii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the CDC to the use of the 
proceeds of the Routine Maintenance Grant upon the failure by 
the CDC to perform any of its obligations under the legal 
agreement.
”
7. 
Section I.F of Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement is amended to read: 
“F. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the
 ‘Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants’, dated October 15, 2006 (‘Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines’), with the modifications set forth in Section II of the 
Appendix to this Agreement.”
 
8. 
Paragraph 1 in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement is amended to 
read: 
“1. 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.  
All goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in: 
Page  6
H.E. Omar Zakhilwal 
-6- 
December 27, 2010 
 
(a) S
ection I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010 (‘Procurement Guidelines’) in the 
case of goods and works, and Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010 (‘Consultant Guidelines’) in the case 
of consultants’ services; and 
(b) the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in 
the procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the 
Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant 
Guidelines (‘Procurement Plan’).” 
9. 
The table in paragraph 2 of Section IV.A of the Grant Agreement is amended to 
read: 
“Category 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in 
USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods, works consultants’ 
services, training, Routine 
Maintenance Grants and 
Incremental Operating Costs 
under the Project 
80,000,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
80,000,000”  
10. 
The paragraph underneath the table set out in paragraph 2 of Section IV.A of 
Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement is amended to read: 
“For purposes of the above table of Eligible Expenditures, the following terms 
have the following meaning:  
(a) 
‘Incremental Operating Costs’ means incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, support and management including 
the rental of office space, the operation, maintenance, rental and 
insurance of vehicles, fuel costs, communications supplies and charges, 
advertisement expenses, books and periodicals, office administration and 
maintenance costs, bank transaction charges, utility charges, domestic 
travel and per diem, and incremental salaries of MRRD and MPW staff 
on account of Project implementation;  
(b) 
“Routine Maintenance Grants’ means grants made available by the 
Recipient to CDCs to finance the cost of goods, works and services for 
road maintenance under Part B(3) of the Project; and 
Page  7
H.E. Omar Zakhilwal 
-7- 
December 27, 2010 
 
(c) 
‘Training’ means the reasonable costs of trainings, workshops and 
conferences conducted in the territory of the Recipient or, subject to the 
prior no-objections of the Administrator, attended overseas by MPW’s 
and MRRD’s staff, including the purchase and publications of material, 
rental of facilities, course fees and travel and subsistence allowances for 
trainees.  
11. 
Paragraph 2 in Section IV.B of Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement is amended to 
read:  
“2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard 
Conditions is December 31, 2013.” 
12. The
 new title “Section I Definitions” is introduced in the first line of the 
Appendix to the Grant Agreement and two new definitions are incorporated to the 
Appendix, which read: 
“24. 
‘Community Development Council’ and the acronym ‘CDC’ mean a 
community-based decision making body that includes a chairperson, vice-
chairperson, secretary, and treasurer, and its responsible for, 
inter alia
,
preparing proposals for, and implementing works financed by, Routine 
Maintenance Grants. 
25. 
‘Facilitating Partners’ means national or international non-governmental 
organizations, agencies and/or consultants that will assist the Recipient in 
carrying out Routine Maintenance Grant activities under Part B(3) of the 
Project.” 
13. 
A
new “Section II” is introduced to the Appendix to the Grant Agreement after 
definition 25, which reads: 
“
Section II.  The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as 
follows:
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added 
to read as follows: 
 
‘…(b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related 
actions to be imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member 
Country) and all other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan 
proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
been debarred by another financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in 
fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the 
use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.’ 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
‘… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies 
and procedures 
(fn13)
 a Borrower (other than a Member Country) 
(fn 14)
 or 
Page  8
H.E. Omar Zakhilwal 
-8- 
December 27, 2010 
 
an individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such 
Borrower, individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or 
for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; 
(ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, for 
example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the 
preparation or implementation of the project or any other project 
financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines 
(fn 15)
 that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with 
which the Bank has entered into an agreement for the mutual 
enforcement of debarment decisions has declared such person or entity 
ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any 
project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices 
in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.
’
Footnotes:
‘13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be 
awarded a Bank financed contract upon completion of sanctions 
proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or 
early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing 
sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier 
with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the 
firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.’ 
 
‘14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the 
national government or of any of its political or administrative 
subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and agencies that 
are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement 
Guidelines or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant 
Guidelines.’ 
 
‘15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related 
procedures, for the purpose of making such determinations. The 
procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of 
sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted 
an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in 
implementing debarments by other financiers, and explaining how 
Page  9
H.E. Omar Zakhilwal 
-9- 
December 27, 2010 
 
cross-
debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website and 
otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.’” 
Unless the context otherwise requires, and except where otherwise defined in this 
letter of amendment (the “Amendment Letter”), all capitalized terms contained herein 
shall have the meaning given to them in the Grant Agreement.  
All of the terms and conditions of the Grant Agreement that have not been 
amended pursuant to this Amendment Letter shall remain unchanged and in full force and 
effect. 
Please confirm your agreement to the amendments set forth above by signing and 
dating the form of confirmation on the enclosed two copies of this Amendment Letter, 
returning one fully executed original to us at your earliest convenience, and retaining one 
original for your records.  
This Amendment Letter shall enter into effect as of the date of countersignature 
by the duly authorized representative of the Recipient, upon the Administrator’s receipt 
of the above referred fully executed original.  
Sincerely, 
I
NTERNATIONAL 
D
EVELOPMENT 
A
SSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Usman Qamar 
Usman Qamar 
Acting Country Director for Afghanistan 
South Asia Region 
 
C
ONFIRMED
 and 
$
*5(('
 on behalf of  
the 
I
SLAMIC 
R
EPUBLIC OF 
A
FGHANISTAN
 
/s/ Omar Zakhilwal 
 
Name: Dr. Omar Zakhilwal 
 
Title: 
Minister of Finance 
 
Date: 
December 27, 2010 
 
