Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.
29395
:
Project Name 
Development Support Credit II 
Region 
South Asia 
Sector 
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 
Project ID 
P083887 
Borrower(s) 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
Implementing Agency 
Finance Division, Ministry of Finance 
Environment Assessment 
OD 4.01 applies?  [ ] Yes  [X ] No 
Date PID Prepared 
June 14, 2004 
Date of Appraisal  
June 15, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
July 27, 2004 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Bangladesh continues to face a daunting development challenge, despite faster economic growth and 
improvements in most social indicators than comparable low-income countries. It has achieved noticeable 
progress in improving life expectancy, lowering fertility, expanding immunization and lowering child mortality, 
raising school enrolment, narrowing gender gap, empowering women, improving food security, reducing poverty 
and helping the vulnerable poor. The GDP growth averaged more than 5 percent a year during the 1990s, but 
structural obstacles discouraged the investment needed to generate higher employment and left half the population 
in poverty. The Government has pursued ambitious reforms to stabilize the economy and improve its medium-
term structure with the objective of accelerating growth and poverty reduction. The fiscal deficit has been  
controlled, monetary conditions tightened and external reserves increased. The reform of loss-making state banks 
(NCBs) and enterprises (SOEs), opening of the economy and actions to address governance issues have been 
initiated. The program has been supported through a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) supported 
by the IMF and by the first Development Support Credit (DSC-I), approved by the World Bank in June 2003. 
Macroeconomic policies have remained broadly on track, and the Government has progressed selectively with 
structural and institutional reforms despite an increasingly difficult political situation. Public administration  
reforms have been initiated. The Government is undertaking reforms in procurement, establishment of an Anti-
Corruption Commission and separation of executive and judiciary. It has decided to adopt international 
accounting and auditing standards fully through legislation and regulation.  The Government has also outlined a 
strategy to modernize tax administration and reform the police services.  
 
Consultations are being held on the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, with a view to completing a full 
PRSP by the end of 2004. The Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, published in March 2003, aimed to 
accelerate pro-poor economic growth, foster the human development of the poor, advance the position of women, 
strengthen social protection, support local participation, reduce inequality and care for the environment.   
 
The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board in 2000, included programmatic lending 
in support of reforms and selected investment operations aligned with the priorities in the I-PRSP. The CAS 
Progress Report was presented to the Board in June 2003. The current series of annual single tranche DSCs 
supports economy-wide reforms. The main focus is on the growth agenda and on reforming the public sector. 
Reforms in the social sector are being supported through other sector-wide and investment operations, including 
an education sector adjustment credit. A new CAS, aligned with the Government’s PRSP, is being prepared. 
 
2. 
Operation Objectives  
 
The Credit aims to enhance Bangladesh’s growth and poverty reduction prospects through continued support to 
implementation in key areas of the country’s poverty reduction strategy. One key area of support is satisfactory 
Page  2
implementation of the agreed macroeconomic framework under the PRGF.  Other areas are : preparation for 
privatization of an NCB, and management support for three other NCBs; issuance of prudential regulations in 
banking; closure and downsizing of selected state-owned enterprises; and retirement of workers.  
 
The improvements supported in the energy sector include : financial action plan and restructuring of debts and 
arrears of power entities; dissemination of key performance indicators; corporatization of at least two power 
distribution companies; unbundling, and financial restructuring in the gas sectors; appointment of functionaries of 
the Energy Regulatory Commission; and energy price adjustments.  
 
In governance, the operation is supporting actions in a number of areas : appointment of members of the 
independent Anti-Corruption Commission and making it operational;  wider anti-corruption measures, including 
reforms in banking, SOEs, tax administration, public procurement; tracking of public spending leakages; re-
establishment of Public Accounts Committee; and actions to strengthen the independence of the Office of the 
Auditor and Comptroller General 
 
The operation is supporting improvements in selected areas of public administration ; personnel management; 
compensation system; and merit-based promotion for senior civil service positions. The Cabinet Committee on 
Good Governance has initiated the groundwork for public administration reforms in a number of areas.  A report 
by a Government Secretary, including recommendations on government restructuring, is expected to be 
considered by the Government. A program for outsourcing support services is also being supported.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Overall progress with reforms supported under DSC-II has been good, even though implementation of  some 
measures has been slower than anticipated.   Macroeconomic management continues to be prudent, and the 
Government has made progress in some key areas of reform in FY04.   These include: reduction in manufacturing 
SOE losses; measures to improve management of NCBs; separation of the executive and judiciary; and a start to 
the process of choosing members of the independent Anti-Corruption Commission and the Energy Regulatory 
Commission.  Success had been somewhat mixed, particularly in a politically difficult situation but there is broad 
support to maintain sound fundamental macroeconomic and poverty reduction policies in the medium- and long-
run.  Implementation of the I-PRSP agenda and the preparation of the full PRSP, to be completed by December 
2004, are proceeding well.  Other development partners, including IMF, ADB, Japan and DFID, have indicated 
their willingness to support the Government in implementing the strategy.  The proposed Credit is the second in a 
planned series of programmatic operations in the context of a medium-term reform framework, alongside the 
PRGF supported by the IMF. Completion of the PRSP by end-December 2004 could open the way for a PRSC 
operation next year, assuming good progress in public expenditure management, including alignment with 
priorities of  PRSP and related programs.  Appraisal was completed on June 15, 2004. Negotiations are planned 
back to back before the end of June, 2004. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The Credit amount is US200 million and this will be disbursed in one tranche.  
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Finance Division of the Ministry of Finance is responsible for coordinating and overseeing the 
implementation of reforms supported under the operation. Technical working groups are working in various areas 
of reform, with considerable technical assistance from the IMF, World Bank and other donors. The I-PRSP 
outlines a monitoring framework, which includes monitoring indicators, data sources, and institutional 
arrangements for monitoring and providing feedback to policymakers.  Sources include existing data as well as 
planned annual surveys for tracking intermediate indicators related to access, usage, and satisfaction with public 
services.  The I-PRSP signals the 
Government’s intention to rely increasingly on third party data in order to 
minimize problems of unreliability associated with administered data reported by official implementing agencies.  
Page  3
Tracking and reporting spending are being piloted under the Financial Management Reform Program, supported 
by DFID, in three social sectors and covering 30 districts.
 
A
National Poverty Focal Point (NPFP) has been created in the General Economics Division (GED) of the 
Planning Commission to monitor poverty and track progress in implementing the national strategy for economic 
growth and poverty reduction.  The NPFP is expected to grow and function as an institutionally effective and 
technically competent Poverty Monitoring Unit with strong inter-ministerial linkages and interactions with 
various stakeholders outside the Government. Under the ongoing PRSP preparation work, the poverty diagnostics, 
drawing on quantitative and qualitative information, will be used to set outcome-oriented targets.  
 
These efforts to strengthen monitoring and evaluation systems provide an excellent opportunity to evaluate the 
various reforms supported under DSC-II.  They should further improve the quality of information and analysis for 
decision-making and inculcate a stronger results orientation.  Much work lies ahead in improving data collection, 
analysis and its linkages with policy and indicators.  One of the key outputs of the monitoring system envisaged is 
an annual report on poverty reduction and social development, providing an overview of progress in achieving 
economic growth, human development, poverty reduction, gender equality and analysis of factors behind the 
observed trends and their policy implications.  The review of progress in reforms supported under the operation 
will be largely based on the monitoring indicators (benchmarks) and the goals of the program.  
 
6.   
Benefits and Risks
 
A. Benefits 
The reform program supported under DSC-II has substantial potential benefits.  The implementation of DSC-I has 
already shown good outcomes in terms of exports, economic growth, and better incentives for private sector 
investment.  As indicated by past experience in Bangladesh and elsewhere, these  have  positive implications for 
poverty reduction.  Over the longer term, progress in institutional reforms supported by the credits is expected to 
promote sustained macroeconomic stability, more effective government institutions, private sector development, 
including privatization, improved public service delivery, and enhanced transparency and good governance, 
resulting in  reduced corruption and improvement in the climate for private investment.  
B. Risks and mitigation of risks 
As the 2006 general election draws closer, the pace of reform could slow as a result of politics becoming even 
more confrontational and vested interests more vocal in their opposition to reforms. Resistance to large-scale 
reforms could also grow if the social impact of reforms is not mitigated adequately. The Government has done 
well thus far in actively consulting labor leaders and workers and ensuring that their concerns are taken into 
account in designing retrenchment programs. The Government needs to build strong internal agreement among 
ministries and in Parliament and the country on the PRSP. Governance problems could affect growth and service 
delivery to the poor, and pose a serious risk to the sustainability and efficacy of reform efforts in Bangladesh.  
The Government, supported by the donor community, including under the Bank’s DSCs, has already made 
impressive inroads on several fronts to address this.  Fungibility of funds implies that budgetary resources could 
be diverted or misused, which poses a particular risk to operations, such as DSC II. The Government, however, 
has a good record of allocating public resources to social spending and infrastructure. Financial management is 
being strengthened. The new procurement regulations should reduce the scope for misuse of budgetary funds in 
contracting.  Tracking studies of major spending on health and education should also help to curb leakages. 
External oversight by the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) is also being strengthened. 
Garments exports comprise three-quarters of total exports, catering mainly to the EU and US markets, where 
Bangladesh has enjoyed quota free access due to its LDC status. The scheduled removal of export quotas under 
the Multifiber Agreement at end-2004, therefore, poses considerable risks to the economy.  The needed actions 
are building of foreign exchange reserves, promotion of export diversification, reduction of anti-export bias, and 
improvement in the investment climate.  
 
The level of risks of the operation is assessed to be medium.  The Government’s pro-reform stance and 
commitment to the development of a comprehensive PRSP and its effective implementation, as also reflected by 
Page  4
its recent policy statements at the Bangladesh Development Forum in May 2004, provide a reasonable basis to 
expect that the above risks will be mitigated to a considerable extent. The support for prudent policies and 
institutional reforms, particularly improvements in governance, under the proposed operation, reinforced by the 
IMF-supported PRGF, and  other programs/actions supported by the Bank and other donors, is likely to reduce the 
above-mentioned risks considerably. Bangladesh has graduated from a low case to a base case through a more 
pro-reform stance, and is preparing its poverty reduction strategy and will need considerable support from the 
Bank and other development partners to implement the strategy. 
 
6. 
Poverty Category and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty Category 
 
An increase is natural gas prices is expected to have little impact on the poor because only 4% of households, 
mostly the urban non-poor, have access to piped gas, which is priced much below the cost of substitute fuels. An 
increase in the price of diesel would raise the cost of transportation and irrigation, but its adverse impact on the 
poor would depend on the scale of any adjustments in light of the sharp rise in global oil prices, together with any 
offsetting measures by the Government. Taxes on petroleum products were reduced in the recent FY2005 Budget. 
With the expansion in investment and employment, and continued rise in wages of daily laborers, the adverse 
impact of modest energy price adjustments on real incomes of the poor is likely to be limited. 
 
The closure or privatization/downsizing of SOEs has led to some loss of jobs in FY04 that has been much more 
limited than in FY03. Exit surveys were conducted for workers and staff of two jute mills about to be closed. The 
findings reveal that the workers were competing for the VRS as they would like to leave the industry with 
uncertain prospects, and obtain some capital to invest in income-earning assets or businesses.  
 
The Government will provide a safety net program for workers participating in a voluntary retirement scheme 
(VRS), and undertake a social tracking program to monitor the socioeconomic condition of workers taking early 
retirement, supported under the Bank-financed Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization Project. The safety net 
and social tracking program would be guided by a Steering Committee in the project coordinating unit at the 
Ministry of Finance and implemented by experienced NGOs,  training and research organizations. The safety net 
program would include exit survey and counseling for all worker participating in the VRS and establishment of a 
data base, retraining, micro-credit/leasing, children's education fund, adolescent program, and health 
insurance/services. As part of the safety net program, initially the tracking survey would be conducted every three 
months, and later six-monthly assessment will be conducted.  
 
Environment Aspects 
 
The policy measures supported by the Credit are not expected to have a negative impact on the environment 
(category C). The Credit is supporting the preparation of a joint Country Environmental Analysis (CEA), 
focussing on environmental health, natural resource productivity, and vulnerability to natural disasters.  Other 
actions supported in this area include announcement of an action plan to phase out grossly-polluting  vehicles and 
their replacement by cleaner ones, and approval of National Water Management Plan.  
 
7. Contact 
point 
 
Anthony Richard Howe Bottrill (SASPR), Task Team Leader 
 
8. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Page  5
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Or 
 
Public Information Centre Bangladesh 
 
The World Bank Office Dhaka 
 
3 A Paribagh, Dhaka1000, Tel 9669301-8
 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/bd
 
