Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3961 BD 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Development Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 3, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3961 BD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 3, 2004, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
June 27, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
accelerate poverty reduction through structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit, 
in one single tranche, as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through May 1, 
2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in 
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by 
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Anti-corruption Commission” means the anti-corruption commission to 
be established by the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
“BADC” means Bangladesh Agriculture Development Corporation; 
 
(d) 
“BCIC” means Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(e) 
“BPDB” means Bangladesh Power Development Board; 
 
(f) 
“BSFIC” means Bangladesh Sugar and  Food Industries 
Corporation; 
 
(g) 
“DESA” means Dhaka Electricity Supply Authority; 
 
(h) 
“Energy Regulatory Commission” means the energy regulatory 
commission established by the Borrower; 
 
(i) 
“GTCL” means the Borrower’s Gas Transmission Company 
Limited; 
 
(j) 
“NCBs” means the Borrower’s nationalized commercial banks as set out 
in Bangladesh Banks (Nationalization) Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 26 of 1972) and include, 
for purposes of this Agreement, Sonali Bank, Janata Bank, and the Rupali Bank; and 
 
(k) 
“SOE” means state-owned enterprises. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty six million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 136, 800,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Page  6
-
4
-
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 
2015, and ending July 15, 2044. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on July 15, 2024, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.   
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrow
er’s per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
Page  7
-
5
-
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the abovementioned repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Associ
ation determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination  
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, 
or Deputy Secretary or Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary or Joint Chief, 
or Deputy Chief or Senior Assistant Chief or Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations 
Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the People’s Republic 
 
of
Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
 
642226 SETU BJ 
88028113088  
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
By /s/ Badiur Rahman  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ David Hughart  
Acting Country Director 
Bangladesh 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  12
-
10
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as 
environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association);  
 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
Financial Sector/NCBs
1. 
The Borrower has appointed a Financial Adviser to bring Rupali Bank to the 
point of sale by the end-2004. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has put on bid a contract for management advisers for Sonali 
Bank, and has taken all necessary measures to put out for new tender a contract for Janata 
Bank, by no later than December 31, 2004. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has: (i) at the Cabinet level, approved the amendments to the law 
relating to prudential regulations on loan classification; (ii) through its Ministry of 
Finance, agreed to submit the amendments referred to in (i) above to the Parliament at the 
earliest opportunity; and (iii) through the Governor of Bangladesh Bank, made 
commitments to issue all necessary circulars to align loan classification with international 
practice in phases agreed with the Association upon completion of a study by December 
31, 2004; the first such circular to initiate implementation to be issued by March 31, 
2005. 
 
SOE Reform
4. 
The Borrower has: (i) transferred to the private sector 13 SOEs and issued tender 
notices for the sale of five more; (ii) adopted a policy of partial closure and shutting down 
operations in the face of union opposition to outright closure; and (iii) five firms have 
been downsized and 10,000 workers retired or separated. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has completed preparatory work to restructure and downsize 
BADC, BCIC, BSFIC. 
 
Energy Sector
6. 
The Borrower has prepared the terms of reference for advisers to complete the 
restructuring of the debts and arrears of the power sector and adopt a financial action plan 
to prevent the growth of new arrears and to begin publishing key performance indicators 
of sector enterprises. 
 
7. 
The Borrower has agreed: (i) to reduce its payables to BPDB and DESA to not 
more than three months of accounts payable by July 7, 2004; (ii) to set up a joint 
quarterly monitoring system to monitor the payables of  all the ministries to electricity 
utilities to ensure that they remain at no more than three months of accounts; and  
(iii) that BPDB and DESA shall reduce receivables from autonomous bodies and private 
Page  15
-
13
-
consumers to not more than six months of accounts receivables by December 2004, and 
not more than three months of accounts receivables by June 2005. 
 
8. 
The Borrower: (i) has gazetted an increase in the prices of gas by 3.5 percent, to 
be effective from July 1, 2004, and has agreed to an additional 2.27 percent increase to be 
effective from January 1, 2005; and (ii) has agreed that thereafter prices will be adjusted 
monthly in line with the formula agreed with the Association, so that if the estimated 
adjustment is greater than 10 percent prices will be adjusted immediately, otherwise, they 
will be adjusted on April 1 and October 1 each year in line with the formula. 
 
9.  
The Borrower has completed the corporatization of two power distribution 
companies in the West and North-West Zones, which have been registered as companies. 
 
10.  
GTCL has taken over all gas transmission assets of all other entities of 
Petrobangla.   
 
11.  
The Borrower has: (i) appointed two commissioners to the Energy Regulatory 
Commission, which has begun operating under an acting Chairman; and (ii) launched the 
process of selecting a chairman for the Energy Regulatory Commission. 
 
Broad-based Governance
12. 
The Borrower has taken all necessary measures to appoint the members and 
Chairman for the independent Anti-Corruption Commission and to make the commission 
operational by no later than December 31, 2004.  
 
13. 
The Borrower has introduced a broad range of measures, e.g. in banking, SOE 
closures, tax administration, procurement reform and measures to track public spending 
leakages, which will reduce the scope for corruption.  
 
14. 
The Borrower has adopted new procurement regulations and is finalizing 
standard bidding documents to promote compliance, and has agreed to present to 
Parliament a procurement law, including provisions for concessions contracting/BOT 
before June 2005.
 
15. 
The Borrower has established a Public Accounts Committee.  
 
16. 
The Borrower has identified and initiated actions to strengthen the independence 
of the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association. 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
Public Administration
17. 
The Borrower has announced and initiated a new personnel management system  
including extended merit-based promotions, transfers within clusters of ministries, 
revised compensation and enhanced training.  
 
18. 
The Borrower has started the implementation of a program for outsourcing 
support services to the private sector. 
 
