Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20167-BIH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.4 MILLION
(US$35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR THE
THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
MAY 24, 2001
Energy Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM)
1 KM = US$0.47
US$1 = 2.14KM
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH       Bosnia and Herzegovina                    N.B.F.   Not Bank Financed
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy               NCB       National Competitive Bidding
DFID      Department for International Development (UK)  NGOs    Non-Government Organizations
DM        Deutsche Mark                             NORAD  Norwegian Agency for Development
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and                Cooperation
Development                               OECD    Organization for Econornic Cooperation and
EC        European Commission                                 Development
EIB       European Investment Bank                  OECF    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
EPBiH    Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina     PCBs    Polychlorinated Byphenyls
EPHZHB  Elektroprivreda of the Croatian Community of   PIU    Project Implementation Unit
Herzeg-Bosnia                             PMRs    Project Management Reports
EPRS      Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska          PIP       Project Implementation Plan
EMP       Environmental Management Plan             RRTF    Refugee Return Task Force
EU        European Union                            RS        Republika Srpska
FBiH      Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina      RSMEI  Republika Srpska Ministry of Energy and
FMERI   Federation Ministry of Energy, Mining and             Industry
Industry                                  SCADA   Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                    SDR       Special Drawing Rights
HPP       Hydropower Plant                          SECO    State Secretariat for Economic Affairs
IC       International Community                             (Switzerland)
ICB       International Competitive Bidding         SIL       Specific Investment Loan
ICR       Implementation Comnpletion Report         SOE       Statement of Expenditure
JICA      Japanese International Cooperation Agency  TPP      Thermal Power Plant
IDA       International Developmnent Association    UCTE    European Union for Coordination of
IS       International Shopping                               Transmnission of Electricity
ISO       Independent System Operator               USAID   United States Agency for International
JUGEL    Yugoslav Electric Power Industry                     Developmnent
LACI      Loan Accounting Change Initiative         USTDA   United States Trade and Development Ageac),
LIB       Limnited International Bidding            ZEKC    Joint Power Coordinating Center
LIBOR    London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
LRMC    Long-run marginal cost
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:    Henk Busz
Task Team Leader:   Iftikhar Khalil



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                          Page
1. Project development objective                                           3
2. Key performance indicators                                              3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the  3
project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                              3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices      6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                      7
2. Key policy and institutional reforrns supported by the project          9
3. Benefits and target population                                         10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                          12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection              16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development      18
agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design               19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                       19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                            1 9
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                              20
2. Financial                                                              21
3. Technical                                                              26
4. Institutional                                                          26
5. Environmental                                                          29
6. Social                                                                 30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                     32
F. Sustainability and Risks



1. Sustainability                                                         32
2. Critical risks                                                         33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                         35
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                36
2. Other                                                                  36
H. Readiness for Implementation                                              38
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                             38
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          39
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   56
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               66
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       75
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     82
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   83
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  84
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            86
Annex 1 1: Review of Financial Management Arrangements                                    88
MAP(S)
IBRD 30803 Bosnia and Herzegovina: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSEG
Date: May 24, 2001                                Team Leader: Mian Iftikhar Khalil
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager/Director: Henk Busz
Project ID: P058521                               Sector(s): PD - Distribution & Transmission
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    []Grant      [ Guarantee       1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $35.0 (equivalent of SDR 26.4 Million)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50%                            Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                       0.00           0.00          0.00
IDA                                                            0.00          35.00         35.00
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                           0.60          19.20         19.80
BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                           0.00           1.00          1.00
DEVELOPMENT
EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND                           7.00          37.20         44.20
DEVELOPMENT
EC ASSISTANCE FOR SOUTH EAST EUROPE                            0.00           1.80          1.80
EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK                                       8.10          45.50         53.60
GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN                                            0.00          18.00         18.00
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                                 0.00           2.90          2.90
NORWEGIAN AGENCY FOR DEV. COOP. (NORAD)                        0.00           6.20          6.20
OTHER SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                            21.00           0.00         21.00
OTHER FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                           0.00          13.60         13.60
SWISS AGENCY FOR DEV. & COOP. (SDC)                            0.00          14.00         14.00
Total:                                                        36.70         194.40        231.10
Borrower: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Responsible agency: EPBIH, EPHZHB, AND EPRS
Address: See below.



Other Agency(ies):
Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina
Address: Vilsonovo Setaliste 15, 71000 Sarajevo, Elosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Ognjen Markovic, Acting General Manager
Tel: 387 33 47 24 81                 Fax: 387 33 65 42 66
Elektroprivreda of the Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia (EPHZHB)
Address: Mile Budaka 106A, Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Matan Zaric, General Manager
Tel: 387 36 31 08 47                 Fax: 387 36 31 71 57
Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska (EPRS)
Address: Luke Vukalovica 3, Trebinje, Bosnia and ]Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Svetozar Acimovic, General Manager
Tel: 387 59 26 00 91                Fax:  387 59 26 00 70
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY    ~ 2002       2003        2004      2005
Annual    5.75        13.50      13.75       2.00l
Cumulative    5.75       19.25      33.00      35.00            l
Project implementation period: October 1, 2001 - September 30, 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2001  Expected closing date:  03/31/2005
OCS PAD Fd, R 
-2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to continue the post-conflict reconstruction program in the power
sector and to ensure access to reliable, lower cost electricity, to be supplied with reduced environmental and
safety risks, and improved cost recovery by suppliers.
The component outputs contributing to this objective include:
(i)   increased transmission capacity;
(ii)   increased distribution capacity;
(iii)  improved operation of the BiH power system on an integrated basis;
(iv)   establishment of a legislative and regulatory framework conducive to competition and eventual
privatization;
(v)    adoption and implementation of detailed power sector restructuring and privatization action plans;
(vi)  improved availability and safety at hydropower plants;
(vii)  reduced pollution at thermal power plants; and
(viii)  institution building through establishment of new management information systems.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Increased power generation and sales; avoided increase in transmission losses; reduced distribution losses;
increased gross power flows between the power companies; passage of electricity laws consistent with EU
Directives and the adopted sector policy statements; establishment of independent regulatory agencies;
adoption and implementation of action plans for sector restructuring and privatization; reduced particulate
emissions at thermal power stations; improved self-financing of investments; and improved revenue
collection relative to amounts billed.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-60             Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/18/2000
The sector-related CAS goals are to:
(i)    strengthen institutions and governance, and
(ii)   foster private sector-led growth and employment.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Reconstructing the power system. In 1990, BiH produced 12,613 Gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity
from generating plants located on its territory. Electricity consumption was 11,535 GWh. The system
comprised 13 hydropower plants with a total capacity of 2,034 megawatts (MW) and an average output of
6,922 GWh/year, and 12 thermal power plants with a total capacity of 1,957 MW and an output of 9,252
GWh in 1990. The thermal power plants were brown coal and lignite fired, with the fuel coming from
mines within BiH. BiH was responsible for operating its own system and meeting local demand. However,
being part of the former Yugoslav network, the 400 kV power grid in BiH as well as power exchanges were
controlled by the Yugoslav Electric Power Industry's (JUGEL) dispatching center in Belgrade.
- 3 -



At the beginning of 1996, more than half of the generating capacity had been put out of operation because
of direct damages, destroyed transmission lines or lack of coal. Most plants had also suffered from lack of
maintenance during the war. About 60% of the transmission network and control system in the Federation
was seriously damaged, including transmission facilities and interconnection lines to neighboring countries.
The transmission network and control system in RS were also heavily darnaged, particularly in those areas
located close to confrontation lines. The 400 kV system in BiH was almost completely out of operation
(the main exception was the Trebinje-Podgorica 400 kV transmission line). Many distribution networks
were badly damaged in both the Federation and RS as a result of fighting and lack of maintenance. Many
transformer stations, buildings, telecommunications and maintenance facilities and equipment were also
either seriously damaged or destroyed.
Rehabilitation enabled total generation to reach 10,429 GWh in 2000 (83% of the 1990 level) and
consumption within BiH to reach 9,365 GWh in 1999 (81% of the 1990 level). However, despite these
achievements, the remaining rehabilitation needs are still very large and many facilities remain to be
reconstructed. Investments are also needed to improve reliability, safety and environmental protection.
The Federation and RS governments place high priority on continued reconstruction of the power system as
one of the primary means to relaunch economic activity. IDA and other international donors have been
supporting this reconstruction, mainly through the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project (Cr.
No. 2903) (Power 1) and the Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project (Cr. No. 3071) (Power 2).
Further investments are needed to continue the post-war reconstruction program.
Improving cost recovery. All three power enterprises were severely affected during the war by revenue
constraints arising from the inability of households as well as commercial and industrial enterprises to pay
for their electricity consumption. Revenue collection during the war dropped to as low as 25% of invoiced
amounts, leading to severe cash deficits. Since the Dayton peace accord, the revenue situation of the three
enterprises, both in terms of tariff levels as well as collection performance, has improved, particularly for
EPBiH. In 2000, revenue collection by EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS reached 97%, 89% and 87%
respectively of the amounts billed. The collected revenue is estimated to have covered 132%, 127% and
123% respectively of cash expenses. In 2000, total distribution losses were reduced to 11% of electricity
entering the distribution network for EPBiH, 25% for EPHZHB and 27% for EPRS. Of these amounts
technical losses were estimated at between 10% and 12%. The rest consisted of non-technical losses, that
is unbilled consumption due to such factors as lack of meters, meter tampering or bypassing. An adverse
factor is that operating costs appear to be excessively high because of overstaffing and possible
overestimation of depreciation. The Elektroprivredas need to make further progress to reach full cost
recovery, including coverage of appropriate depreciation charges. This will require progress in increasing
billing and collection, improving cost efficiency, reducing distribution losses and increasing tariff levels, if
necessary. There is also a need for asset revaluation in order to ensure realistic depreciation charges
necessary for asset replacement. All three Elektroprivredas have been implementing recommendations for
improving billing and collection and reducing distribution losses made by a recently completed electricity
tariff study.
Improving tariff structures. In 1999, the average industrial electricity tariff rate of about US$ 0.06/kWh
(kilowatt hour) in BiH was close to the average in OECD Europe of US$ 0.07/kWh. By contrast, the
household rates of about USS 0.05/kWh was much lower than the OECD Europe average of US$
0.13/kWh. The tariff study recommended large rate increases, mainly for households, phased in over the
period 1999-2003. It also recommended the establishment of a three-block tariff structure for households,
under which the high-priced third block would compensate for the low-priced "lifeline" first block, and a
system of vouchers to allow targeted low income consumers to pay for their lifeline consumption of
-4 -



electricity. On October 1, 1999, the RS Government raised tariff rates to about the level recommended by
the study, and gave each municipality the authority to designate 6.7% of collected electricity revenue for
the reduction of arrears on previous electricity bills of specified consumer groups. The Federation
Government raised and harmonised tariff rates for EPBiH and EPHZHB in April 2001, with the increases
being concentrated on household consumers. The strategy each of the Federation and RS Governments set
out in their Electricity Policy Statement is to gradually remove the distortion between household and other
tariff rates, and provide compensation to help offset the costs to the poorest groups.
Improving power coordination between EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS. Since the war, coordination of
the power sector in BiH, both in terms of system control and technical regulation, and in terms of exchange
of electricity, has been restricted because of the breakdown of many transmission lines and the existence of
three separate vertically-integrated power enterprises.
With regard to electricity exchanges between the Elektroprivredas, these were initially in kind and
constrained so that net trade between any pair of Elektroprivredas was always zero or close to it (e.g.,
exports from one company to a service area with a power deficit of another company were offset by
imports of the same amount from a power surplus area of the other company).  The development of
commercial trade was also hindered by difficulties in making payments because of a poorly functioning
banking system. More recently, commercial exchanges have been initiated on a limited scale.
Enhancement of power exchanges would:
(i)    permit surplus power of one company to be used to alleviate shortages of another company (caused
by inadequate generation capacity or by outages of large generating units or surges in power
demand);
(ii)   reduce transmission costs by allowing the most direct routes to be used, regardless of whether these
routes cross the territories of the other companies; and
(iii)  reduce generating costs by permitting the lowest cost generating units in the country to be used at
each time of day and year. Further progress towards improved power exchanges would be
demonstrated by the establishment of more commercial trade contracts between the three
companies, and a readiness by the companies to help each other out in emergencies.
With regard to system control and technical regulation, there was before the war a single control center for
the BiH system, which coordinated plant dispatch and technical regulation. Since the war, however, a more
complex system has operated. Each Elektroprivreda has been dispatching its own power stations for the
benefit of its own consumers. For purposes of frequency control, EPRS is synchronized with the power
system of Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, while EPBiH and EPHZHB are synchronized with the power
system of Croatia. However, EPBiH provides some ancillary services free-of-charge to both EPHZHB and
EPRS. For instance, both frequency regulation and reserve for the EPHZHB service areas in Central
Bosnia are provided by EPBiH by means of the Jablanica hydropower station. Similarly Jablanica
provides frequency regulation for the EPRS service areas around Prijedor, Modrica and Derventa, as well
as power supply when EPRS cannot supply itself. In order to improve the management of the BiH system,
the three Elektroprivredas established a Joint Power Coordinating Center (ZEKC) in March 1999 to
coordinate the operation of the BiH power system in a safe, effective and efficient manner. Under the
proposed project, the Entity governments will establish an Independent System Operator (ISO) for the
entire BiH system, and the three Elektroprivredas will develop ZEKC to fulfil this role. The ISO will be
responsible for ensuring the safety, stability, and efficiency of the BiH system, and, in this context, for
ensuring the availability of all necessary ancillary services. All three Elektroprivredas have declared their
support for BiH to rejoin the European Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity (UCTE),
-5 -



and to this end have agreed that the ISO will operate the BiH system as a single control area according to
UCTE rules, within the UCTE Control Block covering Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Power sector reform. Prior to the war, BiH had a single vertically-integrated socially-owned power
company. There are currently three vertically-integrated companies (two in the Federation and one in RS),
largely serving three separate groups of consumers (Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs). The current arrangement
lacks the economies of scale and coordination that existed before the war, whilst at the same time lacking
the potential benefits of competition (lower costs and prices and greater supply quality and reliability).
Private involvement in the sector, particularly if it comes from abroad, could bring valuable expertise as
well as new resources for investment.  However, privatization may require significant third party
guarantees in order to reduce perceived risks.
The challenge for the future is to incorporate clear policies for power sector reform in the Federation and
Republika Srpska into new electricity legislation which is in tune with developments in the European
Union, to establish an independent regulatory framework, and to introduce a power sector structure which
is conducive to the emergence of both beneficial competition and privatization. To this end, the Federation
and RS Governments have, with assistance from international consultants, jointly prepared Electricity
Policy Statements that set out a coordinated program of power sector reform for BiH, and have adopted
these Statements. The Statements provide for the establishment of an Independent System Operator for the
BiH system, the early establishment of independent regulatory agencies for the electricity industry in BiH,
and the preparation of a detailed program of restructuring and privatization for the Elektroprivredas in both
Entities. The Statements aim to reform the BiH power sector in accordance with Directive 96/92 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of December 19, 1996, which establishes the conditions for a
liberalized electricity market in which power distribution companies and at least the largest final consumers
have the right to choose their electricity suppliers. The Entity Governments have presented to their
Parliaments new electricity laws, also prepared with international assistance, that incorporate these
reforms.
Restructuring the coal mine sector in the Federation. Investments have been carried out to enable the
Federation coal mines to meet the needs of the thermal power stations of Tuzla and Kakanj over the next
several years. In the medium term, the forecast needs of the power stations could be met from a small
number of low-cost mines. The other mines appear to be financially and economically unviable. A coal
sector restructuring study was completed under Power 2. The study reports identify those mines which can
be made economically viable, list investments needed to make these mines economic, and propose
appropriate measures to protect redundant coal miners and help them find alternative employment.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Providing credits to government-owned power companies is still necessary in order to restore full electricity
supply as soon as possible and enable economic recovery. Private lending or investments in the sector are
still not possible for the time being because of perceived country risks and the fact that economic recovery
is still in the early stages so that many consumers, especially in RS, cannot pay fully for their electricity.
While priority under the proposed project would continue to be given to power sector reconstruction,
improving cost recovery and tariff structures, major emphasis would also be given to improving power
coordination and power sector reform. Coal mine sector restructuring would be best handled under a
separate new project since the actions required would be quite different in nature from the investments
included under the proposed project. These actions would consist largely of social measures to help
redundant miners and their families.
-6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would focus on restoration of the 400 kV and other high voltage transmission systems,
especially reconstruction of damaged substations.  This would help BiH  to restore the pre-war
interconnections with the other parts of formner Yugoslavia and eventually to re-join the Union for the
Coordination of Transmission in Europe (UCTE). The project would also include a Supervisory Control
and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System component to improve power dispatching and facilitate the
operation of the high voltage network within BiH on an integrated basis. It would include investments in
power distribution to provide electricity to returning refugees and to reconstruct damaged facilities, thereby
relieving serious overloading in some areas and enabling reduction in the high levels of technical
distribution losses. It would provide investments at selected hydropower stations to improve safety and
plant availability. Investments at thermal power stations would be limited to reducing pollution.
Technical assistance would be provided:
(i)    for procurement and implementation of the physical components;
(ii)   to enable ZEKC to function as the Independent System Operator;
(iii)   for a survey of socially vulnerable electricity consumers;
(iv)   for corporatization and commercialization of the power sector enterprises; and
(v)    for the establishment of regulatory agencies.
Training would be included for (i), (ii), (iv) and (v).
As the investment needs for full rehabilitation of the power system are still very significant, a feasibility
study was carried out by AGRA Monenco-Teshmont to evaluate priority components and the sequence of
reconstruction implementation covering the high voltage transmission components of the BiH power
transmission system, the distribution systems of the respective Elektroprivredas, and the safety- and
availability-related rehabilitation requirements of the Trebinje, Rama and Jablanica hydropower plants.
Priorities were established for reconstruction and rehabilitation of the respective transmission facilities in
each of the areas in accordance with specific criteria.   The distribution components included in the
proposed scope of the Power 3 project represent only a part of the total rehabilitation requirements of the
distribution facilities. Similarly, significant rehabilitation of the 110 kV system is required for further
strengthening and improvement of the power system of BiH.
Costs were estimated for reconstruction and rehabilitation of each component, and contract packages
established in a manner that would permit co-financier contributions to be obtained on a packaged or
individual component basis. The economic viability of the proposed transmission, distribution and hydro
plant components was established. The Final Report was submitted by the Consultants in January 2000.
The costs and the financial and economic analyses were updated in April 2001.
The components proposed by the AGRA Monenco-Teshmont feasibility study have a total cost, including
physical and price contingencies, of about US$ 156.6 million (Variant IA). Other principal components of
the project, which were not included in the scope of the AGRA Monenco-Teshmont feasibility study,
include a SCADA and associated telecommunication system, investments at thermal power plants aimed at
reducing pollution and technical assistance.
-7 -



A Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system, comprising three regional control centers
and an overall central dispatch center, together with an associated telecommunication system will be
included under the Power 3 project to permnit nmodem integrated operation of the BiH system. The scope ot
the system and detailed technical specifications are being defined through a separate feasibility studx
funded by USTDA. The cost of the system has been estimated at US$ 44.2 million (including physical and
price contingencies). The SCADA and telecommunication facilities required at the substations to be
rehabilitated under the Power 3 project have been included in the scope defined by the AGRA
Monenco-Teshmont study.
Based on discussions with the Elektroprivredas, a review of their proposals for investments in pollutioni
control measures, and site visits to examine the present environmental conditions which the proposed
measures would mitigate, a pollution control investment program has been prepared for each of four
thermal power stations. In general, the proposed investments follow the Environmental Management Plans
(EMPs) prepared under the previous two power projects in Bosnia (Power 1 and Power 2).
The components to be financed under the project are shown below. A description is given in Annex 2.
Iii4icative   Bank       Bank-
Componnt                    Sctor          Costs %X of;0  Kinankc        'fin anc!n-i
1. Transmission lines               Distribution &      29.70      12.9      24.50       70 0
Transmission
2. Transmission substations         Distribution &      61.40      26.6       0.00        0.
Transmission
3. SCADA                            Electric Power &    44.20       19.1      0.00         00
Other Energy
Adjustment
4. Distribution                     Distribution &      42.90       18.6      0.00        ()
Transmission
5. Hydropower stations              PH                  22.60        9.8      2.90        8 t 
6. Environmental investments at     Other               16.90        7.3      0.00        0.)
thermal power plants                Environment
7. Technical assistance             Electric Power &    13.40        5.8      7.60       2 l7
Other Energy
Adjustment
Total Project Costs                  231.10      100.0      35.00     100. 
Front-end fee                     0.00        0.0       .00        0.0
Total Financing Required                    231.10      100.0      35.00     100 0(
-8 -



The specific components to be financed under the IDA Credit are:
Transmission Lines (IDA Financing US$ 24.5 million)
Reconstruction of war damage, including right-of-way clearing, replacement of damaged parts of existing
towers, construction of new towers to replace destroyed ones, dismantling of damaged insulators, hardware
and conductors and ground wires, and stringing, along the following lines:
1.    Sarajevo 10 - Mostar 4 400 kV (US$ 5.0 million)
2.     Sarajevo 10 - Sarajevo 20 400 kV (US$ 1.6 million)
3.     Mostar 4 - Gacko 400 kV (US$ 3.5 million)
4.     Visegrad - Tuzla 400 kV (US$ 3.7 million)
5.     Ugljevik - Ernestinovo 400 kV (US$ 3.7 million)
6.    Jajce - Mraclin 220 kV (US$ 0.7 million)
7.    Jajce - Prijedor 220 kV (US$ 0.6 million)
8.     Kakanj - Prijedor 220 kV (US$ 1.0 million)
9.     Prijedor - Sisak 220 kV (US$ 0.7 million)
10.   Tuzla - Gradacac - Djakovo 220 kV (US$ 1.1 million)
11.   Dubrovnik - Trebinje 220 kV (US$ 0.2 million)
12.    Mostar - Nevesinje 110 kV (US$ 2.7 million)
Hydropower Station Component (IDA Financing US$ 2.9 million)
1.    Rehabilitation of the tunnel and surge shaft at HPP Rama.
Technical Assistance Component (IDA Financing US$ 7.6 million)
I.    An international consultant to assist in procurement and supervision of the IDA-financed
components, and provide procurement training.
2.     A social assessment of socially vulnerable electricity consumers.
3.     Part of the assistance for the corporatization and commercialization of the power sector
enterprises.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As part of their preparation of the proposed project, the Governments of the two Entities have engaged in a
two phase process to establish a coordinated power sector reform program in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Under the first phase, the Entity Governments secured technical assistance in the formulation of power
sector reform policy for Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a result, Electricity Policy Statements were drafted
and approved by the Entity governments. In the second phase, the Entity Governments completed drafting
new electricity laws that reflect the approved policy statements, and have submitted the draft laws to their
Parliaments.
The project would support this coordinated power sector reform program through measures at both the
enterprise and the sectoral level, as follows:
At the enterprise level, the project would support the corporatization, commercialization, and privatization
of the three Elektroprivredas in a consistent manner, by sponsoring the following specific initiatives:
-9-



the commissioning by the Governments of the Federation and the RS of comprehensive studies of
the sequence, extent and timing of restructuring and privatization of the Elektroprivredas in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association and by consultants acceptable to
the Association, which would be completed by December 31, 2001;
on completion of the restructuring and privatization studies, the development and implementation
of detailed restructuring and privatization action plans, including implementation schedules, which
would be finalized and agreed withi the Association by February 28, 2002, with no prior
restructuring or privatization of the Elektroprivredas having taken place; in the case of EPRS, no
prior privatization of EPRS will take place other than the purchase with vouchers of warrants
under conditions acceptable to the Association, with the warrants entitling the bearer to purchase
comrnon shares upon the conversion of the constituent enterprises of EPRS into joint stock
companies, with this conversion only taking place after the action plan has been agreed upon and in
strict accordance with that plan; and
the establishment of new financial imanagement systems, based on intemational accounting
standards, in each of the Elektroprivredas by December 31, 2003.
At the sector level, the project would support the establishment of an independent regulatory framework for
the electricity industry, and the transition to integrated operation of the BiH system and to a more
competitive industry structure in accordance with EC requirements. In this respect, the project would
provide technical assistance for:
the establishment of independent Entity and State Regulatory Commissions by December 31, 2001 .
the preparation of methodologies for electricity industry regulations and licenses, and training for
the staff of the new regulatory agencies; and
the establishment by March 31, 2002 of an Independent System Operator (ISO) to operate the Bifl
system as a single control area, according to UCTE rules, and within the UCTE Control Block
covering the territories of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, and Bosnia and
Herzegovina; in the event that the system of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia remains
disconnected from the UCTE system, selected EPRS generating units could be isolated, if desired
by EPRS, from the rest of the system in order to sell power to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
network. The Joint Power Coordinating Center (ZEKC) would be developed in order to become
the ISO for the BiH system, and the three Elektroprivredas would provide to the Association, by
December 31, 2001, a plan and schedule covering the additional resources to be provided to ZEKC
to enable it to function as the ISO and would implement this plan according to the said schedule.
3. Benefits and target population:
The domestic benefits from rehabilitation of transmission lines and substations would comprise:
(i)   increased transmission capacity;
(ii)   improved access to market of power supply from the relatively low-cost Visegrad, Trebinje.
Dubrovnik and Gacko power plants;
(iii)  recommencement of operation of Capljina as a pumped storage plant which would provide power
to meet peak loads;
(iv)   fewer outages and other supply quality irnprovements;
- 10 -



(v)    avoided increases in power transmission losses; and
(vi)   revenue from transmitting power to foreign markets.
The potential international benefits of restoration of the 400 kV Mostar 4 substation and the BiH 400 kV
transmission system are very large and include the following:
(i)    reconnecting the entire BiH  system  to the UCTE transmission system  with the associated
opportunities for sale and purchase of power within the UCTE network;
(ii)    providing Croatia access to thermal power generation in BiH;
(iii)   permitting wheeling of power for Croatia through BiH between the south-west and north-east
sectors of Croatia;
(iv)    providing security for the loads in north-east Croatia;
(v)    facilitating supply of power to Serbia and Kosovo during their network reconstruction;
(vi)   facilitating connection of other countries of south-eastem Europe to the UCTE network;
(vii)  facilitating implementation of the proposed 400 kV ring network around the Mediterranean; and
(viii)  comprising a part of the infrastructure required for realization of the main political and economic
targets of the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe.
Several of these international benefits will require the restoration of the 400 kV Emestinovo substation in
Croatia.
The benefits from the distribution investments would consist of:
(i)    increased distribution system capacity;
(ii)   improved access to electricity for larger numbers of consumers;
(iii)   fewer outages; and
(iv)   reduced technical distribution losses.
The benefits from the hydropower station investments would consist of:
(i)    reduced risk of unscheduled hydropower plant outages;
(ii)   increased assurance that Jablanica, Rama and Trebinje can contribute to secondary regulation,
which is needed to meet UCTE requirements; and
(iii)   improved safety at dams.
The benefits from the environmental investments at thermal power stations would consist of:
(i)    reduced particulate emissions at Tuzla and Kakanj;
(ii)   reduced risk of polluted water discharges, contamination of ground water, and fugitive dust
emissions related to ash disposal at Gacko and Ugljevik; and
(iii)   avoidance of thermal pollution from heated water discharges at Kakanj, thereby improving the
ecological balance.
The benefits from the SCADA system and associated communications facilities would consist of:
(i)    helping to enable BiH to rejoin the UCTE as a separate, single control area;
(ii)   fuel savings due to improved generation scheduling;
(iii)   reduced outages;
(iv)   reduced O&M costs at substations; and
- 11 -



(v)   revenue from the sale of surplus communications system capacity.
Institutional benefits would include:
(i)   improved cost recovery by the power companies;
(ii)   improved financial management;
(iii)  improved procurement capacity;
(iv)   substantial progress towards operation of the BiH high voltage power network on an integrated
basis and conversion of ZEKC to an Independent System Operator (ISO);
(v)   formulation and implementation of a power sector restructuring and privatization policy; and
(vi)   establishment of a legislative and regulatory framework that would facilitate the introduction of
competition and privatization.
The target population would be household and non-household consumers of electricity throughout BiH,
particularly returning refugees and those in small towns and rural areas who did not benefit from the
previous stages of the rehabilitation of the power system. Many of these potential beneficiaries are living
in poverty, and availability of electricity will significantly improve the quality of their lives.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Financing Plan
Of a total project cost of US$ 231.1 million, IDA would provide a Credit in the amount of US$ 35 million.
An additional US$ 21 million would be provided by the three Elektroprivredas out of their own
internally-generated funds. The remaining financing required (US$ 175.1 million) would be provided by
co-financiers through parallel financing arrangements, with each donor responsible for separate
components. As a result, possible delays in implementation of one donor's component would generally
cause little or no delay in implementation of other donors' components. At the time of appraisal,
reasonably firm commitments had been made for about US$ 161.5 million by: the European Investment
Bank (EIB), the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the European Commission,
and the Governments of Germany, Norway, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.
The EIB has indicated its willingness to cover most or all of the financing gap of US$ 13.6 million. Italy
has also expressed interest in co-financing the project. The financing plan is given hereunder.
- 12 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Cost and Financing Plan
US$ Millions                                          EPBIH
Total Financing                                                             EPHZHB
Cost  Gap     IDA   EIB  EBRD  SECO  USAID NORAD  Spain  DFID   EC   KfW   EPRS
Component
Transmission
TransMission Lines        29.7          24.5                                                             5.2
Substations               61.4                53.6                                                       7.8
Subtotal                 91.1           24.5  53.6                                                        1 3
SCADA                     44.2                       44.2                                                  0
Hydropower Stations
HPP Jablanica            15.5                               14                                           1.5
HPP Rama                   3.5           2.9                                                             0.6
HPP Trebinje              3.6                                                                     2.9    0.7
Subtotal                 22.6            2.9                1 4    0      0     0      0     0   2.9    2.8
Thermal Power Stations
TPP Kakanj and TPP Tuzla   9.1      8                                                                     1.1
TPP Gacko and TPP Ugljevik  7.8    5.6                                                                   2.2
Subtotal                  16.9   13.6                                                                     3.3
Distribution              42.9                                   16.8   6.2   18                         1.9
Technical Assistance      13.4           7.6                        3                  1   1.8             0
Total                    231.1    13.6   35  53.6  44.2   14  19.8   6.2   18          t   1.8   2.9    21
Note: Donors have indicated interest in financing most or all of the remaining investments.
Lending Arrangements
The IDA Credit would be lent to Bosnia and Herzegovina for 35 years with a 10 year grace period and at
the standard IDA service charge. The funds would be onlent to the Federation and RS Governments on the
same terms. The Federation Government would provide the funds to EPBiH and EPHZHB for 20 years
with a 5 year grace period and at an interest rate of Libor plus 0.75%. The RS Government would provide
the funds to EPRS for 20 years with a 5 year grace period and at an interest rate of Libor plus 0.75%.
Bosnia and Herzegovina would enter into Subsidiary Credit Agreements with the Federation
Govemment/EPBiH,  the  Federation  GovernmentJEPHZHB,  and  the  Govemment  of  Republika
Srpska/EPRS as a condition for effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
Implementation
The proposed project would be expected to be completed within the three-year period October 1, 2001
through September 30, 2004. Management of all aspects of project implementation, except those to be
carried out by the Federation and RS Governments (i.e., sector reform), would be carried out by EPBiH,
EPHZHB and EPRS, who would be responsible for execution of their respective parts. The PIUs
responsible for implementation of the Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project (Power 2) would
continue for the proposed project. The Financial Management Review and Procurement Capacity
Assessment have identified the need for strengthening each of the Elektroprivreda PIUs with qualified
financial and procurement staff (see sections on Financial Management and Disbursement and
Procurement).  In addition, an intemational consultant would work with the PIUs during project
implementation. The consultant would assist with procurement of the transmission line equipment and
Rama hydropower station works to be financed by IDA, monitor delivery and installation, and provide
in-house training to the Elektroprivredas' procurement staff.
- 13 -



Procurement
A detailed procurement plan, along with project procurement elements, their estimated costs, bidding
methods, packaging and estimated schedules has been developed (Annex 6).
Financial Management and Disbursement
Each Elektroprivreda, through its PIU, would be responsible for its own financial management of the
project (see Annex 11 for the detailed financial management arrangements). In accordance with the Loan
Accounting Change Initiative (LACI) requirement, a Bank accredited financial management specialist
reviewed the proposed financial management systems between December 1999 and March 2001 to:
(i)    assess the project's capacity and readiness for implementation of LACI;
(ii)   review whether the necessary elements are present for a sound project financial management
system such as adequate internal controls, project accounting, project staffing and audit
arrangements; and
(iii)   prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial management system to achieve
PMR-based disbursements in accordance with LACI.
The review found that the PlUs' financial management systems satisfy the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements. However, the PlUs do not have in place an adequate project financial
management system that would allow for the preparation of the accurate and timely Project Management
Reports (PMRs) required by IDA. A report on the review of the Financial Management System is in the
PIP
The PIUs comply with the audit covenants under Power 2 and there were no significant accounting issues
reported by the auditors in the most recent audit, for the year ended 31 December 1999. However the 1999
enterprise audits for the three Elektroprivredas were all qualified by the independent auditors. For EPBiH
and EPHZHB, the auditors were unable to satisfy themselves as to the appropriate valuation of property,
plant and equipment in accordance with International Accounting Standards. In the case of EPRS, the
auditors were unable to confirm that the financial statements fairly represented the financial position of
EPRS as of December 31, 1999. They were unable to offer an opinion on several other important matters,
including the value of fixed assets, receivables, internal balances, capital and reserves, and transactions in
respect of which they were unable to confirm fair value. The auditors also noted numerous internal and
accounting control weaknesses. The three Elektroprivredas are currently implementing detailed action
plans (acceptable to IDA) to address these issues. Under the project, the Elektroprivredas have agreed to
have their assets revalued by independent professional evaluators, by June 30, 2002.
An agreed action plan (see Annex 11) has been accepted by the three Elektroprivredas, with the following
provisions:
(i)    Each Elektroprivreda would appoint, by effectiveness, an independent auditing firm, acceptable to
the Association, to perform the audits of the company and project financial statements for 2001. In
addition, a management letter on internal controls from the auditors would be provided four months
after project effectiveness.
(ii)    Each Elektroprivreda would finalize its 2002 budget by December 31, 2001, including recording
and allocation of total budget in the accounting system - by month, and by year, by activities, by
categories, by sources and by account codes, and by effective date.
- 14 -



(iii)   Each Elektroprivreda would provide PMRs satisfactory to the Association by August 15, 2002.
(iv)   Each Elektroprivreda would prepare a reliable budget and budget revisions when compared against
the actuals, by August 15, 2002.
(v)    The PIUs would achieve the capability of preparing satisfactory supervision reports, satisfactory
withdrawal applications, receiving satisfactory audits, especially of internal controls, by August
15, 2002.
(vi)   The financial management arrangements would be reviewed by an IDA financial management
specialist by August 31, 2002 to assess their readiness for PMR based disbursements.
Each Elektroprivreda's financial statements (income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement)
would be prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards, while the Project Financial
Statements would be prepared in accordance with the format provided by IDA. Both the company and
project financial statements would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and the audit
reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit of the Project
Financial Statements would also include a separate opinion on the operation of the Special Accounts
(disbursements made against PMRs).  PricewaterhouseCoopers Canada audited the 1998 financial
statements of each Elektroprivreda and PricewaterhouseCoopers Macedonia audited the 1999 financial
statements for each Elektroprivreda.   The three Elektroprivredas have signed contracts with
PricewaterhouseCoopers Macedonia for the 2000 audits.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be made initially on the basis of the traditional system with
reimbursements against direct payments, and there would be no Special Accounts initially. Once a
satisfactory financial management system has been installed and is operating satisfactorily, the method for
disbursement may be changed to the new procedure whereby proceeds from the Credit would be disbursed
against quarterly PMRs. The target date for such a conversion would be one year from effectiveness and a
Special Account would be established in the name of each Elektroprivreda. In view of weaknesses of the
commercial banks within BiH, the Special Accounts would be established in banks outside BiH. Proceeds
of the IDA Credit would be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6.
Each PIU would prepare a quarterly PMR and furnish it to the Bank within 45 days of the end of the
quarter. The first such PMR would be provided by August 15, 2002 for the quarter ending June 30, 2002.
The reports would be used to track project progress, procurement and disbursement and would comprise:
(i)   financial reports including project sources and uses of funds, uses of funds by project activity,
project balance sheet, project cash withdrawals, Special Account statement and project cash
forecast;
(ii)   project progress reports including monitoring of contracts and output by project activity; and
(iii)   procurement management reports including process monitoring of goods, works and consultants'
services and contract expenditures for goods and consultant services. The PMRs would employ the
formats set out in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), which follow examples given in the
Bank's LACI Implementation Handbook.
The draft accounting and financial flows for the project are described in Annex 11. The PIUs would
generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on all activities of the
project. The financial flows for all activities in Power 3 will involve direct payment from the credit
accounts to suppliers and there will be no special account initially.
- 15-



The risks related to the financial management aspects of the project include:
(i)    possible delays in preparation of PMRs;
(ii)   poor handling of financial management due to a poor accounting environment and few qualified
accountants in BiH;
(iii)   possible continued lack of control of operating costs and large operating losses; and
(iv)   possible misuse of the IDA Credit.
These risks are considered manageable due to the, various risk-mitigation measures identified in Annex 11.
Supervision and Monitoring
The assessments carried out by IDA show that the Elektroprivredas are capable of implementing the
proposed project. As this is a complex project with a major reform component, three responsible
implementing agencies and several co-financiers, a significant supervision effort would be required.
IDA would carry out a mid-term review of the project by June 30, 2003. In addition to the topics covered
under the PMRs, the mid-term review would include a review of the economic viability of the project
components, based on actual costs and benefits achieved to-date, and of the overall institutional and
financial performance of the Elektroprivredas This review could identify additional measures to be taken to
ensure the efficient completion of the project.
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared by the Association with inputs from the
Elektroprivredas not later than six months after project closing. The ICR would evaluate how well the
objectives of the project have been met, the overall performance of the project, the performance of the
Elektroprivredas and lessons learned.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following sets of project alternatives were considered:
(i)    project versus no project;
(ii)   choices between project components; and
(iii)   choices of sub-components within each project component.
Project versus no project. The main justification of the investments that would be financed under the
project is that there is still much economically attractive post-war reconstruction to be carried out. The
benefits of the project versus no project are listed in Section C.3 and evaluated in the economic rate of
return analysis. An economic rate of return of 61% was estimated for the project as a whole. An equally
important justification of the project is the support which can be given under it for power sector
coordination, institutional strengthening, restructuring and reform. A third important justification is the
project's regional contribution in the form of restoring the high-voltage interconnections with other
countries of former Yugoslavia. This contribution would be a big step towards re-integration of the power
networks of the Balkan countries with the West European grid.
A related question is what would happen in the absence of intemnational assistance for the project. Its
implementation would then depend on the ability of the Elektroprivredas to finance the investments from net
intemal cash generation and commercial borrowings.  Although it has been projected that the
Elektroprivredas' capacity to finance investments will improve in future years, internally-generated funds
- 16 -



remain insufficient to cover the financing needs of the proposed project and there are no conmmercial lenders
available within BiH to provide financing of the magnitude required or on terms that would be reasonable.
Another option would be for private companies to acquire equity in the power sector companies and
provide financing for the project investments. This option is not considered to be realistic at the present
time because of substantial country risk, the lack of a suitable regulatory framework, and the maintenance
of prices below cost covering levels. Under the project actions would be taken to establish the necessary
legal and regulatory framework suitable for a largely privatized power sector, raise prices towards
cost-covering levels and reduce the large distortion between household and other prices. However, these
actions will take several years to complete.
Choices between project components. Since the total reconstruction requirements identified by the
Elektroprivredas and the feasibility studies considerably exceeded available financing, some trade-offs had
to be made between project components. With the full agreement of the Elektroprivredas and the Entity
Govermments it was decided to give first priority under Power 3 to rehabilitation of the high-voltage
network and system control in order to facilitate integrated operation of the BiH power system and enable
BiH to rejoin the UCTE, both of which would greatly enhance the security of the power system and
improve other aspects of quality of supply. Financing constraints meant excluding investments in 110 kV
transmission and having relatively small distribution and generation components.
It was decided to concentrate on reconstruction of existing facilities rather than construction of new ones
since the forecast demand over the next several years can be met from existing facilities, and available
analyses have confirmed that the reconstruction options are less costly than completely new facilities.
Choices of sub-components.  The choice of sub-components within the categories of transmission lines
and substations was made on the basis of sets of criteria set out in the AGRA Monenco-Teshmont
feasibility study.  The first step was to identify a list of essential components based on technical
considerations for restoration of the high-voltage grid and interconnection with UCTE. These include:
(i)    reconstruction of all sections of 400 kV and 220 kV transmission line damaged during the war;
(ii)   reconstruction of the 400 kV substation at Mostar 4;
(iii)   reconstruction of the I 10 kV transmission line Mostar 2 - Nevesinje; and
(iv)    construction of a Mostar switchgear bay for the 110 kV line to Nevesinje.
The choice to reconstruct the 400 kV and 220/110 kV substations was based on an evaluation scheme
using the following criteria: public safety, Elektroprivreda personnel safety, transmission security risk,
obsolete equipment, war neglect and lack of supplier support, UCTE performance, Balkans and
Mediterranean system interconnections, modernization of protection schemes, modernization for SCADA
control, and modernization of control systems in substations.
The AGRA Monenco-Teshmont study prioritized the distribution investments proposed by the
Elektroprivredas using the following criteria;
(i)    the supply of power to locations that are currently without power where people are currently
residing;
(ii)   the supply of power to locations where work is currently on-going to provide for the return of
refugees;
(iii)   the repair of facilities where failure could affect the safety of personnel nearby;
(iv)   the repair of facilities where failure could cause a widespread outage for a significant time (such as
power transformers or switchgears);
- 17-



(v)    the repair of facilities which have a high rate of failure and affect a large number of people for lon g
periods of time (such as a radial 35 kV line where access is poor);
(vi)   the supply of power to locations where vvork is planned to provide for the return of refugees;
(vii) the improvement of facilities to reduce technical power distribution losses; and
(viii) the repair of facilities which result in poor power quality, voltage and frequency of outages.
Hydropower investments have been confined to the plants at Jablanica, Rama and Trebinje as much
rehabilitation has already been carried out at the other hydropower plants and the needs at these three
plants were considered to be greater. Jablanica, Rama and Trebinje have added importance for purposes of
joining UCTE since they provide secondary frequency regulation. The rehabilitation works were selected
using the following priorities. Priority 1 was given to safety of the plant and operating personnel, and
ability to maintain the generator units in operation. Priority 2 was given to the ability to ensure reliable
operation at the rated output of the units. Priority 3 was given to increasing the generation output
capability of the units through increasing the efficiency of the turbines and rewinding of the generator stator
and possibly rotor.
The investments chosen for the four thermal power stations were confined to pollution control since further
capacity rehabilitation was deemed to be of lower priority given the current surplus generating capacity in
BiH. The choice of investments was based on the priorities set out in the environmental management plans
prepared by EPBiH and EPRS for Power I and lPower 2.
Alternative options within the SCADA systemn and associated communications component are being
evaluated in the SCADA system feasibility study.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision     2
Sector lssue04                      Pr0Ject           j       (PS) Rtins
I _ _ __  _ __ _  __ _ __  _ __  _  _  i__________  ___:::::___     :( aavk4nancei! pro jets  only) 
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Repair damages for specific sectors    Emergency Recovery Project       S              S
Emergency reconstruction of power    Emergency Electric Power           S              S
facilities; cost recovery           Reconstruction Project
Reconstruction in Republika Srpska    Reconstruction Assistance         S              S
Project
Continued reconstruction; cost      Second Electric Power               S              S
recovery; improved power sector     Reconstruction Project
coordination; start of sector reform
Other development agencies
Many donors, including EBRD, EU,              N/A
Canada, Japan (JICA + OECF = now
JBIC); Norway, Spain, Switzerland, the
UK, and US (USAID and USTDA) are
cofinancing the above projects and
parallel power sector investments.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-18 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project would build on the successful performance of Power I and Power 2. One point already
realized and taken into account is that, since the expected international financing would cover only part of
the large remaining reconstruction needs, it is essential to obtain the agreement of all the project
implementing agencies on the investments to be included under the project and the allocation of the project
between the three Elektroprivredas. An important contribution of the main feasibility study was to provide
the basis for this agreement, which was reached during the preappraisal mission. A second lesson is the
importance of ensuring the timely availability of cofinancing. Reasonably firm financing commitments had
been secured to cover all costs except US$ 13.6 million. Prospects are good for securing the remaining
financing. A third lesson is the importance of securing financing early for technical assistance in order to
avoid delays in project components that depend on prior completion of that technical assistance. IDA
would finance the critical procurement technical assistance. A fourth lesson is the importance of having
strong, well-staffed PIUs. The PIUs being used for Power 2 would be expected to continue under Power 3
and technical assistance would be provided where necessary.  Special emphasis is being given to
establishing sound project procurement and financial management systems within the PIUs. A fifth lesson
is that progress towards power sector coordination and reform requires patience and an active role by the
Bank because of the need to gain the agreement of the implementing agencies and the Entity Governments
under the existing political climate. The project would benefit from activities under previous projects in an
additional way. The environmental components included under the project were based partly on the
Environmental Management Plans prepared under Power 1 and Power 2. A lesson leamed from experience
in other countries in the Europe and Central Asia region is the desirability of minimizing barter trade
arrangements. The project would contribute to this goal by emphasizing measures to strengthen the
financial viability of the Elektroprivredas and encouraging actions towards corporatization and operation
on a commercial basis. In this respect, agreement was reached to increase the proportion of bills to be paid
in cash for coal purchases by EPBiH.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The following are indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
(i)   the commitment shown by the Elektroprivredas in the implementation of the Power 2 Project;
(ii)   the Elektroprivredas and the Governments have been consistently prompt in providing requested
information to the Bank and its consultants and have made considerable efforts to meet Bank staff
under difficult conditions; and
(iii)   working groups involving the State, Federal and RS Governments and the three Elektroprivredas
were established and worked under tight time schedules to prepare power sector reform policies
and new electricity laws. The power sector reform policies have been adopted by the Federal and
RS Governments, and draft electricity laws have been submitted to the Federal and RS
Parliaments.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of Bank support in this project has been the following:
(i)    The Bank was mandated to take the lead role among donors in establishing overall sector
rehabilitation and reconstruction investment priorities from the point of view of the whole country.
The effectiveness of this arrangement has been confirmed by its leadership in the two largest
post-war electric power projects, Power I and Power 2.
- 19 -



(ii)    Bank involvement in the proposed project has served as a catalyst for securing other donor
financing.
(iii)   Because of its broad sector involvement, the Bank is able to take the lead role among donors in
encouraging institutional reform and strengthening as well as general sector restructuring and
reform.
(iv)    The Bank is contributing to improved coordination between the Elektroprivredas and the Energy
Ministries of the two Entities by designing the project to include coordinated investments by all
three Elektropnrvredas and by strongly encouraging improved power system coordination.
(v)    Procurement in accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines would help to minimize costs
of equipment purchase and installation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$1166 million; ERR = 61 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out for 85% of the total project investments. The excluded investments,
for which the benefits could not be measured accurately, comprise the environmental investments at thermal
power stations, the investments to improve safety at hydropower stations, and the technical assistance.
Separate benefits were identified and measured for the different project components.
For transmission, the measured benefits include:
(i)    avoidance of increases in transmission losses;
(ii)   reductions in unserved energy caused by power outages in the transmission system;
(iii)  increased electricity sales from the Gacko and Visegrad power stations made possible by the
removal of transmission constraints;
(iv)   resumption of pumped storage at the Capljina hydropower station made possible by an increase in
fault levels due to transmission system rehabilitation;
(v)    revenue from transmission within BiH of power intended for foreign markets; and
(vi)  the benefit (measured by willingness to pay determined on the basis of the cost of alternative
energy) of transmission of additional electricity to markets within BiH.
For distribution the measured benefits include:
(i)    reductions in unserved energy caused by power outages in the distribution system; and
(ii)   increased sales made possible by distribution system restoration (measured by willingness to pay
determined on the basis of the cost of altemative energy).
For the SCADA system the measured benefits include:
(i)    salary savings due to staff reductions at hydropower plants, substations and in record keeping
units;
(ii)   reductions in unserved energy attributable to improved dispatching; and
(iii)   revenue from sale of spare communications capacity. For hydropower investments, the measured
benefits consist of improved availability of generating capacity at the Jablanica and Trebinje
hydropower stations.
- 20 -



The costs consist of 85% of the project investments, plus operating and maintenance expenditures. Import
duties and other indirect taxes have been excluded. A shadow exchange rate 7.5% higher in local currency
than the actual rate was used, on the assumption that the current rate is distorted by import duties
averaging about 7.5% of import prices. A shadow wage rate was not used because a satisfactory estimate
was not available, and its use would increase an already higher than adequate rate of return. The estimates
were made in constant prices as of January 1, 2001.
Every project component was found to have a positive net present value when discounted at the opportunity
cost of capital, taken to be 12%.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 299 million; FRR = 32 % (see Annex 4)
A project financial analysis was carried out for the same 85% of the project investments. The benefits used
for the economic analysis were also used for the financial analysis. However, two types of benefits were
measured differently. Reductions in unserved energy were measured in the financial analysis using the
actual average year 2000 retail tariff rate of US$ 0.056/ kWh whereas a higher estimate of US$ 0.25/kWh
was used in the economic analysis based on estimates in other countries of willingness to pay to protect
against unplanned outages. Increased electricity sales were measured in the financial analysis using the
actual tariff rate whereas a willingness to pay estimate of US$ 0.14/kWh was used in the economic
analysis. These two adjustments largely explain why the financial rate of return is lower than the economic
rate of return for the project. The financial analysis is in nominal prices. Local taxes of 10% on the local
cost project expenditures are included in the costs. Shadow prices were not used.
Every project component was found to have a positive net present value when discounted at the opportunity
cost of capital of 12% plus average local inflation of 3%. The project net present values are positive for all
three Elektroprivredas. They are US$ 118 million for EPBiH, US$ 50 million for EPHZHB and US$ 130
million for EPRS. The financial internal rates of return for EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS are 32%, 28%
and 35% respectively.
Assessment of the Financial Performance of Elektroprivredas
EPBiH
Past Financial Performance
Since the war ended, EPBiH's financial performance has improved significantly. Domestic sales have
increased from 1,700 GWh in 1996 to 2,950 GWh in 2000. Gradual tariff increases have resulted in
improved revenues and the overall collection rate as a percentage of billings has increased from 60% in
1996 to 97% in 2000. Distribution losses have been reduced from 25% in 1996 to about 11% in 2000.
Based on the audited 1999 financial statements, EPBiH incurred a net loss of KM 60.9 million (US$ 33.5
million). Operating income before depreciation, interest and extraordinary items was KM 90.7 million,
resulting in a working ratio (cash operating expenses as a percentage of revenues) of 78% and an operating
ratio (cash operating expenses and depreciation as a percentage of revenues) of 112%, illustrating that
depreciation expenses remain relatively high. 42% of EPBiH's cash operating expenses were for coal for
thermal power production. As a result of a strong overall collection performance, EPBiH generated
positive cash flow.
- 21 -



Based on unaudited financial statements, FPI3iH improved its financial perfonnance in 2000. Overall
domestic demand increased by 3.1%. The average domestic distribution tariff in 2000 was 11.90 Pf/kWh
and the export tariff was 5.0 Pf/kWh. The result was a net loss of KM 32.2 million, a 47% reduction from
1999 losses. The working ratio was 73%/o and the operating ratio was I 12%. EPBiH continued to generate
positive cash flow in 2000.
Future Financial Performance
Continued improvement in EPBiH's financial perfonrance relies on continued growth in the demand for
electricity by the industrial'commercial and residential consumers, continued strong collection performance
and the ability to keep distribution losses under control.  As stated above, a major expense is the
depreciation charge, which accounted for nearly 38%  of the revenues generated in 2000. Since fixed assets
have not been revalued according to international accounting standards, it may not be appropriate to
impose tariff increase conditions based on full cost-recovery until a proper revaluation of the company's
assets has been undertaken and an associated depreciation policy established. Given the importance of
appropriately valued assets and associated depreciation charges to accurately assess the financial
performance of EPBiH and the requirements for tariff increases that cover cost, EPBiH agreed to have its
fixed assets revalued and its depreciation policies reviewed by qualified independent organizations,
satisfactory to the Association, by June 30, 2002.
Projections of the financial performance of EPBiH over the period January 1, 2001 through December 31,
2007 are presented in Annex 5 and elaborated in the Project Implementation Plan. The projections have
been prepared to assess EPBiH's capacity to meet debt servicing requirements and the required counterpart
funding of the project while, at the same time., remaining financially viable. The projections assume that:
(i)    Domestic demand for electricity continues to increase, albeit at a slower pace after year 2001.
(ii)    Distribution losses do not exceed 1 1%.
(iii)    Tariffs increase at the rate of domestic intlation.
(iv)    The costs for salaries and wages are kept constant in real terms after the year 2001 reflecting
improvements in overall productivity and a reduction in staffing.
(v)    Pre-war debt is allocated and servicing of this debt takes place.
(vi)    The overall collection rate remains at the current level of close to 100%.
(vii)   External financing would finance 85%/0 of the total project costs of the proposed project and the
loan funds would be made to EPBill with a 20-year matLrity, a 5-year grace period on repayment
of principal, and an interest rate of Libor plus 0.75%. The remaining 15% of project costs would
be the responsibility of EPBiH.
(viii)   Other investments, based on EPBii-l's proposed investment plan, have been assumed to be financed
by EPBiH's internally-generated funds and borrowings at similar termns as those proposed for the
project.
Based on the above key assumptions, the financial projections show that EPBiH would be able to maintain
a satisfactory self-financing ratio, including contributing the required USS 7.7 million out of its own funds
to the cost of the project, a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5, and overall positive cash flow.
EPBiH agreed to maintain a self-financing ratio of at least 40% and a debt service coverage ratio of at least
1.5 during the project implementation period.
- 22 -



EPHZHB
Past Financial Performance
Demand for electricity in the region served by EPIIZHB fell sharply during the war. In 1996, distribution
demand was 605 GWh whereas the two large industrial consumers' production had come to a halt and thus
had no demand for electricity. In addition, revenue collection as a percentage of annual billings reached
only 65% in 1996. At the end of 2000, demand had increased to 1,630 GWh and the overall collection rate
had improved to about 89%.
According to the audited 1999 financial statements, EPHZIIB incurred a net loss of KM 3.2 million.
Operating income before depreciation, interest and extraordinary items was KM 36 million, resulting in a
working ratio (cash operating expenses as a percentage of revenues) of 72%. A key reason for the relatively
good working ratio is EPHZHB's availability of hydropower. EPHZHB relies entirely on hydropower for
its own production and resorts to imports to mneet demand in excess of its own capacity. EPHZHB cash
flow was negative in 1999 due to an overall low collection rate of about 81% and distribution losses of
24%, due to continued theft of electricity. The average tariff was Pf 10.38/kWh and Pf 4.87/kWh for
distribution and bulk consumers, respectively.
Based on unaudited financial information, perfonnance improved in 2000 and EPHZHB generated a
positive cash flow. The improved performance is primarily due to a 11% increase in electricity sales (from
KM126 million to KM140 million) and a lower increase in operating costs (8%). In addition, the overall
collection rate as a percentage of 2000 billings improved to about 89%/o. Although the annual depreciation
charge is relatively high, EPHZHB managed to keep the operating ratio (cash operating and depreciation
expenses as a percentage of revenues) to about 100%. Distribution losses remained high at about 25%.
Future Financial Performance
The future financial performance of EPHZHB is dependent on the continued availability of adequate
hydropower which allows the company to keep its operating expenses down. In addition, continued growth
in sales as a result of electrification of new areas, reductions in distribution losses and an overall
improvement in revenue collection will be required to maintain a profit on operations and positive cash
flow. As with EPBiH, annual charges for depreciation are high. Given the importance of appropriately
valued assets and associated depreciation charges to accurately assess the financial performance of
EPHZHB and the requirements for tariff increases that cover cost, EPHZHB agreed to have its fixed
assets revalued and its depreciation policies reviewed by qualified independent organizations, satisfactory
to the Association, by June 30, 2002.
Projections of the financial performance of EPHZHB over the period January 1, 2001 through December
31, 2007 are presented in Annex 5 and elaborated in the Project Implementation Plan. The projections
have been prepared to assess EPHZHB's capacity to meet debt servicing requirements and the required
counterpart funding of the project while, at the same time, remaining financially viable. The projections
assume that:
(i)    Distribution demand for electricity continues to increase, al a consistent pace from 2001 to 2007.
(ii)    Hydropower continues to be available to EPIIZIIB at the 1999 level.
(iii)   Distribution losses are reduced to 12% by 2004 and remain at that level thereafter.
(iv)   Tariffs increase at the rate of domestic inflation.
(v)    The costs for salaries and wages are kept constant in real tenns reflecting improvements in overall
- 23 -



productivity and a reduction in staffing.
(vi)   Pre-war debt is allocated and debt-servicing of this debt takes place.
(vii)   The overall collection rate improves to 99% by 2002 and remains at that level thereafter.
(viii)  Extemal financing would finance 83% of the total project costs of the proposed project and the
loan funds would be made to EPHZHB with a 20-year maturity, a 5-year grace period on
repayment of principal, and an interest rate of Libor plus 0.75%. The remaining 17% of project
costs would be the responsibility of EPHZHB.
(ix)   Other investments, based on EPHZHB's proposed investment plan, would be financed by
EPHZHB's intemally-generated funds and borrowings at similar terms as those proposed for the
project.
Based on the above key assumptions, the financial projections show that EPHZHB would be able to
maintain a satisfactory self-financing ratio, including contributing the required US$ 5.1 million out of its
own funds to the cost of the project, a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5, and overall positive cash
flow. EPHZHB agreed to maintain a self-financing ratio of at least 40% and a debt service coverage ratio
of at least 1.5 during the project implementation period.
EPRS
Past Financial Performance
The post-war period has been difficult for EPRS as demand for electricity has been slow to resume,
revenue collection has only improved slowly and the Dinar exchange rate suffered a significant
deterioration between 1997 and 1998. Sales from distribution have increased from 1,851 GWh in 1996 to
2,183 GWh in 2000, but are still below the pre-war levels of 2,714 GWh. Revenue collection as a
percentage of annual billings was only 52% in 1996 and improved to about 87% in 2000.
According to the audited 1999 financial statements, EPRS incurred a net loss of KM 191 million largely
due to the higher depreciation charge for the year. Operating income before depreciation, interest and
extraordinary items was KM 95 million, resulting in a working ratio (cash operating expenses as a
percentage of revenues) of 71%. One reason for the poor working ratio was high distribution losses. In
1999, the average domestic tariff was Pf 10.14/kWh and distribution losses exceeded 26%. Revenue
collection as a percentage of yearly billings was 76%.
Based on unaudited financial information, 2000 continued to be difficult for EPRS. Despite an increase in
the average domestic tariff to Pf 11.90/kWh, revenue only increased by 4% due to the reduction in
electricity sold (including exports) from 4,080 GWh to 3,430 GWh. However, by limiting the increase in
overall operating expenses to under 8%, it is estimated that the net loss was reduced to KM 170 million.
The working ratio remained constant at 71% in 2000, and the operating ratio (cash operating and
depreciation expenses as a percentage of revenues) improved slightly from 133% in 1999 to 131% in 2000.
Distribution losses remained high at about 27%.
Future Financial Performance
The future financial performance of EPRS is dependent on, inter alia, continued growth in sales as a result
of electrification of new areas, increased use by industrial and commercial users and return of refugees,
reductions in distribution losses, and improvements in revenue collection. In addition, the annual charge for
depreciation of EPRS's assets will have a significant impact on the future financial performance. Given the
importance of appropriately valued assets and associated depreciation charges to accurately assess the
- 24 -



financial performance of EPRS and the requirements for tariff increases that cover cost, EPRS agreed to
have its fixed assets revalued and its depreciation policies reviewed by qualified independent organizations,
satisfactory to the Association, by June 30, 2002.
Projections of the financial performance of EPRS over the period January 1, 2001 through December 31,
2007 are presented in Annex 5 and elaborated in the Project Implementation Plan. The projections have
been prepared to assess EPRS's capacity to meet debt servicing requirements and the required counterpart
funding of the project while, at the same time, remaining financially viable. The projections assume that:
(i)    Distribution demand for electricity continues to increase and excess capacity is exported.
(ii)    Distribution losses are reduced to 12% by 2004 and remain at that level thereafter.
(iii)   Tariffs increase at the rate of domestic inflation.
(iv)   The salaries and wages are kept constant in real terms after 2001 reflecting improvements in
overall productivity and a reduction in staffing.
(v)    The Govemment of the Republic of Srpska has taken over responsibility for all pre-war debt,
whereby the amount has been transferred to state capital. Therefore EPRS does not have any
pre-war debt obligations.
(vi)   The overall collection rate improves gradually to 96% in 2004, and remains at that level thereafter.
(vii)   External financing would finance 82% of the total project costs of the proposed project and the
loan funds would be made to EPRS with a 20-year maturity, a 5-year grace period on repayment of
principal, and an interest rate of Libor plus 0.75%. The remaining 18% of project costs would be
the responsibility of EPRS.
(viii)  Other investments, based on EPRS's proposed investment plan, would be financed by EPRS's
internally-generated funds and borrowings at similar terms as those proposed for the project.
Based on the above key assumptions, the financial projections show that EPRS would be able to maintain a
satisfactory self-financing ratio, including contributing the required US$ 8.2 million out of its own funds to
the cost of the project, a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5, and overall positive cash flow. EPRS
agreed to maintain a self-financing ratio of at least 40% and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5
during the project implementation period.
Fiscal Impact:
The Federal and RS Governments would enjoy a financial benefit since the onlending terms (20 year
maturity with five years of grace at an interest rate of Libor plus 0.75%) of the IDA Credit are more
onerous to the Elektroprivredas than the terms these Governments enjoy (35 year maturity with 10 years of
grace, IDA service charge of 0.75%). The net present value of this benefit at a discount rate of 12% is
US$ 18.1 million. The Entity Governments would not be required to make any contributions to cover costs
related to the project since the main Implementing Agencies (the Elektroprivredas) are revenue eaming
enterprises who would be expected to cover all local investment costs as well as subsequent O&M costs,
and take full responsibility for debt service. There would be no import duties on goods and services
imported for the project since projects to repair war damages are exempt from such duties. However, there
is a 10% local tax on local cost investments under the project. The total tax revenue to municipal
governments from this tax is estimated at US$ 4.3 million equivalent. The indirect fiscal impact of the
project would be positive to the extent that the project improves the financial performance of the companies
sufficiently to enable them to pay corporate taxes. Current forecasts indicate that only EPHZHB would be
subject to corporate tax and the amounts it would pay would be small. There would be a further positive
impact to the extent that the project contributes to overall economic expansion thereby allowing further
increases in tax revenue.
- 25 -



3. Technical:
A feasibility study has been prepared by AGRA Monenco-Teshmont for the transmission, distribution and
hydropower components, with financing from the Canadian Consultants Trust Fund. A separate feasibility
study is being prepared for the SCADA component, with financing by USTDA. The analyses of the
environmental investments at thermal power sta.tions are presented in the Environmental Management Plans
prepared by the Elektroprivredas.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agencies for the project would be the three Elektroprivredas that own and operate the power
system of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). In addition, ZEKC and the new regulatory agencies would
receive technical assistance and part of the SCADA investments under the project.
Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina (EPBiH) is a vertically integrated power utility, owned by the
Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBiH). As the successor to the pre-war.
Republic-wide Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine, EPBiH was established by a Decree-Law on the
Electricity Industry issued in September 1993 (Bulletin 1), and was registered by a Decision of the High
Court in Sarajevo dated July 21, 1993.
EPBiH is supervised by a Management Board, two-thirds of whose members are appointed by the
Government of FBiH, and the remaining third by the company. The Chairman of the Management Board is
the FBiH Assistant Minister of Energy, Mining, and Industry responsible for Electricity.
The Directorate of EPBiH in Sarajevo is divided between six departments: Generation, Transmission and
System Control, Distribution, Research and Development, Economic and Financial Affairs, and Human
Resources. The heads of these departments report to the General Manager, who in turn reports to the
Management Board. Including the Directorate, there are 13 business operating units within EPBiH: I
hydropower unit (managing three power plants on the Neretva River); 2 thermal power units (each
managing one of EPBiH's thermal power plants); 1 transmission unit; 7 distribution units; a Research and
Development Institute; and the Directorate.
Elektroprivreda of the Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia (EPHZHB) is a vertically integrated
power utility established under the FBiH Law on Enterprises (Official Gazette of FBiH No. 2/95). The
company's capital is divided between 35 municipalities in 6 Cantons which constitute the company's service
territory.
The senior management of EPHZHB is undertaken by the Company Assembly, a Supervisory Board, a
Management Board, and the Directorate.  The Company Assembly comprises representatives of the
municipalities that own shares in the capital of the company. The Company Assembly appoints and
dismisses the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has three members.
and acts as a secretariat to the Company Assembly. The Management Board has seven members, and is
responsible for appointing and dismissing the General Director of the company. Of the remaining four
members, one is appointed by EPHZHB, and thwe others from the municipalities that own the company.
- 26 -



The Directorate of EPHZHB in Mostar is divided into seven departments: Generation; Transmission;
Distribution; Research and Development; System Control and Operation; Finance; and Legal, Personnel,
and Administrative. The heads of these departments report to the General Manager, who in turn reports to
the Management Board. EPHZHB treats each of its non-operational departments as a separate cost center,
so that there are 44 business operating units within EPHZHB: 4 hydropower units (one for each of the
company's four hydropower plants); I transmission unit; 34 distribution units (managed by five
Distribution Sub-departments, one for each Canton in which EPHZHB has service territory); the Research
and Development department; the System Control and Operation department; the Finance department; the
Legal, Personnel, and Administrative department; and the Directorate.
Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska (EPRS) is a public enterprise established by the Republika Srpska
(RS) Law on State Enterprises (Official Gazette of the RS No. 3/95), and the RS law on the Electricity
Industry (No. 01-203/97, adopted on April 23 1997), and wholly owned by the RS Government.
EPRS is supervised by a Management Board, which is overseen by a Supervisory Board appointed by the
RS Government. The Management Board has seven members, of which three are internal appointments by
the Elektroprivreda, and four are appointed from outside the Elektroprivreda by the RS Government. The
Supervisory Board has five members, of which one is appointed by the Elektroprivreda, and four are
appointed from outside the Elektroprivreda by the RS Government.
The public enterprise EPRS consists of 11 legally independent operating companies and a Directorate in
Trebinje. Although not a legally constituted holding company, since ownership of the operating units is not
vested in the Directorate, EPRS acts as such in practice. Each of the 11 operating companies has its own
Management Board, responsible for that operating company, and accountable to the EPRS Management
Board.
The Directorate of EPRS in Trebinje is divided between four departments: Technical, Development,
Economic and Financial, and Organizational and Legal. Including the Directorate, there are 12 operating
companies within EPRS: 2 thermal power generation companies (one for each of the thermal power plants
in the RS, and each including the associated coal mines); 3 hydro power generation companies (one for
each of the hydropower plants in the RS); 5 distribution companies (one for each region of EPRS' service
territory); I transmission company; and the Directorate.
The technical and managerial capacity of the Elektroprivredas to implement the project has been
demonstrated and enhanced by their satisfactory preparation and implementation of Power 1 and Power 2.
The design of the major part of the project investments has been undertaken by the Elektroprivredas in
conjunction with intemational consultants (for EPHZHB and EPRS), and internationally accepted technical
criteria and standards have been applied.
However, the organization of all three Elektroprivredas is in both operational and financial terms complex
and inefficient.  Hence, technical assistance would be provided under the project to improve the
Elektroprivredas' financial and management inforrnation systems, and to implement restructuring
(primarily vertical disintegration) in accordance with the 1996 EU Electricity Directive. Experience from
similar projects within the Europe and Central Asia Region has demonstrated that the second of these
initiatives would not affect the EPs' capacity to implement the project, and that the first would probably
improve it.
- 27 -



The Joint Power Coordinating Center (ZEKC) was established by the three Elektroprivredas in March
1999 as a business association registered in FBiH and headquartered in Sarajevo. It has a three-person
managing board, with one member appointed by each Elektroprivreda, and a three-person management
team, with one manager appointed by each Elektroprivreda. The ZEKC assets are jointly owned by the
Elektroprivredas.
ZEKC currently acts as an information exchange for the BiH system, collating hourly data and relaying it
to the control centers of the three Elektroprivredas. It also prepares the annual electricity balance for BiH.
The Articles of Agreement of ZEKC include an agreed schedule for the development of the Center's
responsibilities for the operation of the BiH power system. A complementary plan, detailing the planned
expansion of the Elektroprivredas' contributions of human and financial resources to ZEKC in order to
enable it to meet these responsibilities, was submitted to the Association in January 2000. Technical
assistance would be provided under the project to assist with the implementation of the development plan,
and with the achievement of the schedule of responsibilities set out in the Articles of Agreement of ZEKC.
4.2 Project management:
The project management arrangements used under Power 2 would be continued. In the RS, all aspects of
project management would be dealt with by a single Project Implementation Unit (PIU), located in and
staffed by EPRS. In the FBiH, a Federal PIU located in and staffed by the Federation Ministry of Energy,
Mining, and Industry (FMERI), would undertake the coordination of the two EP PIUs located in and
staffed by EPBiH and EPHZHB respectively, which would undertake the day-to-day management of the
project.
The staff of the four PIUs are experienced in the management of IDA-financed projects through their
management of Power 1 (EPBiH) and Power 2. The staffing of the Elektroprivreda PIUs is being
strengthened in accordance with needs identified by the Procurement Capacity Assessment and the
Financial Management Review. In addition, the PIUs' project management capacities would be supported
and improved by continued technical assistance from an international consultant who would assist in the
procurement process, oversee the implementation of the contracts, and provide training to the PIU
procurement staff.
See also Section C.4.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project implementation would require procurement of goods and works, and selection and employment
of consulting firms to carry out consulting services. The PIUs responsible for implementation of Power 2
(the Federal PIU, the branch PIUs in EPBiH and EPHZHB, and the PIU in EPRS) would continue for the
proposed project. The Procurement Capacity Assessment has identified the need for strengthening each of
the Elektroprivreda PIUs with qualified procurement staff. The Federal PIU would not require any
strengthening since it would not be handling procurement matters under the project.  In addition,
international consultants would work together with the PIUs of the three EPs during project
implementation. The foreign consultants would be employed to assist in procurement activities for the
rehabilitation of the transmission lines included in the project and for the Rama Hydro Power project. They
would also provide in-house training to the Elektropriovredas' procurement staff. A procurement workshop
would be organized by the Association immediately after Credit effectiveness to ensure that the agreed
procurement procedures are well understood by PIU staff.
See also Annex 6.
- 28 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management arrangements and issues are discussed in Section C.4 above and in Annex 11.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Consistent with the requirements for a Category "B" project, Environmental Management Plans (EMPs)
were prepared by the three Elektroprivredas, who have also agreed to implement the associated mitigation
actions (Section G.2(n)). The EMPs are in the Project Implementation Plan.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMPs, which are considered adequate, have identified the following issues:
Transmission lines
The major issue associated with the restoration of the transmission system is to assure that the
system being restored is safe with respect to exposure of local residents to electromagnetic radiation
by establishing that the levels are within acceptable limits (BiH, EU standards, etc.) during
operation. Other issues are associated with movement of men, materials, and equipment during
construction (noise, dust) and noise and communication interferences during operation.
Transmission substations
The major issue is the possible presence of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in the transformers or
other equipment in the substations (e.g. condensers) and, if found, the manner in which the PCBs will
be disposed of. Minor issues include establishing that exposure of local residents to electromagnetic
radiation and noise from restored substations is within acceptable limits (BiH, EU standards, etc.).
Additionally, if any of the existing transformers have experienced leaks, the possibility of existing
soil and/or groundwater contamination will be investigated.
Distribution
A minor issue is associated with disruption to transport, communications, etc. during the
construction phase.
Thermal Power Stations
Since the objective is to reduce pollution, there should be no major negative environmental issues.
Hydropower Stations
Since the objective is to rehabilitate existing plants in order to improve safety and availability, there
should be no negative environmental issues.
Associated mitigation actions are identified in the EMPs.
- 29 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: March 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
See Section E.6.2 below.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The particulate emissions at Tuzla (Unit 5) and at Kakanj (Unit 7) will be monitored to evaluate the impact
of the rehabilitation of the electrostatic precipitators.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Substantial direct benefits would accrue to consumers who rely on electricity for cooking and space heating
and at present have to endure limited or irregular supply, as well as to returning refugees for whom new or
reconstructed connections will be installed. The improvement of system-wide efficiency and the increase in
electricity trade would over the medium to long term reduce the unit cost of electricity supply and hence
represent a major benefit to the economy as a whole. However, since household tariff rates are below cost,
there may not be any price reduction even in the long term. Over the short to medium term, improved
collection of bills and the removal of distortions between household and other tariff rates under the project
could impose additional costs on household consumers.
Since poverty is widespread, and especially so amongst the refugee population, measures to target both the
incidence of project-related benefits and the mitigation of project-related costs to the poor would be
supported under the project.
In order to facilitate the targeting of project-related benefits, those donors planning to fund investments in
the low-voltage distribution network are undertaking case-by-case feasibility studies in close coordination
with the inter-agency Refugee Return Task Force (RRTF) to ensure that returning refugees and the poor
will benefit.
With regard to the mitigation of the social impact of improved collections and tariff reforms, a social
assessment would be carried out under the project. The principal aim of this social assessment would be to
inform the design of tariff reform programs in both Entities in conjunction with the tariff study carried out
under the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development's Emergency Power Reconstruction Project,
and to ensure that refugees, the poor, and the socially vulnerable are not disadvantaged by them. A
supplementary aim of the social assessment would be to inform the design of future investment projects of
the Elektroprivredas by establishing the priority areas of concem to consumers in terms of service
coverage, quality, and reliability.
The social assessment would incorporate both a quantitative study of household expenditure on electricity
services and substitutes and the impact of possible tariff increases, and a qualitative consumer satisfaction
survey. The quantitative study would assess household consumption of and expenditure on electricity
services. In combination with the household survey for Bosnia and Herzegovina due to be completed in
- 30 -



2001, this study would enable a comparative analysis of the impact of tariff increases during 2000-2001 on
household welfare, and particularly on refugees, the poor, and the socially vulnerable.
The consumer satisfaction survey would focus on the following topics:
(i)    Priority areas for rehabilitation and reconstruction of distribution networks;
(ii)    Service quality and reliability;
(iii)   Payment and collection mechanisms;
(iv)    Formal and informal mechanisms to cope with service cut-off; and
(v)    Patterns of electricity and substitute service consumption.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary beneficiaries of the project are residential, commercial and industrial consumers, including
returning refugees and other, vulnerable, low income users. The vulnerable users are participating in the
project through the social assessment to be carried out under the project.
Key stakeholders in the project are the three Elektroprivredas, the Joint Power Coordinating Center, the
Federation Ministry of Energy, Mining, and Industry (FMERI), and the Republika Srpska Ministry of
Energy and Industry (RSMEI). Other key stakeholders in the project include the International Community
in Bosnia and Herzegovina involved in the reconstruction and economic reform efforts. Key stakeholders
within the International Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been involved in project design, and
would be further involved in the project's implementation. Participation has been ensured by continuing
consultation with the Energy Sector Core Task Force, the Office of the High Representative, and bilateral
donor agencies with programs in refugee return, poverty alleviation, and the power sector itself.
The Elektroprivredas' environmental management plans, which involve new environmental investments,
have been prepared in consultation with consumer groups and local non-governmental organizations
(NGOs). In the preparation of the reconstruction components, on the other hand, there has not been direct
participation of final electricity consumers or NGOs, since the project aims to rehabilitate (and where
possible improve) existing facilities.  Wider participation in the planning of these reconstruction
components was not invited for the following reasons:
(i)    As far as is known, there is no significant disagreement within BiH on the need to rehabilitate the
electric power system. Since the project would rehabilitate existing facilities rather than construct
new ones, its justification and implementation would be relatively straightforward, and it would
have minimal adverse environmental impacts;
(ii)    There is broad agreement on the need for rapid action in order to improve electricity service as
soon as possible to households, services and industry; and
(iii)   The project's components would affect large numbers of persons spread throughout BiH so it
would be impractical to involve all affected final consumers directly.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See Section E.6.2 above.
- 31 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
See Section E.6.2 above.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfonnance in terms of social development outcomes?
Follow-up on consultations with the stakeholders will be carried out at the mid-term and project completion
reviews.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
L~v                               _    _   _   _    _   _    __':
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)            0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Mitigation Plans have been prepared in accordance with the requirements for a Category
"B" project, and implementation of the mitigation actions is covenanted.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Factors critical for sustainability include: (i) continued political stability; (ii) continued macroeconomic
progress in both Entities, which is needed to restore consumers' ability to pay for electricity; (iii)
satisfactory financial performance of the three Elektroprivredas; (iv) satisfactory coordination between the
enterprises to operate the BiH power system as a whole; and (v) steady progress towards establishing a
strong regulatory framework, a competitive power market, and an environment that encourages private
investment in the power sector. A further contributor to sustainability would be restoration of 400 kV
transmission facilities in neighboring countries (especially reconstruction of the Emestinovo substation and
associated transmission lines). At this time, the prospects for sustainability of Power 3 are likely.
- 32 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Ratin_             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Insufficient equipment maintenance         N         Ensure satisfactory financial performance of the
Elektroprivredas.
Failure to operate the BiH 400 kV and      S         The Elektroprivredas have made written
220 kV power networks on an integrated               commitments to operate the BiH system as a
basis                                                single control area in accordance with UCTE
requirements. A covenant is included.
Inadequate regulatory arrangements         S         Entity governments have adopted satisfactory
policy statements and presented satisfactory
draft electricity laws to Parliaments. Dated
covenants for implementation and technical
assistance are included.
Failure to commission a restructuring and  S         Dated covenants are included, and donor
privatization study and agree on an action           financing for the study is available.
plan for implementation.
Delay in reconstruction of Croatia's       M         Delay reconstruction of the
Emestinovo 400 kV substation                         Ugljevik-Emestinovo transmission line until
implementation of Emestinovo reconstruction
begins.
From Components to Outputs
Failure to secure full financing           M         Reasonably firm cofinancing commitments have
been obtained for all except US$ 13.6 million.
EIB has indicated an interest in financing this
gap. Failure to close the gap would not
jeopardize the rest of the project, since the
components without financing are separate.
Failure by Implementing Agencies to        N         Ensure satisfactory financial performance by the
cover all local costs                                Implementing Agencies. No problems have been
experienced in the financing of the local costs
under Power I and Power 2.
- 33 -



Delayed project completion                  M         Delays for technical reasons are unlikely since
the project is for rehabilitation only. Each
Elektroprivreda has an effective PIU and
technical assistance will be provided to the
Plus.
Cost overrun                                M         Adequate physical and price contingency
allowances have been provided in the cost
estimates.
Overall Risk Rating                         M         Power 1 was completed on time and within cost.
Power 2 has more ambitious institutional
reforms; its effectiveness was delayed by the
Association's decision to first ensure the
establishment of ZEKC. While Power 3 has
even more ambitious objectives than Power 2,
risks have been reduced by choosing realistic
goals and deadlines and by deepening the
Association's relationship with the
Elektroprivredas.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Special attention was paid to two risks. The first is that the Ernestinovo substation in Croatia and
associated transmission lines will not be reconstructed within the next few years. Before the war, this
substation was an important node in the 400 kV grid which linked together the power transmission system
of former Yugoslavia. Until it or a substitute is put into operation, an important part of the international
benefits of the project, through improved power interchanges in the Balkans, will not be realized. In
addition BiH would not earn any revenue from wheeling power between north-eastern Croatia and western
Croatia.  The wheeling benefit has a present value of US$ 8.9 million.  Reconstruction of the
Ugljevik-Emestinovo transmission line, for which the BiH portion is estimated to cost US$ 4.05 million,
will not be started until work begins on reconstructing Ernestinovo and the associated transmission lines.
Once the 400 kV system is completely restored there is still a risk that the wheeling revenue will be smaller
than US$ 8.9 million. Since the total net present value for the project is US$ 1,166 million, the impact of
this risk on the overall project benefits is negligible.
The second risk receiving special attention is that the BiH power system will not be operated as an
integrated system after the transmission systeim is rehabilitated and the SCADA system is completed. The
possible consequences would be the following:
-     The SCADA investment of about US$ 7.8 million made for ZEKC would be wasted since
non-integrated operation implies that ZEKC would be ineffectual. The SCADA investments in the
regional dispatch centers and the associated communications networks would still be useful.
-      BiH would be unable to rejoin the UCTE as a separate control area. Its membership might be
further delayed as a result. A possible scenario involving UCTE membership is that the Federation
would become part of the Croatia control area and RS would become part of a future FRY control
area. In such a scenario-additional metering investments would be needed at the interface between
-34 -



the Federation and RS power systems that would not be required if BiH is accepted as a single
control area. Additional investments might be needed within the Federation to permit it to meet the
primary and secondary regulation and other requirements of UCTE members that would not be
needed if BiH were a single control area.
Non-integrated operation would likely result in more frequent and longer power outages than
integrated operation. Both EPRS and EPHZHB have experienced system outages related to
breakdowns in their interconnections with the FRY and Croatian power grids respectively.
When the BiH system is operated under non-integrated mode, with the EPRS and Federation
networks not synchronized with each other, it would not be possible for EPRS to supply the full
power demand in northem RS. This problem is due to the fact that most of the power generating
capacity belonging to EPRS is in eastern and southern RS, whereas the main demand centers are in
the north and it is not possible to transmit additional power between the two parts of RS without
going through transmission lines belonging to EPBiH and/or EPHZHB. It is estimated that there
was a shortfall of 345 MW in northern RS out of a total load of 680 MW in the year 2000. This
particular problem is being resolved through a specific arrangement under which EPBiH is
supplying the power to northern RS. Integrated operation would allow more efficient transmission
of this power.
Non-integrated operation would not allow the Elektroprivredas to enjoy the benefits of wheeling
power to foreign markets evaluated in the cost-benefit analysis since in each case the power would
need to be transmitted through the transmission lines of more than one Elektroprivreda. With
non-integrated operation, these problems would likely be resolved through specific transit
agreements, but less efficiently.
-     Non-integrated operation would not allow fault levels at Capljina to be raised sufficiently to allow
this power station to be used for pumped storage.
-     Transmission system losses would be larger under non-integrated operation.
An economic cost-benefit analysis of the transmission and SCADA systems for the scenario of
non-integrated operation reduced the combined rate of return for these project components from 55% to
24%. This result is still satisfactory, but the difference between the two measures confirms that the
benefits of integrated operation are substantial.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
- 35 -



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(a)    Execution of subsidiary credit agreements between the Borrower and the Federation/EPBiH, the
Federation/EPHZHB and RS/EPRS.
(b)    Assignment of a skilled and experienced procurement officer in each of the PIUs of EPBiH.
EPHZHB and EPRS.
(c)    Appointment of an independent auditor acceptable to the Association by each of EPBiH, EPHZHB
and EPRS.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Borrower has agreed to:
(a)    onlend the IDA credit:
to the Federation Government for 35 years with a 10 year grace period and at the standard
IDA service charge;
*     through the Federation Government to EPBiH and EPHZHB at Libor plus 0.75% with 20
years of repayment including five years of grace;
*     through the RS Government to EPRS at Libor plus 0.75% with 20 years of repayment
including five years of grace; and
(b)    prepare and furnish by April 30, 2003 a report integrating the results of monitoring and evaluation
activities, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the project preceding this date, and setting
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following this date.
The Federation and Republika Srpska have agreed to:
(a)    start implementation of power sector restructuring and regulatory reform actions contained in the
policy statements approved by the Governments, including:
commissioning of a comprehensive study of the sequence, extent and timing of
restructuring and privatization of the Elektroprivredas in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Association and by consultants acceptable to the Association,
with the study to be completed by December 31, 2001;
on completion of the restructuring and privatization study, developing and agreeing with
the Association by February 28, 2002, detailed restructuring and privatization action plans
including an implementation schedule, followed by implementation of the agreed action
plans, with no prior restructuring or privatization of the Elektroprivredas taking place; in
the case of EPRS, no prior privatization will take place other than the purchase with
vouchers of warrants under conditions acceptable to the Association, with the warrants
- 36 -



entitling the bearer to purchase common shares upon the conversion of the constituent
enterprises of EPRS into joint stock companies, with this conversion only taking place
after the action plan has been agreed upon and in strict accordance with that plan;
appointment of independent Entity and State Regulatory Commissions by December 31,
2001; and
-      establishment of an Independent System Operator by March 31, 2002.
EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS have agreed to:
(a)    produce for each fiscal year after the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2001, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 40% of their respective capital expenditures estimated in
advance at a level satisfactory to the Association;
(b)   review with the Association, by October 15 of each year commnencing in 2001, their respective
proposed capital expenditures for the following five years, and take the Association's views into
consideration in finalizing the programs;
(c)    before October 15 in each fiscal year, commencing in 2001, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
them and satisfactory to the Association, review jointly with the Association whether they will meet
the requirements set forth in Para (a) above in respect of such year and the next following fiscal
year. If such a review shows that the requirements will not be met, the respective Elektroprivreda
shall take all necessary measures to meet such requirements;
(d)    not incur new debt unless the debt service requirements are covered at least 1.5 times by net
internal cash generation;
(e)    have their assets revalued and depreciation policies reviewed by qualified independent
organizations by June 30, 2002;
(f)    develop and agree with the Association, by September 30, 2002, a plan to carry out adjustments in
the structure and levels of electricity tariffs to ensure satisfactory financial performance and to
reflect cost of supply, taking into account both the results of the social assessment study to mitigate
the impact on the vulnerable segments of society and the revised depreciation charges, and
implement the agreed plan;
(g)    submit within 6 months after the closure of each fiscal year project accounts and financial
statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association;
(h)    make cash payments to the coal mines of at least 75% of the value of coal consumed each month,
starting January 2002, and attaining 100% cash payment by December 31, 2002 (EPBiH);
(i)    reduce and maintain total distribution losses below 12% for EPBiH, and below 19% by 2002, 16%
by 2003 and 12% by 2004 for EPHZHB and EPRS.
(j)    on completion of the rehabilitation of the high-voltage transmission network under Power 3,
operate the power system in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a single control area according to UCTE
rules, within the UCTE Control Block covering Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina; in
- 37 -



the event that the system of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia remains disconnected from the
UCTE system, selected EPRS generating units could be isolated, if desired by EPRS, from the rest
of the system in order to sell power to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia network;
(k)    revise the ZEKC Book of Rules and Grid Code by December 31, 2001 to bring them into
conformity with the Electricity Policy Statements and to remove discrepancies and overlaps
between these two documents;
(1)    reach agreement by December 31, 2001 with the Association on a plan and schedule covering the
additional resources to be provided by the Elektroprivredas to ZEKC to enable it to perform the
functions assigned to it under the November 1998 agreement and to enable it to function as the
Independent System Operator, and implement the plan in accordance with the agreed schedule;
(m)   establish a satisfactory company imanagement information system  (including a financial
management system based on international accounting standards) in each of the Elektroprivredas
by December 31, 2003; and
(n)    furnish and agree with the Association by December 31, 2001 revised implementation schedules
for the Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) and thereafter implement the EMPs in
accordance with these schedules.
H. Readiness for Implementation
L1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
I] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
01 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
O 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Mian Iftikhar Khalil              Henk Busz                             staan J. Poortman
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country ManagerlDirector
- 38 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
HIrarO     f Ob &                 Indclc-  s          Mon4lorl" & Evaluatbn    Cultial Asumpmions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector! country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthen institutions and    1. Improved revenue                                1. Continued political
governance.                collection relative to amounts                        stability.
billed.                                               2. Satisfactory economic
2. Convert ZEKC to ISO.                               growth.
Foster private sector-led  Energy laws and regulatory                             Same.
growth and employment.     agencies.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Ensure access to reliable,  1. Increased restored and new  1. Project progress reports.    1. Continued progress in
lower cost electricity, to be    connections.         2. Supervision reports.     cooperation between the
supplied with reduced      2. Reduced distribution losses 3. Mid-term review.     Elektroprivredas.
environmental and safety   and avoidance of increase in                           2. Continued efforts by
risks, and improved cost  transmission losses.                                    suppliers to improve bill
recovery by the suppliers.    3. Reduced particulate                              collection and reduce
emissions at rehabilitated                            non-technical distribution
thermal power stations.                               losses.
4. Improved self-financing of                         3. Government willingness to
investments.                                          raise electricity prices when
5. Improved revenue                                   needed to ensure the suppliers'
collection relative to amounts                        financial viability.
billed.
6. Satisfactory debt service
coverage ratio.
- 39 -



*                                        Mon  .   .  v iion   ~r.i  iTtiUNilons|
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Increase transmission      Length of transmission lines    1. Project progress reports.   Satisfactory maintenance of
capacity.                  and number of substations    2. Supervision reports.    restored facilities.
restored.                   3. Mid-term review.
Increase distribution capacity. Completion of planned  Same.                       Successful coordination with
expenditures.                                          refugee return.
Improve coordinated        Increased gross power flows   Same.                    Increased role of ZEKC in
operation of the BiH power   between the EPs.                                      economic dispatch of power
system.                                                                            throughout BiH.
Establish a legislative and  Passage of laws and physical  Same.                   Willingness by Governments
regulatory framework       establishment of regulatory                             to establish and carry out an
conducive to privatization and agencies.                                           effective reform policy.
competition.
Prepare restructuring and  1. Completion of study.     Same.                       Prompt and full
privatization.             2. Adoption of satisfactory                            implementation of the adopted
plans.                                                 plans.
Improve availability and   Completion of planned       Same.
safety at hydropower plants.  expenditures.
Reduce pollution at thermal   Reduced particulate emissions Same.                  Satisfactory maintenance of
power plants.              at specified plants.                                    pollution control
arrangements.
Establish new management   Beginning of operation of the  Same.                    Adjustment of the planned
information systems.       new systems.                                            systems to fit the restructured
sector.
- 40 -



.            .    ~~~Key Pentormam
HI2,rphy .s, ~ctlv.. __________A    O   ,, Mrai A#w"ImpU.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Transmission.             US$ 91.1 million            1. Project progress reports.   1. Avoided delay.
2. Supervision missions.    2. Avoided cost overruns.
3. Mid-term review.
Distribution.              US$ 42.9 million          Same.                      Same.
SCADA and communications US$ 44.2 million            Same.                      Same.
facilities.
Availability and safety   US$ 22.6 million           Same.                       1. Securing of full financing.
investments at hydropower                                                       2. Avoided delay.
stations.                                                                       3. Avoided cost overruns,
Environmental investments at US$ 16.9 million        Same.                      Same.
thermal power stations.
Technical assistance for  US$ 13.4 million            Same.                      1. Securing of full financing.
procurement, social                                                             2. Avoided delay.
assessment, power sector
regulation, and management
information systems.
-41 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
The proposed project would combine the continuation of the post-war reconstruction of the BiH power
sector with support for restructuring and reform. A major objective would be to rehabilitate the damaged
400 kV network in order to enable BiH to operate its power system on an integrated basis and to rejoin the
Union for the Coordination of Transmission in Europe (UCTE).
There would be seven principal project components:
I .    Rehabilitation of the high voltage transmission network lines started under Power 2.
2.     Reconstruction of key 400/220/110 kV substations.
3..    Establishment of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System and associated
telecommunications facilities.
4.    Investrnents at the Jablanica, Rama ancl Trebinje hydropower stations to improve safety and
availability.
5.    Investments at the Tuzla, Kakanj, Gacko and Ugljevik thermal power stations to control pollution.
6.     Distribution investments focussing on:
(i)    areas identified for refugee return;
(ii)   heavily damaged and cut-off areas, which have little or no electricity supply;
(iii)   areas with seriously overloaded networks, due to resettlement of refugees; and
(iv)   areas with war damage where rnany connections are of a temporary nature and power
supply is unreliable and unsafe.
7.     Technical assistance and training in support of:
(i)    procurement and implementation of the physical components;
(ii)   the development of the Joint Power Coordinating Center (ZEKC) into an Independent
System Operator for the BiH system;
(iii)   a survey of socially vulnerable electricity consumers;
(iv)   corporatization and commercialization of the power sector enterprises; and
(v)    establishment of independent power sector regulatory agencies for BiM.
Training would be included for (i), (ii), (iv) and (v).
The various project sub-components (with costs excluding physical and price contingencies in brackets) are
described below.
- 42 -



By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$26.54 million
Transmission Lines
Transmission Lines (EPBiH) (Total US$ 11.56)
Reconstruction of war damage, including right-of-way clearing, replacement of damaged parts of existing
towers, construction of new towers to replace destroyed ones, dismantling of damaged insulators, hardware
and conductors and ground wires, and stringing, along the following lines:
1)    TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Mostar 4 (US$ 4.49 million).
2)    TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Sarajevo 20 (US$ 0.87 million).
3)    TL 400 kV Mostar 4 - Gacko (US$ 1.20 million).
4)    TL 400 kV Visegrad - Tuzla (US$ 1.58 million).
5)    TL 400 kV Ugljevik - Emestinovo (US$ 1.30 million).
6)    TL 220 kV Jajce - Mraclin (US$ 0.67 million).
7)    TL 220 kV Tuzla - Gradacac - Djakovo (US$ 0.12 million).
8)    TL 110 kV Mostar - Nevesinje (US$ 1.34 million).
Transmission Lines (EPHZHB) (Total US$ 4.15 million)
Reconstruction of war damage, including right-of-way clearing, replacement of damaged parts of existing
towers, construction of new towers to replace destroyed ones, dismantling of damaged insulators, hardware
and conductors and ground wires, and stringing, along the following lines:
1)    TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Mostar 4 (US$ 0.83 million).
2)    TL 400 kV Mostar 4 - Gacko (US$ 1.16 million).
3)    TL 400 kV Ugljevik - Emestinovo (US$ 0.98 million).
4)    TL 220 kV Jajce - Mraclin (US$ 0.10 million).
5)    TL 220 kV Kakanj - Prijedor (US$1.08 million).
- 43 -



Transmission Lines (EPRS) (Total US$ 10.83 million)
Reconstruction of war damage, including right-of-way clearing, replacement of damaged parts of existing
towers, construction of new towers to replace destroyed ones, dismantling of damaged insulators, hardware
and conductors and ground wires, and stringin,g, along the following lines:
1)    TL 400 kV Visegrad - Tuzla (US$ 2.52 million).
2)    TL 400 kV Mostar 4 - Gacko (US$ 1.49 million).
3)    TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Sarajevo 20 (US$ 0.84 million).
4)    TL 400 kV Ugljevik - Emestinovo (US$ 1.77 million).
5)    TL 220 kV Jajce - Prijedor (US$ 0.66 million).
6)    TL 220 kV Prijedor - Sisak (US$ 0.74 million).
7)    TL 220 kV Tuzla - Gradacac - Djakovo (US$ 1.05 million).
8)    TL 110 kV Mostar - Nevesinje (US$ 1.60 million).
9)    TL 220 kV Dubrovnik- Trebinje (US$ 0.16 million).
Project Component 2 - US$55.22 million
Transmission Substations
Substations (EPBiH) (Total US$ 15.40 million)
1)    TS 400/220/110 kV Tuzla (US$ 5.21 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment
including replacement of 420 kV, 220 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, 420 kV, 220 kV and 110 kV busbar
disconnectors, 400 kV line disconnectors, instrument transformers, arresters, post insulators and secondary
equipment comprising protection and remote control equipment, owner consumption (rectifier and inverter)
2)    TS 400/110 kV Sarajevo 10 (US$ 3.44 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment
including replacement of 420 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, 420 kV and 110 kV busbar disconnectors,
420 kV and 110 kV line disconnectors, instrument transformers, arresters, post insulators and secondary
equipment comprising protection and remote control equipment, owner consumption (rectifier).
3)    SG 220 kV Kakanj (US$ 1.21 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment including
replacement of instrument transformers and secondary equipment comprising protection and remote control
equipment and owner consumption (battery, rectifier and inverter).
4)    SG 220 kV Jablanica (US$ 1.24 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment including
replacement of 220 kV circuit breakers, 220 kV busbar disconnectors, 220 kV line disconnectors.
instrument transformers and secondary equipment comprising protection and remote control equipment and
owner consumption (battery, rectifier, inverter, AC and DC cabinets).
- 44 -



5)     TS 220/110 kV Zenica 2 (US$ 2.33 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment
including replacement of 220 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, instrument transformers and secondary
equipment comprising protection and remote control equipment and owner consumption (battery, rectifier
and inverter).
6)    TS 220/110 kV Bihac 1 (US$ 1.14 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment
including replacement of 220 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers and secondary equipment comprising
protection and remote control equipment.
7)    TS 220/110/35/10(20) kV Gradacac (US$ 0.74 million): Rehabilitation of secondary equipment
comprising protection, remote control equipment and communications equipment.
8)    TS 110/35/10 kV Mostar 2 (US$ 0.09 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment
including replacement of 110 kV circuit breakers, 110 kV busbar disconnectors, 110 kV line disconnectors
and instrument transformers.
Substations (EPHZHB) (Total US$ 16.66 million)
1)    TS 400/220/110/35 kV Mostar 4 (US$ 12.41 million): Reconstruction of 400 kV substation and
provision of new primary electrical equipment comprising 420 kV breakers, 420 kV busbar disconnectors,
420 kV disconnects, instrument transformers, arresters, line traps, post insulators, support structures,
busbars and connections and secondary equipment comprising protective relays, control, metering, fault
recording equipment (including breaker fail protection) and communication equipment. Rehabilitation of
220 kV and 110 kV substation including circuit breakers, instrument transformers, and power
transformers, line traps and surge arresters together with secondary equipment comprising protective
relays, control, metering fault recording equipment, (including breaker fail protection), and communication
equipment.
2)    TS 220/110/35 kV Jajce 2 (US$ 2.22 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment
including replacement of 220 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, 220 kV and 110 kV busbar disconnectors,
220 kV and 110 kV line disconnectors, 110 kV instrument transformers, arresters, line traps and secondary
equipment comprising protective relays, control, metering, fault recording equipment (including breaker fail
protection) and communication equipment.
3)    TS 220 kV Mostar 3 (US$ 2.03 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment including
replacement of 220 kV circuit breakers, 220 kV busbar disconnectors, 220 kV line disconnectors, line traps
and secondary equipment comprising protective relays, control, metering, fault recording equipment
(including breaker fail protection) and communication equipment.
Substations (EPRS) (Total US$ 23.17 million)
1)    TS 400/220/110 kV Visegrad 370 (US$ 2.50 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical
equipment including replacement of 420 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, 420 kV and 110 kV busbar
disconnectors, 420 kV line disconnectors, instrument transformers, arresters and secondary equipment
comprising protective relays, control, metering, communication equipment and owner consumption
(battery, rectifier and inverter).
- 45 -



2)    TS 380/110/x kV Ugljevik (US$ 1.77 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment
including replacement of 420 kV circuit breakers, 420 kV line disconnectors, instrument transformers,
arresters and secondary equipment comprising protective relays, control, metering, communication
equipment and owner consumption (battery, rectifier and inverter).
3)    TS 400/220/110 kV Trebinje (US$ 4.52 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment
including replacement of 420 kV, 220 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, 420 kV, 220 kV and 110 kV busbar
disconnectors, 420 kV, 220 kV and 110 kV line disconnectors, instrument transformers, arresters and
secondary equipment comprising protective relays, control, metering, communication equipment and owner
consumption (battery, rectifier and inverter).
4)    TS 400/110 kV Banja Luka 6 (US$ 2.44 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment
including replacement of 420 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, 420 kV and 110 kV busbar disconnectors,
420 kV and 110 kV line disconnectors, instrument transformers, arresters and secondary equipment
comprising protective relays, control, metering and communication equipment.
5)    TS 380/110/x kV Gacko (Switchgear in Gacko TPP) (US$ 2.00 million): Rehabilitation of
primary electrical equipment including replacement of 420 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, 420 kV busbar
disconnectors and supporting insulators, 420 kV line disconnectors, instrument transforners, arresters and
secondary equipment comprising protective relays, control, metering, communication equipment and owner
consumption (battery, rectifier and inverter).
6)    TS 400/220/110 kV Sarajevo 20 (Lukavica) (US$ 7.12 million): Rehabilitation of primary
electrical equipment including replacement of 420 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, 420 kV and 110 kV
busbar disconnectors, 420 kV and 110 kV line disconnectors, instrument transformers, arresters and
secondary equipment comprising protective relays, control, metering, communication equipment and owner
consumption (battery, rectifier and inverter). 420/220/110 kV power transformer is also required.
7)    TS 220/110 kV Prijedor 2 (329) (USS 2.82 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment
including replacement of 220 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, 220 kV and 110 kV busbar disconnectors,
220 kV and 110 kV line disconnectors, instrument transformers, arresters and secondary equipment
comprising protective relays, control, metering and communication equipment.
Project Component 3 - US$ 39.06 million
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System (SCADA) (US$ 39.06 million)
A supervisory control and data acquisition system, comprising three regional control centers and an overall
central dispatch center, together with a telecommunications system to interconnect the regional centers with
their 400 kV, 220 kV and selected 110 kV substations and hydro/thermal generating plant, as well as
between the regional and central dispatch center's supervisory control and data acquisition system
- 46 -



Project Component 4 - US$20.40 million
Hydropower Stations
EPBiH: HPP Jablanica Unit 5 (US$ 4.54 million)
I)    Rehabilitation of Unit 5: turbine, generator, and switchgear.
2)     Rehabilitation of the dam monitoring and control equipment.
EPBiH: HPP Jablanica Unit 6 and Common Services (US$ 9.51 million)
1)    Rehabilitation of Unit 6: turbine, generator, exciter, and overhaul of generator transformer.
2)     Replacement of unit control and protection.
3)    Rehabilitation of cooling water.
4)     Repair of drainage and de-watering systems plus spillway gates.
5)    Upgrading and replacement of dam instrumentation.
6)     Rehabilitation of 1lOkV  substation comprising supply and installation of circuit breakers,
disconnectors, instrument transformers, arresters, conductor, insulators, equipment and busbar structures,
together with all secondary equipment comprising protection control and communications apparatus.
EPHZHB: HPP Rama (US$ 3.14 million)
1)    Rehabilitation of power tunnel, inspection and repair of surge shaft.
EPRS: HPP Trebinje (US$ 3.20 million)
1)    Rehabilitation of Unit 1: turbine, generator, excitation system  and overhaul of generator
transfonner.
2)    Replacement of unit control and protection.
3)    Rehabilitation of draft tube gates and replacement of Inlet Servo Valve for unit 1.
4)    A new third set of draft tube gates.
5)     Rehabilitation of cooling water and drainage dewatering schemes.
-47 -



Project Component 5 - US$14.99 million
Environmental Investments at Thermal Power Stations
EPBiH: TPP Tuzia (US$ 3.09 million)
1)    Rehabilitation of the Unit 5 electrostatic precipitator.
EPBiH: TPP Kakanj (US$ 5.03 million)
1)    Completion of the cooling water re-circulation system and rehabilitation of the Unit 7 electrostatic
precipitator.
EPRS: TPP Gacko (US$ 1.46 million)
1)    Reclamation of the Granica ash disposal site.
EPRS: TPP Ugljevik (US$ 5.41 million)
1)    Introduction of a new system of ash transport and disposal.
Project Component 6 - US$38.98 million
Distribution
EPBiH (Total US$ 14.95 million)
Rehabilitation of distribution substations, comprising SF6 insulated switchgears, power transformers,
arresters, insulators, switches, rehabilitation of distribution lines comprising conductors, splices and
terminations, poles and towers, in the following areas:
1)    Distribution Division Mostar (US$ 1.80 million).
2)     Distribution Division Tuzla (US$ 3.54 million).
3)     Distribution Division Bihac (US$ 0.82 million).
4)     Distribution Division Gorazde (US$ 0.54 million).
5)     Distribution Division Sarajevo (US$ 1.66 million).
6)     Distribution Division Travnik (USS 4.41 million).
7)     Distribution Division Mostar 1 (US$ 0.65 million).
8)     Distribution Division Tuzla I (US$ 0.60 miallion).
- 48 -



9)     Distribution Division Zenica (US$ 0.93 million).
EPHZHB (Total US$ 10.67 million)
Rehabilitation of distribution substations, comprising switchgears, pole mounted transformer stations,
power transformers, arresters, insulators, switches, rehabilitation of distribution lines comprising
conductors and cables, splices and terninations, poles and towers, in the following areas:
1)     Canton No.6: Jajce, Vitez, Novi Travnik, Zepce, Usora, Novi Seher (US$ 2.53 million).
2)     Canton No.7: Citluk, Doljani, Ravno, Capljina, Stolac, Mostar, Neum, Rama (US$ 4.59 million).
3)     Canton No.8: Siroki Brijeg, Posusje, Grude (US$ 2.04 million).
4)     Canton No.10: Drvar, Tomislavgrad, Glamoc, Kupres (US$ 1.50 million).
EPRS (Total US$ 13.36 million)
Rehabilitation of distribution substations, comprising metal clad switchgears, AC/DC auxiliary supplies,
protection, power transformers, instrument transformers, disconnect switches, pole mounted transformer
stations, circuit breakers, insulators, arresters, busbars, rehabilitation of distribution lines comprising
conductors and cables, poles and crossarms, structures and hardware, in the following areas:
1 )    Distribution Division Banja Luka (US$ 2.89 million).
2)     Distribution Division Doboj (US$ 2.11 million).
3)     Distribution Division Bijeljina (US$ 2.19 million).
4)     Distribution Division Pale (USS 1.52 million).
5)     Distribution Division Herzegovina (US$ 1.01 million).
6)     Vehicles and Special Tools (US$ 3.65 million).
Project Component 7 - US$13.38 million
Technical Assistance
The project would include the following technical assistance components totaling about US$ 13.38 million:
1 )    Assistance to the Elektroprivreda PIUs in the procurement and implementation supervision of the
IDA-financed components, including procurement capacity and other training.
2)     A social survey of consumers to identify those who would need assistance to pay for electricity.
3)     Assistance  for corporatization  (including  the  creation  of opening  balance  sheets) and
- 49 -



commercialization (including the establishment of financial management and management information
systems) of the Elektroprivredas.
4)     Assistance in the establishment of the Independent System Operator, and assistance to ZEKC to
enable it to fulfil that role.
5)     Assistance in establishing the independent power sector regulatory agencies and training for their
staff.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS (excluding contingencies)
ITEM                               COSTS (US$)
Local      Foreign       Total
A. 1. Transmission Lines
A. 1. 1. EPBiH
1. Sarajevo 10 - Mostar 400 kV               825,000    3,662,000    4,487,000
2. Sarajevo 10 - Sarajevo 20 400 kV          148,000      726,000     874,000
3. Mostar 4 - Gacko 400 kV                   197,000    1,000,000    1,197,000
4. Visegrad - Tuzla 400 kV                   329,000    1,246,000    1,575,000
5. Ugljevik - Ernestinovo 400 kV             222,000    1,074,000    1,296,000
6. Jajce - Mraclin 220 kV                    316,000      356,000     672,000
7. Tuzla-Gradacac-Djakovo220kV                     0      121,000     121,000
8. Mostar - Nevesinje 110 kV                 104,000    1,237,000    1,341,000
Total                                      2,141,000    9,422,000   11,563,000
A. 1. 2. EPHZHB
1. Mostar 4 - Sarajevo 400 kV                185,000      640,000     825,000
2. Mostar 4 - Gacko 400 kV                   176,000      986,000    1,162,000
3. Ugljevik - Emestinovo 400 kV              235,000      748,000     983,000
4. Jajce - Mraclin 220 kV                     44,000       59,000     103,000
5. Kakanj - Prijedor 220 kV                  125,000      952,000    1,077,000
Total                                        765,000    3,385,000    4,150,000
A. 1. 3. EPRS
1. Visegrad - Zvornik - Tuzia 400 kV         559,000    1,957,000    2,516,000
2. Mostar 4 - Gacko 400 kV                   211,000    1,275,000    1,486,000
3. Sarajevo 10 - Sarajevo 20 400 kV          105,000      737,000     842,000
4. Ugljevik- Emestinovo 400 kV               174,000    1,595,000    1,769,000
5. Jajce-Prijedor220kV                       150,000      511,000     661,000
6. Prijedor - Sisak 220 kV                   158,000      586,000     744,000
7. Gradacac- Djakovo 220 kV                  141,000      905,000    1,046,000
8. Mostar- Nevesinje 110 kV                  161,000    1,441,000    1,602,000
9. Dubrovnik - Trebinje 220 kV                56,000      103,000     159,000
Total                                      1,715,000    9,110,000   10,825,000
Transmission Lines Total                   4,621,000   21,917,000   26,538,000
All totals rounded off to nearest 1,000.
51 -



ITEM                             COSTS (US$)
Local      Foreign      Total
A. 2. Substations - 400 kV and 220 kV
A. 2. 1. EPBiH
1. TS 400/220/110 kV Tuzla                 894,000    4,312,000    5,206,000
2. TS 400/110 kV Sarajevo 10               591,000    2,849,000    3,440,000
3. SG 220 kV Kakani                        209,000    1,004,000    1,213,000
4. SG 220 kV Jablanica                     213,000    1,031,000    1,244,000
5. TS 220/110 kV Zenica 2                  400,000    1,925,000    2,325,000
6. TS 220/110 kV Bihac 1                   195,000     943,000    1,138,000
7. TS 220/110/35/10(20) kV Gradacac        126,000     609,000     735,000
8. TS 110/35/10 kV Mostar 2                 16,000      78,000      94,000
Total                                    2,644,000   12,751,000   15,395,000
A. 2.2. EPHZHB
1. 400/x kV Mostar 4                      2,126,000   10,285,000   12,411,000
2. 220/x kV Jajce 2                        379,000    1,836,000    2,215,000
3. 220 kV Mostar 3                         348,000    1,684,000    2,032,000
Total                                    2,853,000   13,805,000   16,658,000
A. 2.3. EPRS
1. SS 400/220/110 kV Visegrad              455,000    2,042,000    2,497,000
2. SS 400/11 0/x kV Ugljevik               324,000    1,450,000    1,774,000
3. SS 400/220/110 kVTrebinje               824,000    3,694,000    4,518,000
4. SS 400/11 0/x kV Banja Luka 6           444,000    1,995,000    2,439,000
5. SS 400/100/x kV Gacko                   365,000    1,636,000    2,001,000
6. SS 400/220/110 kV Sarajevo 20 (Lukavica)  1,298,000    5,819,000    7,117,000
7. SS 220/110 kV Prijedor 2                515,000    2,308,000    2,823,000
Total                                    4,225,000   18,944,000   23,169,000
Substations Total                         9,722,000   45,500,000   55,222,000
Transmission Component Total             14,343,000   67,417,000   81,760,000
All totals rounded off to nearest 1,000.
- 52 -



ITEM                             COSTS (US$)
Local      Foreign      Total
B. SCADA                                 6,180,000   32,880,000   39,060,000
C. Hydropower Station Component
C. 1. EPBiH
1. HPP Jablanica                          1,374,000   12,675,000   14,049,000
C. 2. EPHZHB
1. HPP Rama                                505,000    2,639,000    3,144,000
C. 3. EPRS
1. HPP Trebinje                            666,000    2,537,000    3,203,000
Hydropower Station Component Total        2,545,000   17,851,000   20,396,000
D. Thermal Power Station Component
D. 1. EPBiH
1. TPP Tuzla                               364,000    2,727,000    3,091,000
2. TPP Kakanj                              540,000    4,487,000    5,027,000
Total                                      904,000    7,214,000    8,118,000
D. 2. EPRS
1. M&TPP Gacko                             491,000     968,000    1,459,000
2. M&TPP Ugljevik                         1,275,000    4,135,000    5,410,000
Total                                     1,766,000    5,103,000    6,869,000
Thermal Power Station Component Total     2,670,000   12,317,000   14,987,000
All totals rounded off to nearest 1,000.
- 53 -



ITEM                             COSTS (US$)
Local      Foreign      Total
E. Distribution Component
E. 1. EPBiH
1. Mostar-NORAD                                 0    1,793,000    1,793,000
2. Tuzla-NORAD                                  0    3,542,000    3,542,000
3. Bihac                                  294,000     529,000     823,000
4. Gorazde                                 150,000     387,000    537,000
5. Sarajevo                                393,000    1,269,000    1,662,000
6. Travnik                               1,042,000    3,363,000    4,405,000
7. Mostar 1                                154,000    497,000     651,000
8. Tuzla 1                                 162,000    440,000     602,000
9. Zenica                                  221,000     712,000    933,000
Total                                    2,416,000   12,532,000   14,948,000
E. 2. EPHZHB
CANTON 6
1. Jajce                                   95,000     524,000     619,000
2. Vitez                                   128,000     702,000    830,000
3. Novi Travnik                            107,000    590,000     697,000
4. Zepce                                    27,000     150,000     177,000
5. Usora                                    19,000     103,000    122,000
6. Novi Seher                               13,000      70,000     83,000
Total Canton 6                            389,000    2,139,000    2,528,000
CANTON 7
1. Citluk                                  45,000     248,000     293,000
2. Doljani                                  13,000     70,000      83,000
3. Ravno                                   26,000      140,000    166,000
4. Capljina                                 55,000     304,000    359,000
5. Stolac                                   51,000    281,000     332,000
6. Mostar                                  347,000    1,907,000    2,254,000
7. Neum                                    56,000      303,000    359,000
8. Rama                                    115,000     632,000    747,000
Total Canton 7                            708,000    3,885,000    4,593,000
CANTON 8
1. Siroki Brijeg                           94,000     515,000     609,000
2. Posusje                                 71,000     388,000     459,000
3. Grude                                   150,000    825,000     975,000
Total Canton 8                            315,000    1,728,000    2,043,000
All totals rounded off to nearest 1,000.
- 54 -



ITEM                             COSTS (US$)
Local      Foreign      Total
CANTON 10
1. Drvar                                    42,000     233,000     275,000
2. Tomislavgrad                             53,000     288,000     341,000
3. Glamoc                                   73,000     403,000     476,000
4. Kupres                                   63,000     346,000     409,000
Total Canton 10                            231,000    1,270,000    1,501,000
Total EPHZHB                              1,643,000    9,022,000   10,665,000
E. 3. EPRS
1. Banja Luka                              715,000    2,176,000    2,891,000
2. Doboj                                   534,000    1,574,000    2,108,000
3. Bijelina                                545,000    1,642,000    2,187,000
4. Pale                                    491,000    1,026,000    1,517,000
5. Herzegovina                             327,000     684,000    1,011,000
6. Vehicles & Special Tools                     0    3,650,000    3,650,000
Total                                    2,612,000   10,752,000   13,364,000
Distribution Component Total              6,671,000   32,251,000   38,977,000
F. Technical Assistance                         o   13,380,000   13,380,000
Total A+B+C+D+E+F                        32,409,000  176,096,000  208,505,000
Physical Contingencies                   2,000,000   11,540,000   13,540,000
Price Contingencies                      2,354,000    6,734,000    9,088,000
TOTAL INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES           36,763,000  194,370,000  231,133,000
All totals rounded off to nearest 1,000.
- 55 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Prsn 3      au -e :f Flowsjiiii  j00 FiRca Impact0000003i t:;: 
Economic i1 Financial        s1
______________fF   An   ly i     _ __  __  _  __  _ tu::Q:Q:;;;AL:uX:a:  ,. ,Taxes  ;   ubSidlps
Benefits:             $1,442 million      $ 581 million      $4.3 million
Costs:                 $ 276 million      $ 282 million
Net Benefits:        $ 1,166 million      $ 299 million
IRR:                           61%                32%
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Economic analysis. Separate benefits were identified and measured for the different project components.
For transmission, the measured benefits include:
(i)    reductions in transmission losses;
(ii)   reductions in unserved energy caused by power outages in the transmission system;
(iii)   increased electricity sales from the Gacko and Visegrad power stations made possible by the
removal of transmission constraints;
(iv)   resumption of pumped storage at the Capljina hydropower station made possible by an increase in
fault levels due to transmission system rehabilitation;
(v)    revenue from transmission within BiH of power intended for foreign markets; and
(vi)   the benefit (measured by willingness to pay determined on the basis of the cost of alternative
energy) of transmission of additional electricity to markets within BiH.
For distribution, the measured benefits include:
(i)    reductions in unserved energy caused by power outages in the distribution system; and
(ii)   increased sales made possible by distribution system restoration (measured by willingness to pay
determined on the basis of the cost of alternative energy).
For the SCADA/EMS the measured benefits include:
(i)    salary savings due to staff reductions at hydropower plants, substations and in record keeping
units;
(ii)   reductions in unserved energy attributable to improved dispatching; and
(iii)   revenue from sale of spare communications capacity. For hydropower investments, the measured
benefits consist of improved availability of generating capacity at the Jablanica and Trebinje
hydropower stations.
- 56 -



The costs consist of 85% of the project investments plus operating and maintenance expenses. The omitted
investments, for which it was not possible to reliably calculate the benefits, included the safety-related
investments at the Rama hydropower station, the environmental investments at the thermal power plants,
and the technical assistance. Import duties and other indirect taxes were excluded. A shadow exchange
rate 7.5% higher in local currency than the actual rate was used, on the assumption that the current rate is
distorted by import duties averaging about 7.5% of import prices. A shadow wage rate was not used
because a reliable estimate was not available, and its use would increase an already higher than adequate
rate of return. The estimates were made in constant prices as of January 1, 2001.
Financial Analysis. The benefits used for the economic analysis were also used for the financial analysis.
However, two types of benefits were measured differently. Reductions in unserved energy were measured
in the financial analysis using the actual average retail tariff rate of US$ 0.056/ kWh whereas a higher
estimate of US$ 0.25/kWh was used in the economic analysis based on estimates in other countries of
willingness to pay to protect against unplanned outages. Increased electricity sales were measured in the
financial analysis using the actual tariff rate whereas a willingness to pay estimate of US$ 0.14/kWh was
used in the economic analysis. These two adjustments largely explain why the financial rate of return is
less than the economic rate of return for the project. The financial analysis is in nominal prices. Local
taxes are included in the costs. Shadow prices were not used.
Main Assumptions:
Economic Analysis
The benefit and cost estimates, except for the SCADA system, were prepared by Agra Monenco Inc. and
given in full detail in "Electric Power III Reconstruction, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Final Report", January
2000, Section 8, as updated in April 2001. The assumptions for these estimates as well as for the rate of
return estimates for the SCADA system are summarized below.
Net Present Value Calculations: All costs and benefits were converted to US dollars at the average
exchange rate for the year 2000 of US$ 1.00 = KM 2.10. All discounting was done to January 1, 2001. A
real discount rate of 12% was used.
Equipment Lifetimes: Equipment lifetimes were assumed to be the following: transmission (25 years),
distribution (25 years), hydro (20 years), SCADA system (20 years).
Investment costs: The estimates are in constant US dollars as of January 1, 2001, and exclude import
duties and local taxes. A conversion factor of 1.075 was used to multiply the actual exchange rate in order
to estimate the shadow price of foreign exchange in local currency terms. The factor was estimated on the
basis that the main distorting factor are import duties assumed to average about 7.5% of import values.
The estimates include physical contingencies of: 5% for transmission and hydro investments; 10% for
distribution investments and 9.3% for the SCADA system.
- 57 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(US$ million)
NPV       EIRR
2001      2002      2003       2004      2005      2006       2007      2008                 2028 (at 12%)
TransmIssIon Costs
Investment                          0      66.4       23.8         0         0         0          0         0    ----            0    $69.9
O&M                                 0         0          0        1.8       1.8       1.8        1.8       1.8   ----           1.8    $10.0
Subtotal                            0      66.4       23.8       1.8        1.8       1.8       1.8        1.8   ---.          1.8    $79.9
Transmlion Benefits
Gacko-Mostar                        0         0          0       1.4        3.3       3.3       3.3        3.3   ----          0.3    $16.9
Visegrad-Tuzla                      0         0          0       3.8        3.8       3.8       3.8        3.8   ----          3.8    $21.2
Inernate onal connections           0         0          0      18.4      23.5       29.1      31.3       33.5   ----           33   $180.4
Loss Reduc. & Capljina              0         0         0          7        7.1       7.1       7.2        7.2   ----          7.4    $40.5
Additional Sales                    0         0          0         0      51.4       71.6      72.7       84.5   ----        185.1   $588.7
Subtotal                            0         0          0      30.6      89.1      114.9     118.3      132.3   ----        229.6   $847.7
NetBenefits                         0      -66.4     -23.8      28.8      87.3      113.1     116.5     130.5   ----         227.8   $767.8        62%
Dlstributlon Costs
Investment                       45.4         0          0         0         0         0          0         0    ----            0    $40.5
Other                               0       12.3      12.3      12.3       12.3      12.3      15.7       15.7   ----          15.7   $100.4
Subtotal                         45.4      12.3       12.3      12.3       12.3      12.3      15.7       15.7   ----         15.7   $140.9
Distribution Benefits
Reduc. unserved energy              0       6.3        6.3       6.3       6.3        6.3      31.4       31.4   ----         31.4   $141.9
AddtiSonal sales                    0      43.9       43.9      43.9      43.9       43.9      43.9       43.9   ----         43.9   $311.3
Subtotal                            0      50.2       50.2      50.2      50.2       50.2      75.3       75.3   ----         75.3   $453.2
Net Benefts                     -45.4      37.9       37.9      37.9      37.9       37.9      59.6       59.6   ----         59.6   $312.3        86%
Hydro - Jablsnica 15
Costs                               6        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1   ----            0      $6.0
Benefits                            0         0         0        3.3        3.3       3.3       3.3        3.3   ----            0    $17.5
Net Benefits                       -6       -0.1      -0.1       3.2        3.2       3.2       3.2        3.2   ----            0    $11.5        30%
Hydro - Jablsnica #6
Costs                               0       7.8          2       0,2        0.2       0.2       0.2        0.2   ----            0      $8.7
Benefits                            0         0          0         0         0         0        3.3        3.3   ----            0    $11.9
Not Benefits                        0       -7.8        -2       -0.2      -0.2      -0.2       3.1        3.1   ----            0      $3.2       16%
Hydro - Trebinje #1
Costs                               0       2.9        0.7       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1   ----             0      $3.3
Senefits                            0         0         0        2.8       2.8        2.8       2.8       2.8   ----             0    $23.0
Net Benefits                        0       -2.9      -0.7       2.7       2.7        2.7       2.7       2.7   ----             0    $19.7        56%
SCADAIEMS Costs
Investrnent                         0        15        16         15         0         0          0         0    ----            0    $32.9
O&M                                 0         0         0          0       0.8        0.8       0.8        0.8   ----            0      $3.8
Subtotal                            0        15         16        15       0.8        0.8       0.8        0.8   ----            0    $36.7
SCADAIEMS Banefits
Salary savings                      0         0          0         0       0.8        0.8       0.8        0.9   ----            0      $5.1
Reduc. unserved energy              0         0          0         0       6.3        6.3       6.3        6.3   ----            0    $29.9
Spare communications rev.           0         0          0         0      11.2       11.2      11.2       11.2   ----            0    $53.2
Subtotal                            0         0         0          0      18.3       18.3      18.3       18.4   ----            0    $88.1
Net Benefits                        0       -15        -18       -15      17.5       17.5      17.5       17.6   ----            0    $51.5        29%
Total Costs                      51.4     104.5       54.9      29.5       15,3      15.3      18.7       18.7   ----         17.5   $275.6
Total Benefits                      0      50.2       50.2      86.9     163.7      189.5     221.3     235.4   ----         304.9 $1,441.5
Net Benefits                    -51.4      -54.3      -4.7      57.4     148.4      174.2     202.6     216.7   ----         287.4  $1,165.9       61%
Transmission O&M: The O&M costs associated with the incremental output of the transmission system
resulting from the transmission investments under the project were assumed to be 10% of the estimated
total O&M cost for the 400 kV and 220 kV transmission system of US$ 7.5 per kW. The annual O&M is
equal to 2% of the transmission investments under the project.
Benefits of Restoration of the Gacko-Mostar Transmission Line: Three benefits were measured. First
is a reduction in transmission losses of 18 GWh per year, valued at the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of
generation for EPRS estimated at US$ 0.04/kWh by the Fichtner/ESBI electricity tariff study. Second is
an additional 55 GWh of power generation frorn Gacko and 2 GWh from hydropower plants that could be
sent to market. This benefit is valued at the difference between the average LRMC for generation of EPRS
of US$0.04/kWh less the energy cost at Gacko of US$0.03/kWh and a transmission charge of US$
0.7/kW/year. Third is revenue from wheeling 92 MW of power from Gacko to Hrvatska Elektroprivreda
- 58 -



(HEP), which is entitled to this power by virtue of its pre-war investments in the Gacko power plant. The
wheeling charge was assumed to be US$ 20/kW.
Restoration of the Visegrad-Tuzia Transmission Line: Two benefits were measured. First is a
reduction in losses of 33 GWh per year, valued at the LRMC of generation for EPRS of US$ 0.04/kWh.
Second is the benefit of diverting 62 GWh of electricity produced at Visegrad from the export market to the
domestic market, valued at the difference between the LRMC for EPRS of US$ 0.04/ kWh and the export
price of US$ 0.0246/kWh.
Restoration of International Connections: Three benefits were measured. First is a reduction in outages.
In the absence of the interconnections, transmission system outages were assumed to increase by one
outage per year to a maximum of 14, and each outage was assumed to last 6 hours. The benefit was
measured as the reduction in unserved energy valued at US$ 0.25/kWh less the cost of supply of this
electricity calculated as the average electricity export price for BiH of US$ 0.021/kWh (assuming some
exports would be diverted to supply this energy) plus transmission and distribution costs valued at US$
44.81kW/year, with an adjustment for transmission and distribution losses estimated at 14% of net power
generation. The second benefit is revenue from wheeling of electricity owed to Croatia and Slovenia
(excluding the amount already covered as a benefit for restoration of the Gacko-Tuzla line) valued at US$
20/kW/year. The third benefit is revenue from wheeling an estimated 1,400 GWh per year of electricity
with an assumed value of US$ 0.03/kWh from western Croatia to eastern Croatia over 470 km of the
Bosnian transmission system, assuming a wheeling charge of 1.5% of the value of the electricity per 100
km of transmission.
Loss Reduction and Resumption of Pumped Storage at Capljina: Two benefits are included here. The
first is a reduction in transmission losses not already included in the benefits of the Gacko-Tuzla line and
the Visegrad-Tuzla line. The reductions rise from 56 GWH in 2003 to 65 GWh by 2011. They are valued
at the avoided generation cost of US$ 0.04/kWh. Second, the transmission system rehabilitation would
increase the fault levels at Capljina, thus allowing the on-line start of the pumps to pernit the resumption of
pumped storage at that plant. It is assumed that the additional generation would be 225 GWh per year,
which would require an additional 304 GWh of generation. The pumping cost was valued at US$
0.0134/kWh (an energy cost only since the pumping would be done at night) and the additional energy was
valued at US$ 0.04/kWh.
Additional System Sales: Restoration of the 220 KV and 400 KV transmission lines would allow a peak
demand of 2,700 MW to be supplied reliably, compared with a peak of 2,200 MW under existing
conditions. This increase in capacity would make it possible to accommodate forecast additional electricity
generation of 774 GWh in 2003 rising to 2,700 GWh by 2014. This is the same forecast as is used for the
forecast financial statements of EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS, but the figures were adjusted downwards by
the increased generation taken account of in the other transmission benefit estimates described above. The
additional sales corresponding to this generation were valued at the estimated willingness to pay of US$
0. 14/kWh. This estimate was derived by calculating the cost of alternatives to electricity consisting of
kerosene for household consumers and diesel generation for commercial consumers and, in order to be
conservative, taking the average between this price and the actual average price of electricity. The costs of
the additional electricity include the average export price of electricity of US$ 0.021/kWh, transmission
and distribution valued at US$ 50.3fkW per year, and adjustments were made for transmission and
distribution losses of 14%.
- 59 -



Distribution - Other Costs: Other costs relating to distribution benefits consisting of additional sales and
reduction in unserved energy include: the associated cost of generation valued at the export price,
transmission and distribution costs (excluding the distribution investments) and transmission and
distribution losses. Annual distribution O&M was assumed to be 1.5% of the distribution investments.
The estimates of the various costs differ between the three EPs.
Distribution Benefits - Reducing Unserved Energy: It was assumed that in the absence of those
distribution investments made in order to improve supply reliability the corresponding electricity would be
subject to a probability of supply failure of 20% per year from 2003-2007 and 100% thereafter. The
reduction in unserved energy was valued at US$ 0.25/kWh.
Distribution Benefits - Additional Sales:  The additional sales made possible by the distribution
investments were valued at the estimated willingness to pay of US$ 0.14/kWh.
Hydropower Benefits: Benefits of improved availability were estimated for Jablanica 5 and 6 and
Trebinje 1. It was estimated that in the absence of rehabilitation, generator output would decrease by 1.5%
per year for five years after which the units would be incapable of producing any output. The value of
capacity was estimated to be US$ 133.6/kW/year at Jablanica and US$ 110.2/kW/year at Trebinje. The
benefits were measured as the avoided reduction in available capacity. A cost-benefit analysis was not
carried out for the safety investments at Rama, Jablanica and Trebinje because of the difficulty of
estimating the reduction in probability of dam failure attributable to the investments and the value of
damages resulting from a dam failure.
Hydropower Costs: The hydropower costs include the investments for availability increase and annual
operation and maintenance costs equal to 2% of the investments.
SCADA/EMS O&M: O&M costs are assumed to be 2% of the total investment.
SCADAJEMS Benefits - Salary Savings: The salary savings are due to an estimated reduction of 42
persons at hydropower plants and substations, and 42 persons in record keeping staff, having an average
salary of DM 14,800 per year.
SCADA/EMS Benefits - Reduction in Unserved Energy: The reduction in unserved energy was
assumed to be 0.25% of gross electricity consumption of 10,000 GWh, valued at a cost of US$ 0.25/kWh.
SCADA/EMS Benefits - Spare Communications Revenue:  The revenue from  sale of spare
communications capacity was estimated on the basis of installation of 1,052 km of fiber cable, each cable
having 16 spare fibers, that would be sold for US$ 1,200/fiber/mile/year.
- 60 -



BOSNIA AND HEFRZEGOVINA
THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELECTRICITY DEMAND AND SUPPLY
(GWh)
-. - - f,_,;:. < ...... - : .:......Forecast
201    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008
EPBiH Demand                         %     s'    ,.6Ei   6 ,w   6A,  i--':7T
Distribution demand                                                ~~~~~~~~~~3,0C4   3,154    3,311    3,444    3,582    3,689    3,800    3,914
Distribution losses                  ^      k       S    l    S        S3410                         390      368      341      354     365      376      387
Energy to meet distribution demand                                  ,.         r          3,413    3,544    3,679    3,784    3.936    4,054    4,176   4,301
Direct demand                                                        i(ia~~~~~~~~~~~t6  176  185  192    20C0    206      212      219
Oiretexprt demanrJ d;t    ,                         W                6M          M        1611   1,716    1,821    1,967   2 074   2,180    2,185   2,191
Transmission losses                'e'4%  l 6'                                ;             1 0      157      164      171      179      186      189      193
Total electricity demand                                            *---A-,,,4' sesesiwgayS!  . i !  i ................... i ik 5,3'.1   5,592   5,849   6.115    6,389   6,625    6,762   6,904
Tuzta thermaltpower plant                                4                                   6     2,247   2,385   2,526   2,672    2,823    2,953    3,028   2,106
Kakanjthermal power plant          .                                                      1,838    1,951    2.067    2,187    2310    2,416   2,478   2,542
Jablanica hydropower plant                                         600    ~~~~~~~600  800     600      600     600      600      600
Grabovica hydropoJwer plant                                                                 2-0  j    g    l                   6t)250  250  250  250  250  250  250
Satakovac hydropower plant                                                                  350      350      350      350      35(0     350      350      350
Small hydros                                                           5~~~~~~~~~~~~  6  56  56    56       56       56       56       56
Net purchases within BiH            .                                                         '       56      30       30       3;        5        5        5
Total electricity supply                                           ~~~~~~~~5,34 1    5,592    5,849   6,115    6,389    6.625    6,762   E'r904
Distributione dstribuboemand          d       28i10                                                  914      960    1,008    1,058    1,111    1,166   -.225
*D*str    __ution  losses                                                                2,0       214       183      137      144     151      159      167
Energy tpomeet distribution demand                                               1; 1,131    1,128    1,142    1.145    1,202   1,262    1,326            692
Direct deman*d       ndem1,89    1,679 12679    1,679    1 679  12679  1R679    1 679
Transmission losses                                                                           40      40       41       42       43       44       46       47
Total electricity demand             ' .;                                                 2,850   2,847   2 862    2,866    2,924    2,985   3,051   3,118
EPHZH   Supply  1,71,71,71271271,7121121
Trebmaehydropower plant1                                     h                               t0628   628      628      628      628      628     628      628
Mostar hydropower plant                                             ~~~~~~~~~218  218  218      218      218      2118    218      218
Capserad hydropower plant             .        g                      _                     159      159      159      159      159      159      159      159
Joca)c   hydropower plant           O               wp233                                            233      233      233      233      233      233      233
Jmajce 2hydropower plant             r  M-<t't2Ft>-162                                               162      162      162      162      1627        162   162
Net imports                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,480    1,447    1,462    1,466    1,524    1,585    1,651    1,718
Total electricity supply              2+'"S 'S  pf'- '' ,,-t S                    1;    5,(2880   2,847   2,862    2,866    2,924    2,985   3,051    3,118
EPRS~ri Demand                                                   g    s   lv
Distribution demand                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~2,347   2.523    2,649    2,781    2,920    3,066    3,220    3,381
Distribution losses                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~662  592  505    379      398      4113    439      461
Energyotal     meetBi istributionHdemand3 DC9    3,114    3,153    3,161    3.319    3,485    3.659    3,842
Net Exporls                        -  >.             S         .t-~  tX                   2,1)870    1,777    1,751    1,743    1.585    1,411    1,245    1,062
Transmission losses                                                                         125      113      100      100      100      1 03     100      100
Total electricity demand                                                                   5,C04   5 004    5,004    5,004    53004    5,004   5,004   5,004
EPRS Suppyl
Ug1tevik thernal poWer plant 109                                                             '71 19Y7
Gacko thermal power plant         ~         n                                              1,102    1,102    1,102    1,102    1 102    1,102    1,102    1,102
Trebinje hydropower plancl                                                                  584      584      584      584      584      584      584      584
Visegrad hydropower plant                                                                 1,085    1.085    1,085    1.085    1.085    1,085    1,085    1,085
tDubrovni hydropower plant                                                                   77      577      577      577      57r77             577      577
Bocac hydropower plant                                                                       126     328      328      328      328      :328     328      328
Small hydros                                                                                 57       5         7       5         7       5         7       5
Total electricity supply                                      4t',S.   51004    5 004   5,004    5,004    5,004    5,004   5 004    5.004
Total Bin Demand           Ln    a                                                        9 44    9.951   10,144   10.275   10,658   11,015   11,386  '1,772
Net Exports                                                             '.                21~)01    2,045    2,109    2,244    2 135    2,014    1,780    1 536
Total Electricity Supply                                                   fir~ ~$ ~ ~   t$l  1 1,745  11,996   12.253   12,519  1 2,793   13,029  13.16P,   3,30-8
Sources Actual Data from EPBiIH EPM and EPIR2 tDA Iorncastn-
1/ Includes Dubrovnik for 1990, 1996 and 1937
Financial Analysis
The financial rate of return estilmates, except tir tile enviroinnental investments at thermal power plants and
the SCADAIEMS, were prepared by Agra MonLcOit Inc. and givern in full detail in "Electric Power IIl
Reconistruction, Bosnia and [Icr:'eg~ovina, Final Report., Janluary, 2000. Section 8, and updated to April
2001. The assumptions fior these estimates as well a.s tor the SCADA system are summarized below.
- 61 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECT ANALYSIS
(US$ million)
NPV       FIRR
2001      2002       2003       2004      2005       2006      2007       2008                 2028 (at 15%)
Transmission Costs
Investment                         0      68.4       25.6          0         0          0         0          0    ----            0    $68.6
O&M                                0         0          0          2         2        2.1        2.2       2.2   ----            4.7    $10.4
Subtotal                           0      68.4       25.6          2         2        2.1        2.2       2.2   ----            4.7    $78.9
Transmission Benefits
Gacko-Mostar                       0         0          0        1.6        3.7       3.8        3.9         4    ----           0.8    $16.8
Visegrad-Tuzla                     0         0          0        4.2        4.3       4.5        4.6       4.8   ----            10    $22.1
Internat. Connections              0         0          0          5        8.7      13.1       13.7      14.3   ----           13.6    $56.0
Loss reduc. & Capljina             0         0          0        7.8        8.1       8.4        8.8       9.1    ----          19.6    $42.5
Additional Sales                   0         0          0          0       12.3      17.7       18.5      22.2   ----         102.2   $131.9
Subtotal                           0         0          0       18.6      37.1       47.5       49.5      54.4   ----         146.2   $269.3
Net Benefits                       0      -68.4     -25.6       16.6      35.1       45.4       47.3      52.2   ----         141.5   $190.4         36%
Distribution Costs
Investment                      44.9         0          0          0         0          0         0          0    ----            0    $39.0
Other                              0       13.2      13.6       14.1       14.6      15.2       20.4      21.2                 51.7   $113.5
Subtotal                        44.9       13.2      13.6       14.1       14.6      15.2       20.4      21.2    ---           51.7   $152.5
Distribution Benefits
Reduc. Unserved energy             0        1.5       1.6        1.6        1.7       2.8        9.8      10.2   ----            27     $41.5
Additional sales                   0       19.3        20       20.6       21.5      22.2       23.1      23.9   ----           56.3   $141.1
Subtotal                           0      20.8       21.6       22.2      23.2         25       32.9      34.1    ----         83.3   $182.5
Net Benefits                   -44.9        7.6         8        8.1        8.6       9.8       12.5      12.9   ----          31.6    $30.0        24%
Hydro - Jablanica #5
Costs                            5.8        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1   ----             0      $5.6
Benefits                           0         0          0        3.5        3.5       3.5        3.6       3.6   ----             0    $15.1
Net Benefits                    -5.8       -0.1      -0.1        3.4        3.4       3.4        3.5       3.5   ----             0      $9.5        33%
Hydro - Jablanica #6
Costs                              0        7.8         2        0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2       0.2   ----             0      $8.0
Benefits                           0         0          0        3.5        3.5       3.5        3.5       3.6   ----             0    $15.1
Net Benefits                       0       -7.8        -2        3.3        3.3       3.3        3.3       3.4   ----             0      $7.0        28%
Hydro - Trebinje #1
Costs                              0        2.9       0.8        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1    ----            0      $3.1
Benefits                           0         0          0        3.1        3.2       3.3        3.4       3.5   ----             0    $24.1
Net Benefits                       0       -2.9      -0.8          3        3.1       3.2        3.3       3.4   ----             0    $21.0         62%
SCADAIEMS Costs
Investment                         0      13.5       17.9       12.8         0          0         0          0    ----            0    $29.3
O&M                                0         0          0          0        0.9         1         1          1    ----            0      $3.9
Subtotal                           0       13.5      17.9       12.8        0.9         1          1         1    ----            0    $33.2
SCADAIEMS Benefits
Salary savings                     0         0          0          0        0.9         1        1.1       1.2   ----             0      $5.4
Reduc. Unserved energy             0         0          0          0        1.6       1.7        1.7       1.8   ----             0      $6.9
Spare communications rev.          0         0          0          0      14.6       15.1       15.5        16    ----            0    $62.1
Subtotal                           0         0          0          0      17.1       17.8       18.3        19    ----            0    $74.4
Net Benefits                       0      -13.5     -17.9      -12.8      16.2       16.8       17.3        18    ----            0    $41.1        31%
Total Costs                     50.7     105.9         60       29.3       17.9      18.7        24       24.8   ----           56.4   $281.5
Total Benefits                     0      20.8       21.6       50.9      87.6      100.6     111.2      118.2   ----         229.5   $580.5
Net Benefits                   -50.7     -85.1      -38.4       21.6      69.7       81.9      87.2       93.4   ----         173.1   $299.0        32%
Cost Escalation: The financial analysis was carried out in nominal terms. All costs were converted to US
dollars at the average year 2000 exchange rate of US$ 1.00 = KM 2.10. Exchange rate fluctuations were
not taken into account since forecasts indicate that these would be small. For local costs, a 1% per annum
increase in prices was used for the Federation and 6% for RS. For foreign costs the inflation rate used
were 2.4% per year.
Net Present Value Calculations: All discounting was done to January 1, 2000. A nominal discount rate
of 15% was used (12 percentage points for the real opportunity cost of capital and 3 points for inflation).
Investment costs: The estimates are in US dollars. They exclude import duties on the understanding that
these will be waived for the project. They include local taxes of 12%. Shadow prices were not used. The
estimates include physical contingencies of: 5% for transmission and hydro investments, and 10% for
distribution investments and the SCADA system.
- 62 -



Transmission O&M: The O&M costs associated with the incremental output of the transmission system
resulting from the transmission investments under the project were assumed to be 10% of the estimated
total O&M cost for the 400 kV and 220 kV transmission system of US$ 7.5 per kW. The annual O&M is
equal to 2% of the transmission investments under the project in real terms.
Benefits of Restoration of the Gacko-Mostar Transmission Line: Three benefits were measured. First
is a reduction in transmission losses of 18 GWh per year, valued at the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of
generation for EPRS estimated at US$ 0.04/kWh by the Fichtner/ESBI electricity tariff study. Second is
an additional 55 GWh of power generation from Gacko and 2 GWh from hydropower plants that could be
sent to market. This benefit is valued at the difference between the average LRMC for generation of EPRS
of US$0.04/kWh less the energy cost at Gacko of US$ 0.03/kWh and a transmission charge of US$
0.7/kW/year. Third is revenue from wheeling 92 MW of power from Gacko to Hrvatska Elektroprivreda
(HEP), which is entitled to this power by virtue of its pre-war investments in the Gacko power plant. The
wheeling charge was assumed to be US$ 20/kW. The dollar amounts mentioned here were adjusted for
local inflation.
Restoration of the Visegrad-Tuzla Transmission Line: Two benefits were measured. First is a
reduction in losses of 33 GWh per year, valued at the LRMC of generation for EPRS of US$ 0.04/kWh.
Second is the benefit of diverting 62 GWh of electricity produced at Visegrad from the export market to the
domestic market, valued at the difference between the LRMC for EPRS of US$ 0.04/ kWh and the export
price of US$ 0.021/kWh. The dollar amounts were adjusted for local inflation, except the export price,
which was adjusted for foreign inflation.
Restoration of International Connections: Three benefits were measured. First is a reduction in outages.
In the absence of the interconnections transmission system outages were assumed to increase by one outage
per year to a maximum of 14, and each outage was assumed to last 6 hours. The benefit was measured as
the reduction in unserved energy valued at the average actual electricity price of US$ 0.056/kWh less the
cost of supply of this electricity calculated as the average electricity export price for BiH of US$
0.021/kWh (assuming some exports would be diverted to supply this energy) plus transmission and
distribution costs valued at US$ 45/kW/year, with an adjustment for transmission and distribution losses
estimated at 14% of net power generation. The second benefit is revenue from wheeling of electricity owed
to Croatia and Slovenia (excluding the amount already covered as a benefit for restoration of the
Gacko-Tuzla line) valued at US$ 20/kW/year. The third benefit is revenue from wheeling an estimated
1,400 GWh per year of electricity with an assumed value of US$ 0.03/kWh from western Croatia to
eastern Croatia over 470 km of the Bosnian transmission system, assuming a wheeling charge of 1.5% of
the value of the electricity per 100 km of transmission. The dollar estimates were adjusted for local
inflation, except for the export price, which was adjusted for foreign inflation.
Loss Reduction and Resumption of Pumped Storage at Capljina: Two benefits are included here. The
first is a reduction in transmission losses not already included in the benefits of the Gacko-Tuzla line and
the Visegrad-Tuzla line. The reductions rise from 54 GWH in 2004 to 65 GWh by 2012. They are valued
at the avoided generation cost of US$0.04/kWh. Second, the transmission system rehabilitation would
increase the fault levels at Capljina, thus allowing the on-line start of the pumps to permit the resumption of
pumped storage at that plant. It is assumed that the additional generation would be 225 GWh per year,
which would require an additional 290 GWh of generation. The pumping cost was valued at US$
0.0134/kWh (an energy cost only since the pumping would be done at night) and the additional electricity
was valued at US$ 0.04/kWh. The dollar estimates were adjusted for local inflation.
- 63 -



Additional System Sales: Restoration of the 220 KV and 400 KV transmission lines would allow a peak
demand of 2,700 MW to be supplied reliably, compared with a peak of 2,155 MW under existing
conditions. This increase in capacity would rmake it possible to accommnodate forecast additional electricity
generation of 774 GWh in 2004 rising to 2,700 GWh by 2011. This is the same forecast as is used for the
forecast financial statements of EPBiH, EPI-ZHB and EPRS, but the figures were adjusted downwards by
the increased generation taken account of in the other transmission benefit estimates described above. The
additional sales corresponding to this generation were valued at the actual average electricity price of US5
0.056/kWh.. The costs of the additional electricity include the average export price of electricity of
US$0.021/kWh, transmission and distribution valued at US$ 0.04481kW per year, and adjustments were
made for transmission and distribution losses of 14%. The dollar estimates were adjusted for local
inflation, except the export price, which was adjusted for foreign inflation.
Distribution - Other Costs: Other costs relating to distribution benefits consisting of additional sales and
reduction in unserved energy include: the associated cost of generation valued at the export price,
transmission and distribution costs (excluding the distribution investments) and transmission and
distribution losses. Annual distribution O&M was assumed to be 1.5% of the distribution investrnent. The
actual estimates differ between the three EPs.
Distribution Benefits - Reducing Unserved Energy: It was assumed that in the absence of those
distribution investments made in order to improve supply reliability the corresponding electricity would be
subject to a probability of supply failure of 20% per year from 2003-2007 and 100% thereafter. The
reduction in unserved energy was valued at the existing electricity prices of the three EPs. The dollar
estimates were adjusted for local inflation.
Distribution Benefits - Additional Sales: The additional sales made possible by the distribution
investments were valued at the existing electricity prices of the three EPs. The dollar estimates were
adjusted for local inflation.
Hydropower Benefits: Benefits of improved availability were estimated for Jablanica 5 and 6 and
Trebinje 1. It was estimated that in the absence of rehabilitation, generator output would decrease by 1.5%
per year for five years after which the units would be incapable of producing. The value of capacity was
estimated to be US$ 133.6/kW/year for Jablanica and US$ 110.2/kW/year for Trebinje. The benefits were
measured as the avoided reduction in available capacity. A cost-benefit analysis was not carried out for
the safety investments at Rama, Jablanica and Trebinje because of the difficulty of estimating the reduction
in probability of dam failure attributable to the investments and the value of damages resulting from a dam
failure. The dollar estimates were increased by local inflation.
Hydropower Costs: The hydropower costs include the investments for availability increase and annual
operation and maintenance costs equal to 2% of the investments.
SCADA System O&M: O&M costs are assumed to be 2% of the total investment in real terms. They are
escalated by 3% per year for local inflation (the average of Federation and RS inflation).
SCADA System Benefits - Salary Savings: The salary savings are due to an estimated reduction of 42
persons at hydropower plants and substations, and 42 persons in record keeping staff, having an average
salary of DM 14,800 per year in 1999. The salaries are escalated by local inflation.
SCADA System Benefits - Reduction in Unserved Energy: The reduction in unserved energy was
- 64 -



assumed to be 0.25% of gross electricity consumption of 10,000 GWh, valued at a the average tariff rate of
US$ 0.056/kWh. The estimate is escalated by local inflation.
SCADA System Benefits - Spare Communications Revenue: The revenue from sale of spare
communications capacity was estimated on the basis of installation of 1,052 km of fiber cable, each cable
having 16 spare fibers, that would be sold for US$ 1,200/fiber/mile/year. The estimate is escalated by
local inflation.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Estimates were made of switching values for both the economic analysis and the financial analysis. The
switching values are those values of the selected critical items which cause the internal rate of return to be
equal to the opportunity cost of capital (12% for the economic analysis and 15% for the financial analysis).
The critical items and corresponding switching values for the economic analysis are:
1.    Project cost:                       US$ 1,850 million (670% increase).
2.     Delay between investment and output:  27 years.
Elimination of the increased sales benefit would not reduce the intemal rate of return to 12%.
The critical items and corresponding switching values for the financial analysis are:
1.    Project cost:                       US$ 640 million (160% increase).
2.     Delay between investment and output:  9 years.
Elimination of the increased sales benefit would not reduce the intemal rate of return to 15%.
- 65 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
Actual and forecast financial statements for EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS are shown in the following pages.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Elektropnvreda of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Actual and Forecast Income Statements For Years Ending December 31
(KM thousands)
Version date:
10-May-01
fInteret in post-rdeb             5,482001   2002     2003  200          4      200 5      2006  2007
DontestcElectricityo p les (GWh)                                                    4,171       ,20      3,94      3,6       3,783       3,894     42071
Average Domnesbc Electricity Price (KM/kWh)                                         0.1215    0.1252    0.1289    0.1328    0.1368      0.1409      0,1451
Average Export Price (KMefWe) T                                                     0.05(63    0(0526    0.0539    0.0552    0,0566      0.0540     0,0595
Foperaign Mnargin (%)                                                                -13%       215%      -25%      211%       -85%       2-6%        24%
Doe_ Inlto  _%)                                                                    3.0%      3.0%M     3.20%     3.20%      3.0%       3.0%/       3.0%
Electricity SalesFtevenue                                                         467,965   506,96.7  5483a55   591,465   64,630    675,173    712072
Other Revenue                                                                        7,009     7,219     7,436     7,659     7,889       8,126       8,369
Oexraorinar Expenses
Coal (including transportabrnrost)               5ig 195,450   213,752   233,282   256,520   279,115    300,707    317,632
Salaries and Wages                                g       g84,478    87,012    89,622    9231s41 95,80                                  97,933    100871
NeMaIenanome ad ar Pan   re E48, 6944 804,)02    93,834 (01,35)   ( 180,531                                                            (3154       (,26
Worting T axio (r/6)                                                                  7 3;       71%       7&6       70% 30% 300%                      0%
Net Ope rabngIncSomneBeforeFna      s                                              140(38521   15696)4  (19763)0  (t5080)4   32059     2168463    230 150
Depreciatincm an Fiaca Cot
Operabng Margin (%)                                                                   27%(86B    (44804   (930       301%      30%         30%        30/
Net Oeain g Inoome TxBeforeFneancdinalCotes                                        (38,768)  (26,280)  (19,7839)  (50,37)   (740,36)    (1,47)   (Z,2664
Adjusted Net Pnrfit                                    i B   T                     (48,688)  (44,804)  (49,839)  (50,375)  (40,531)    (31,547)   (22,262)
- 66  -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Elektroprivreda of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds For Years Ending Decernber 31
(KM thousand)
_  7___L2_                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Forecast
~~~~~~2001              2002      2003      2004       200   i   2006       2007
SOURCES
Intemal Sources
Net Operating Income Before Financial Costs                        3            (38 756)  (26,298)  (19,763)  (15,080)   (7,036)      148       7,664
Depreciation                                                                   179,277   186,042   196,664   205,203   211632    216,846    222,486
Other Adjustments
Total Internal Sources                                                           140,521   159744   176.902   190,124   204,597    216,993    230.150
External Sources
Grants                                                                             150     2,067     2,133         -         -      1
Borrowings                                                                      65,000   190,848   150,642    10,000    10,000      10.000     10,000
Total Extemal Sources                                                            65150   192.915   152,775    10.000    10.000       10,000     10,000
TOTAL SOURCES                                                                   205 671   352.659   329,677   200,124   214,517    22609,3    240.150
APPUCATIONS
Capital Investment Requirements                                                 202,939   318.676   256,169   192,871   156.400    169.200    163,800
Total Capital Investment Requirements                      ,                  . 202,939   318.676   256,169   192,871   156,400    169.200    163.500
Import Duty on Equipment for Investment Projects                  i
Profit Tax                                                                                __--                         _
Total Tax and Duties
Debt Service Post-War Debt
Interest                                                                          5,461    14,298    26.132    31.613    30,134     28.653     27,195
Pincipal                                                                          4 873     8,798     9,433     8,328    38,097     38,128      37,432
Total Post-War Debt Service                                                      10,334    23,096    35,565    39,941    68,231      63.782     64,627
Debt Service Pre-War Debt
Interest                                                                          4 471     4,208     3,945     3,682     3,362      3,041      2,731
Pnncipal                                                                          1,729     6,034     6,034     6,034     7,946      7,946    7,79i
Total Pre-War Debt Service                                                        6200    10,242      9,979     9,716    11.308      10,968     10.522
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital                                           (12,329)  (10,669)   (7,598)   (6,120)  (38.635)    (6,686)    (5,067)
TOTAL APPUCATIONS                                                               267 144   341,34    294,114   236,408   197,304    240,284    233.861
Sw&gtps Funfs                                                                     (1,473)   11,.13    35,%S3  r^    )   17.29t   (8329i)  6
Op.rdrn Coset 8etatrou                                                            46235    44,762   5#O076    01.69    56.3m4        7247        *367
C)Oelng Ct1n                                                                      44 762    56,076    91,639    M5ae      72.4t7     50s397      MOO
Self-Financing Ratio                                                                 6 vt  61%  53%     54%       73%       95%         89%        96%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                 -        -.2S*         8 50      4.79      3.88      3.83      2.57        2.79       3.06
- 67



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Elektroprivreda of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheet For Years Ending December 31
(KM thousand)
\ W  W  "  ;  E    X                        ~~~~~~~Fomcast
. g  i | g  i g    E  ~~~2001    2002      2003      2004     2005       2D06       2007
Fixed Assets                                  
Gross Fixed Assets                                                              8,388,980 8,591,919 8,910.595 9,166,764 9,359,635  9,516,035  9,685,235
Less: Accumulated Deprecation                                               5,336,622 5,522,664 5,719,328 5,924,531 6,136,164  6,353,009  6,575,495
Net Fixed Assets                                                           3,052,358 3,069,255 3,191,267 3,242,233 3223,471   3,163,026   3,1098740
Otwe Non-Curfent Assets                                                         5,8568    5,858    5,858     5,858     5,858      5,858      5,856
Work-ln-Progress                                                              202,93    318676   256,169   192,871       156,400    169,2D0    163,800
Total Fixed Assets                                                          3,261,155 3,393,789 3,453,294 3,440,962 3,385,729  3,338,084  3,279,398
Current Assets
cash                                                                          44,763    58,076    91,639    55,355    72,648    59,357     65,646
Gross Accounts ReceNvable                                                    i50,393   155,463   155,483   155,463   155,463    155,48.3    155,463
Less: A_ umuated Provisio  For Doubtful Revenue                               73,324    77,971    81,845    85,526    89,023    92,345     95,501
Net ArrDurts Recewable                                                        77,069    T7,492    73,818    69,937    66,440    63,118     59,962
Inventories                                                                   113,062   113,962   113,962   113,962   113,962    113,962    113,962
Other Current Assets                                                           31,719    31,719    31,719    31,719    31,719    31,719     31,719
Total Current Assets                                                         267,513   279,249   310,938   270,972   284,768    268,156    271,289
TOTAL ASSETS                                                                 3,528,668 3,673,038 3,764,231 3,711,934 3,670,498  3,606,239  3,550,687
EQUMtES AND LIABILrTIES
EQUIrY
State Capital                                                               4,223,240 4,223,240 4,223,240 4223,240 4,223,240  4,223,240  4,223,240
Legal and Statutory Reserves                                                   14,588    14,588    14,588    14,588    14,588    14,588     14,588
Revakiaton Reserve                                                          (672,036) (672,036) (672,038) (672,036) (672,036)  (672,036)  (672,036)
Retained Eamings/Losses                                                      (475,275) (520,079) (569,918) (620,293) (660,824)  (692,372)  (714,633)
Total Equity                                                                3,090,517 3,045,713 2,995,874 2,945,499 2,904,968  2,873,420  2,851,159
Donation                                                                      148,660   150,747   152,880   152,880   152,880    152,880    152,860
Long-Term Debt                                                                 234,176   418,422   554,232   548,765   544,403    508,360    472,285
Less Current PorAion (post-war debt)                                            4,873   8,798      9,433     8,328    38,097     38,128     37,432
Less Current Portion (pre-war debt)                                            1,729     6.034     6,034    6,034     7,946      7,946      7,791
Net Long-Tern Debt                                                             227,574   403,590   536,765   534,403   496,360    462,285    427,063
Accounts Payables                                                              34,333    37,195    40,2833   43,828    47284     50,617     53,401
Current Pourion ot Longp-Term Debt                                  ..         6,602    14,632    15,467    14,362    46,044    48,075     45.223
Other Current LUabitties                                                       20,962    20,962    20,962    20,962    26,962    20,962     20,962
Total Current Liabilities                                                     61,897    72,988    76,712    79,152   114290    117,654    119,585
TOTAL EQUMnES AND LUABLMIES                                                  3,528,666 3,673,038 3,764,231 3,711,934 3,670,498   3,606,239   3,550,687
kw*  Aecwn MISe% (over axrerr yewrs WiP,ings)                        ,        W062%    999      100.0%    10040%    1000%     1*00%      100,0%
- 68 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Elektropriveda Hrvatske Zajedrsc,e Herceg-Bosne (EPHZHB)
Actual and Forerast Income Statements For Years Ending December 31
(KM thousands)
Version date:
10-May-01
E  v ; '      '                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Forecast
- 48,1               46280i   2  002  2003  2004          2005 2006    2007
DistObutionE icitycSales GWh)                        - F   Cts  .                     12870       914      9,04      1,0508   1,8         2 ,111   1,166
Derine Elecricity Sales (GWh)                                                             5       85        84%       91%       90%        835       835
Average Distnrbubon Eecrbicity Price (KM7KWh)                                          6 1227    071234    0.1302    0.1341 0.1382    0.1423    0.1467
Average Direct Electnricty Price (KMJKW\h)                                             0 0511    0 0524    0.0537    0.0551    0.0564    0.0579    0.0593
Noetg Operaton agn (%)                                                        2% 5%               -35%     -25%       21%       3.%       25%       28%
DrontTti ( )                                                                           30        30%       3.0%       3.0%      3.-0      3.0%      360%
Revenue frorn Serlvie and other incorne                                                ,, 1575  1,654      1,736     1,823    193130    20S,39    220111
Tota Revenue                                                                        151,119   160,973   171,568   182,961   195,217   208,404   222,597
peradng Expense (
Aurasted net ProfitparePat                                                            6,714     7,397      8,353     9,359    5,937    11,18      15,096
Pmvision for doubtffu receivatJf s                                                   2,960     1,577       560      2,531     2,531     2,531     2,531
Other Operating Expenses                           ,,_28,456    29,309    30.189    31,094    32,027    32,988    33,978
Total Operating Expenses                                                        10166    104,227   107,624   110,857   117,694   124,965   132,700
Workirng Ratio ()                                                     ,67%                        65%       63%       61%       60%        60%       60%
Ctiange in Operatng Expense (%)                                                            2 1 J4  2 5%   3.3%       3.0%      62%       6.2%   8 .2%
Net Operabing Income Before                                                           49.451    56,746    63,943    72,104    77,523    83,439    B9,897
Operain Margin l%)                                                  _                   33%       35%       37%       39%       40%        40%       40%
Depreciation                                  1                                      483171    49.680    52,896    56,054    57,629    59,204    60,779
Net Opegratinglnoorre Beore Financial Costs         ffll,          .          *       1,290     7,066    11,047    16.050    19,894    24,235    29,118
Operatig F'atio (%)                                                                     99% t , gg/  960a   94%       91%       90%        88%       87%
Interest onpre-war debt                                                            7 f   " 7625  7,313  7,001     6,689     6,352     6,014      5,677
Finanaal Incorne                                               ,        i ii                      -         -         _         _         _          _
Net OperatbnglIncoffe BeforeTax                                                      (8.016)   (4,839)   (3,275)    1.186      5,937  11,18 18,663
Net Operabin MargBin(%)                               '                                 -S%       -3%        -2%       1%         3%        5%   8%/
Profit Tax (30%)                                                             .  t6                                       -         -               3.644
Extraordlinary Incorrle (Expense)                         .                 
Adjusted NetPrmiit                                      .     '    ,          199     (8,016)   (4,839)   (3,275)    1,186     5,937    11,185    15,019
-69 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Elektroprivreda Hrvatske Zajednice Herceg-Bosne (EPHZHB)
Actual and Forecast Sources aiid Applications of Funds for Years ending December 31
(KM thousand)
1   1  l  E   I                     ~~~~~~~~~Forecast
. | t ~~~~~2001           2002      2003      2D04     2005      2006      2007
Net Operating Income Before Financial Costs                                      1,280     7,066    11,047    16,050    19,1894    24,235    29,118
Depreciafion                                             .48,171    49,680    52,B96    56,054    57,629    59,204    60,779
Extraordinary expense
Total Intemal Sources                                                            49,451    56,746    63,943    72,104    77,523    83,439    89,897
External Sources
Grants                                                                             600     4,733     5.667        -         -         -
Borrowings                                                                    __15,000    48,602    47,190
Total Extemal Sources                                                            15,600    53,335    52,857
TOTAL SOURCES                                                                    65,051   110,081   116,800    72,i04    77,523    83,439    89,897
APPLICATIONS
Capital Investment Requirements                                                  45,273    96.484    94,731    47,250    47,250    47.250    47,250
Total Capital Investment Requirements                                            45.273    96.484    94,731    47,250    47,250    47,250    47,250
Taxes
Profit Tax                                                                                     -                  -         -         -    3,644
Total Tax and Duties                                                                -         -                                      -       3.644
Debt Service
Interest                                                                          9.296    11,904    14,322    14,864    13,957    13,051    10,454
Principal                                                                             -      930     6,025     8,191    14,259    14,259    12,093
Total Debt Service                                                                9,296    12,835    20,347    23,055    28,216    27,310    22,547
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital                                            4,630     1,839     (373)   (2,476)   (2,473)   (2,287)   (3,302J
TOTAL APPUCATtONS                                                                59,199   111,158   114,705    67,8291   72,993    72,273    70,139
_vpk Fud                                                                          5 5852    (1 fJ77    2.005   4,275   4*53$W     11,:66  19,753
CongC atiSh Babnce                                                                19.t771    18,094    20,189     2444655   21139t   :40,t61    59,919
Self Financing Ratio                                             49%      76%       54%       53%       55%       82%     110%      124%      1425c
Debt Servire Coverage Ratio                                    (20.4)    26.9       5.3       4.4      3.1       3.1       2.7       3.1       4 0
- 70 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Elektropuivreda Hrvatske Zajednice Herceg-Bosne (EPHZHB)
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheet for years ending December 31
(KM thousand)
5  l  ll l l  ,                            ~~~~~~~~Forecast
.  0  S e i    8E   ~~~~2001     2002      2003      2004     2005      2006      2D07
GrossFixed Assets                                                             1,598,514 1,643,787 1,740,271 1,835,003 1,882,253 1,929,503 1,976,753
Less: Accumulated Depreaation                                                   832,627   882,307   935,204   991,258 1,048,887 1,108,091 1,188,870
Net Fixed Assets                                                               765,888   761,480   805,068   843,745   833,366   821,412   807,883
Work-in-Progress                                                                 45,273    96,484    94,731    47,250    47,250    47,250    47.250
Total Fixed Assets                                                              811,160   857,964   899,799   890,995   880,616   868,862   855,133
Long-Teffe Investments and Intangible Assets                                       1,265     1,265     1,265    1,265     1,265     1,265    1,265
Current Assets
Cashr                                                                           19,171    18,094    20,189    24,464    28,994    40,161    59,918
Gross Acmunts Recewvable                                                       246,602   251,382   253,080   253,080   253,080   253,080   253,080
Less Accujmulated Provisio For Doubtful Receivable                             173,058   174,635   175,195   177,726   180,257   182,787   165,318
Net Accounts Receivables                                                        73,544    76,747    77,885    75,354    72,823    70,293    67.762
Inventories                                                                      21,122    21,122    21,122    21,122    21,122    21,122    21.122
Other Current Assets                                                              5,451     5,451    5A51      5,451    5,451      5,451    5,451
Total Cuent Assets                                                             119,288   121,414   124,647   126,392   128,391   137,026   154,253
TOTAL ASSS                                                                       931.713   980,643 1,025,711  1,018,651  1,010,272 1,006,953 1,010,651
EQ=UES AND LiABILrIES
EQUITY
State Capital                                                                   269,93    269,936   269,936   269,936   269,936   269,936  269,936
Legal and Statutory Reserves                                                                                        
Revaluation Reserve                                                             397,720   397,720   397,720   397,720   397,720   397,720   397,720
Retained EamingsfLosses                                                         (25.746)  (30,585)  (33,860)  (32,674)  (26,737)  (15,553)    (533)
Total Equity                                                                   641,910   637,071   633,796   634,982   640,919   652,103   667,123
Deferred Reverue (donations)                                                      49,801    54,5-34    60,201    80,201    60,201    80,201    80,201
LIABILMES
Long-Term Debt                                                                   208,392   256,063   297,229   289,038   274,778   260,519   248,427
Less Current Portion                                                               930     6,025     8,191    14,259    14,259    12,093        -
Net Long-Term Debt                                                               207481   250,039   289,038   274.778   260,519   248,427   248,427
Accounts Payable                                                                  180279    13,879    14567     15632    138625    124359    112031
ASual~esTax1 12,7146    126,947    13294  102,917    151217   106,149 722,9
Current corlecon oatf Log-ermorDebt yQr  rr8%                                      941%    96,025    89191    14025%    14,259    1209.0    t00
Othe Curen Libilfies6,62                                                  6622      6,62      6,22      ,62      6,221,62



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOGtVNA
Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska (EPRS)
Artual and Forecast Income Statemnents for Years Ending December 31
(KM thousands)
Version date:
10-May-01
0 g 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Forr.cast
a |  |  | |  | |     g~~~~~2001      2002       2003       2004       2005       2006       2007
Doanesic Elecbiriny Sales (GWh)                                                      2,347     2.523      2.649      2.541      2.46%      3.44%      3,223
AewaedaDomsRatd EWincMCty                            141P, (KM3512                           16,011    188,082    212,689    229,133239    5093420    563,
Waintenarc          a                                                                32.5%      2          23%  4%    4,4%       4,5%       24%        24,%
Diredation                                                 _                    215,650    219,373    225,527    231,660        236,935    242210    247,485
t  eatina   nse  c i alsCoss                                                       (74,499    (52,362)   (372959)   (108,71)    (7,81)       72        19.1
Woraing Rato (%)                                                                     11%         611%      10598%    510%       102%         5%         53%
Intres on Oposr.we dxebts 1%                                                         892,5 ,723 .9        .2        9,339      8,585      7,872      7,271
Not iOperesgtnmi So
TD  t p lre stbadFnaca  ot                                                      84135        3,6 47,7118268    2269,        29,339 8586  7,0872    76,271
Net Operatng _n one BE#ore ya a       l74,45 391)   (52,36)    (44,989)    (28,311)   (16,8)    (3,00)    11,910
NtOperating Rarn (%)                                                                 119%       13%1      -10%.       -04%        -32%       -91-       9 7%
NettnoineterTaest  efrExrornyte                                                  7391      (55,16    (4,962)   (2,311)    (8,386)    (3,000)    11.910
Notue Npetan Incrrot foe a                                                         (75,391)   (55,816)   (44,982)   (28,311)   (16,386)    (3,000)    11,910
72



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska (EPRS)
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds for Years Ending December 31
(KM thousand)
* , ,   .-                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~Forecast
S  i |      L     ~~~~~2001   2002       2003       2004       2005       2006       2007
TtlInterna Sources
Net Operabng lnoDme Beore Financial Costs                                           -74,499    -52,362    -37,259    -18,971    -7,801     4,872     19,1 B1
Deprecration                                                                          215,850    219,373    225,527    231,660    236,935    242,210    247,486
Total Intemal Source                                                                141,351    167,011    188,268    212,689    229,133    247,082    266,666
External Sources
Grants644                                                                                      236        283                                    
EB-MtOernS9rf                                                                       12,342     74,773     50,183         -          -          - 
Total External Sources                                                              18,782     77,140     53,016
TOTAL SOURCES                                                                       160,33    244,151    241284    2,6B9    229,i33    247,0B2    266,666
APPLICATIOS
Capital nvestnent ReireqruetsY                                                     105,693    184,629    183,9      158,250    158,250    158,250    158,250
Total Capital lnvestment Requirements                                              105,693    164,629    183,985    158,250    158,250    158,250    158,250
Taxes
Prt Tax
Debt Service Pout-War Debt
Interest                                                                            893      3,454      7,723      9,339       8,585      7,872     7,271
PrnciPal                                                                           598       2,322      3,328      3,328     11,699     11,100      9.377
Debt Service Pre-War Debt
kirerest
Principal                                            :
Total Debt Service                                                                   1,491      5,776     11,051     12,668      20,283     18,973     16,648
Interest on short-erm borowings                                         .                           0 O                   0          0          0          O
Increase (Decrease) in Woring Capital                                               29,238     26,854     22,695     26,057      16,868    29,300     13,558
TOTAL APPLCATIONS                                                                  136,422    217,259    217,731    196,974    195,402    206,522    188,456
C9*VC_itlh8 _ililr                                                                  531,393    80,265    103,833    119>552    1S34284    193,S43    27Z,053
Self Financing Rato                                                                   89%        85%        88%        104%       121%      126%       149%
DebtSeviceCoverageRatio                                                              94481      28.92      1704       16.79      11.30       13.02      16.02
- 73 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Elektoprivreda Republika Srpksa (EPRS)
Actual and Forecast B3alance Sheet for Years Ending December 31
(KM biousand)
; | l    | 1|1   t2G~~~~201           200        2003       2004       2005       2006       2007
GossFhed Ass8s                                                                   7,122,841  7,228,534  7,413,164  7,597,149  7,755,39g  7,913,649  8,071,899
Low A qxmilvl           n Dew                                                    4,972,245  5,191.617  5,417,144  5,648,04  5,835,739  6,127,949  6,375,434
Not Food Assft                                             ~~~~~~~~~2,150,596   2,036,917   1,996,019   1,948,345   1,869,660   1,785,700   1,696,465
Work4ln-PtOiSS                                                                    105,693    184,629    183,965    158,250    156,250    158,250    158,250
ToW F'ad Asset                                                                  2,256296   2.221,546   2,180,005   2,106,595  2,027,910   1,943,950   1,854.715
IriubleI Assts                                                                       3,947      3,947      3,947      3,947      3,947      3,947      3,947
cuzver ASSeSU
Cash                                                                               53,393     80,285    103,83     119,552    153,284    193,843    272,053
Grow Trade Receivables                                                            354 891    387,056    412,785    431,131    450,456    470,829    492.325
PrvmWon for DauWrtA Debt                                                          161 101    171.147    179.192    184,934    196,984    197,363    2041,096
NoTrade PAceIvbll                                                                 193,790    215,909    233,594    246,197    259,472    273,466    288,229
05w Receiablie                                                                     30900      3030 30.000      30,000     30.00  000D    30,000      30,600
Inventories                                                                        41,454     41,454     41,454     41,454     41,454     41,454     41.454
Total Cuient Asses                                                               318,637    367,849    40,8       437,204    484,210    538,763    631,736
N*y-O"rshi Assets                                                                    9,012      9,012      9,012      9,012      9,012      9,012      9,012
2,587 886  2,602,153  2,601,850   2,556,758   2,525,079  2,495.673  2.499,410
EQAJTTES AND MABILITIES
Sbtat CapIta                                                                     3,685956   3,685,956   .,685,958   3,685,958   3,685,958   3,685,958   3,685,956
Revd&.MWn Peser7e 021                                                                         72.021     72,021     72,021     72,021     72,021     72,021
ReFned           E Eaingose                                                     -1,481,921  -1,537,736  -1,582,718  -1,611,028  -1,627,415  -1,630,415  -1,618,505
TOW Eqaty                                                                       2,276,058   2.220,243   2.175.261   2,146,951   2,130.564  2.127.584  2,139,474
DOrPra                                                                             130,370    132,737    135,570    138,570    135.570    135,570    135,570
Post-war DX                                                                         36039    108,490    155,345    152,017    140,318    129,218    119.841
La  Cuifernt PU17or6                                                                 222       3,328      3.328     11,699     11,100      9,377
Not Post-War Debt                                                                   33717    105,162    152,017    140,318    129,218    119,841    119,841
Pre-War Long-Teefn Dead                                                                  0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Lee CasrerIt Pordo                                                                                                                               
Net Pro-War Lonlg-Term Debt                                                              t                                                        
Cumn Liabilites
AcCurit Paybl                                                                      76T225     71,490     66,480     53,026     49,433     34,127     35,332
CtMATt P4ud   f Aye Long-Term Deb                                                   2,322      3,328      3,328     11,699     11,100      9,377          0
CiarrI PorImtof Prol'-War Long-Term Debt                                                                                 00                      
Olfie CisAftIo LMebowe                                                             69,154     69.194     69,194     69,194     69,194     69,194     69.194
Toal CuTer Uabl                                                                  147,741    144,012    139,002    133,919    129,728    112,698    104,526
- 74  -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
Procurement
1.       Responsibility. The project implementation would require procurement of goods and works,
and selection and employment of consulting firms to carry out consulting services. The PIUs responsible
for implementation of Power 2 (the Federal PIU, the branch PIUs in EPBiH and EPHZHB, and the PIU in
EPRS) would continue for the proposed project. The Procurement Capacity Assessment has identified the
need for strengthening each of the Elektroprivreda PlUs with qualified procurement staff. The Federal PIU
would not require any strengthening since it would not be handling procurement matters under the project.
In addition, intemational consultants would work together with the PlUs of the three EPs during project
implementation. The foreign consultants would be employed to assist in procurement activities for the
rehabilitation of the transmission lines included in the project and for the Rama flydro Power project. They
would also provide in-house training to the Elektropriovredas' procurement staff. A World Bank
procurement workshop would be organized immediately after loan effectiveness to ensure that the agreed
procurement procedures are well understood by PIU staff.
2.       Methods for Bank-Financed Procurement.  Bank-financed goods, works and technical
services would be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, revised January 1996, August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents would be used for Bank-financed
procurement. The selection of Consultants to be financed by the Bank would be carried out in accordance
with the "Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by
the Bank in January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The project procurement plan is
given in Para 10. A General Procurement Notice would be published in the Development Business of the
United Nations in May 2001.
3.       Methods for Non-Bank-Financed Procurement. Project procurement not financed by the
Bank would be carried out in accordance with Bosnian and the co-financiers' procurement rules and
regulations.  Procurement arrangements under parallel financing would be the responsibility of the
borrower and the co-lenders.
4.       Project Goods and Works. The project would finance restoration of the 400 kV and other high
voltage transmission systems, especially reconstruction of damaged substations (US$ 85.9 million). The
project would also include a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System component to
improve power dispatching and facilitate the operation of the high voltage network within BiH on an
integrated basis (US$ 44.2 million). It would include investments in power distribution to provide
electricity to returning refugees and to reconstruct damaged facilities, thereby relieving serious overloading
in some areas and enabling reduction in the high levels of technical distribution losses (US$ 41.0 million).
It would provide investments at selected hydropower stations to improve safety and plant availability (US$
22.6 million). Investments at thermal power stations would be limited to reducing pollution (US$ 16.9
million).
- 75 -



5.       Project Technical and Consultant Services. The project would finance technical assistance
for:
(i)      procurement and implementation of the physical components (US$ 2.8 million);
(ii)    the Joint Power Coordination Center ZEKC (US$ 1.0 million);
(iii)    a survey of socially vulnerable electricity consumers (US$ 0.1 million);
(iv)     corporatization and commercialization of the power sector enterprises (US$ 6.5 million); and
(v)      establishment of regulatory agencies (US$ 3.0 million).
Training would be included for (i), (ii), (iv) and (v).
6.       Procedures for Bank-Financed Goods and Supply and Installation Contracts. International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used for works and supply and installation contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more. ICB procedures would cover 100% of Bank-financed works and
supply and installation contracts.
7.      Supply and Installation Arrangements.  Transmission line reconstruction is best realized
through supply and install arrangements, which would be applied for a large part of the project
procurement using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Supply and Installation of Plant and
Equipment. This approach would be appropriate because the cost of works would represent a substantial
part of the estimated contract value (up to about 50% of the total contract value); and (b) installation
separate from equipment supply is generally a lengthier process and could delay project implementation.
Procurement Review
8.      Prior Review. Procurement documents for Bank-financed components would be subject to the
Bank's review. The prior review would cover 100% of Bank-financed procurement value.
9.      Procurement Audit. In addition to prior reviews, the Bank may carry out an audit of the
procurement it finances. Whereas the prior reviews are regular tasks under the project, procurement audit
would be a spot check of the quality and consistency of Bank-financed procurement work.
10.     Procurement Plan. The project procurement plan is given in the following table. It does not
include US$ 7.1 million for services to be provided in-house by the EPs.
- 76 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
THRID ELECTRiC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Project Procurement Plan
Main Procurement Actity
EstImated                                                  Awardl
Cost              Procurement  InviatIon  Submission   SIgning of
Project                     Beneficiary       USS M   Financier     Method       of Bids    of Bids     Contract  Compldion
TRANSMISSION COMPONENT
T-01  400 kV Transmission Lines             EPBiH / EPHZHB I EPRS       17.5   IDA          ICB        Feb-02         Apr-02     Jun-02       Apr-04
T-02  220/110 kV Transmission Lines         EPBiH I EPHZHB I EPRS        7.0   IDA          ICB        Mar-02         Jun-02     Aug-02      Aug-03
5-01- EPBiH Substations                     EPBiH                       15.0   EIB    Donor's method                  Apr-02     Jun-02      Mar-03
S-02  Works                                 EPBiH                        2.1  EPBiH                                                          Sep-03
S-03- EPHZHB Substations                    EPHZHB                      16.3   EIB    Donors method                   Apr-02     Jun-02      Mar-03
S-04 Works                                  EPHZHB                       2.3 EPHZHB                                                          Sep-03
S-05- EPRS Substations                      EPRS                        22.3   EIB    Donors method                   Apr-02     Jun-02      Mar-03
S-06 Works                                  EPRS                         3.4  EPRS                                                           Sep-03
SCADA COMPONENT
Z-01- SCADA - ZEKC                          ZEKC                         7.6  EBRD   Donors method                   Feb-02       Apr-02      Jan-04
Z-02' SCADA - EPBiH                         EPB)H                       12.2  EBRO   Donor's method                  Feb-02       Apr-02     Jan-04
Z-03' SCADA - EPHZHB                        EPHZHB                      12.2  EBRD   Donors method                   Feb-02       Apr-02     Jan-04
Z-04- SCADA - EPRS                          EPRS                        12.2  EBRD   Donor's method                  Feb-02       Apr-2       Jan-04
HYDROPOWER STATION COMPONENT
H-01- HPP Jablanica Unit 5                  EPBiH                        5.1  SECO   Donors method                   Nov-99      Dec-99      May-01
H-02 Works                                  EPBiH                        0.4  EPBiH                                                          Nov-01
H-03' HPP Jablanica Unit 6                  EPBiH                        4.9  SECO   Donors method                    Apr-01      Jul-01     May-02
H-04' HPP Jablanica Common Services         EPBiH                        4.0  SECO   Donors method                    Apr-01      Jul-01     May-02
H-04 Works                                  EPBiH                        1.1  EPBiH                                                          Nov-02
H-05 HPP Rama                               EPHZHB                       2.9   IDA          [CB        Apr-02         Jul-02     Sep-02       Jul-04
H-06 Works                                  EPHZHB                       0.6 EPHZHB                                                          Sep-04
H-074  HPP Trebtnje                         EPRS                         2.9   KtW    Donors method                  Jun-01      Aug-01      Jun-03
H-08 Works                                  EPRS                         0.7  EPRS                                                           Sep-03
THERMAL POWER STATION COMPONENT
C-01' TPP Tuzta                             EPBiH                        3.0   NW    Donors method                    Jul-02      Oct-02     Jun-04
C-02 Works                                  EPBiH                        0.4  EPBiH                                                          Sep-04
C-03' TPP Kakanj                            EPBiH                        5.0   NYI   Donors method                    Jul-02      Oct-02     Jun-04
C-04 Works                                  EPBiH                        0.7  EPBiH                                                          Sep-04
c-OS' TPP Gacko                             EPRS                         1.1   NYt   Donors method                    Jul-02      Oct-02     Jun-04
C-06 Works                                  EPRS                         0.6  EPRS                                                           Sep-04
C-07' TPP Ugljevik                          EPRS                         4.5   NYI   Donors method                    Jul-02      Oct-02     Jun-04
C-S08 Works                                 EPRS                         1.6  EPRS                                                           Sep-04
DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT
D-XX- To be determnined by donors           EPBiH / EPHZHB I EPRS       41.0  USAID f Donors' methods
NORAD/
Spain
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
q-01  Procurement                           EPBiH I EPHZHB I EPRS        2.8   IDA        QCBS         Jul-01        Aug-01       Oct-01      Apr-04
Q-02 Financial management of Eps            EPBiH / EPHZHB / EPRS        4.7   IDA        QCBS        Sep-01          Oct-01     Dec-01      Sep-04
Q-03 Social assessment of electricity consumers   EPBiH/ EPHZHB / EPRS   0.1   IDA        aCBS        Sep-01          Oct-01     Dec-01       Apr-04
0-04 Corporatizaton and commercializaton of EPs EPBiH EPHZHB / EPRS      1.8   EC    Donors method   Mar-O          Jun-01      Aug-01      Aug-03
Q-05' Establishment of ISO                  ZEKC                         1.0   DFID   Donors method                  Nov-01      Dec-01      Dec-03
0-06' Establishment of regulatory agencies  FBiH & RS Govemments;        3.0  USAID   Donor's method                 Nov-01      Dc0         Dec-03
NERC, ERC FBiH, and
ERC RS
These packages may contain multiple contracts / lots
NYI Financer not yet identified
- 77 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurementetd
Expenditure Category            IcB              NC      d:                N.B.F.   ToI  cost
1. Works                            2.90             0.00          0.00         13.90       16.80
(2.90)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.90)
2. Goods                            0.00             0.00          0.00         125.10      125.10
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00          7.60         12.90       20.50
(0.00)          (0.00)        (7.60)       (0.00)       (7.60)
4. Supply and Install               24.50            0.00          0.00         44.20       68.70
(24.50)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)      (24.50)
Total                            27.40            0.00          7.60         196.10      231.10
(27.40)         (0.00)         (7.60)       (0.00)      (35.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2! ilcludes three consulting services to be financed by IDA with selection being based on QCBS.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B is not required as all IDA-financed components would be subject to prior review.
- 78 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
11.     The Credit proceeds would be disbursed over the three-year period October 2001 to September
2004. The Project Completion Date would be September 30, 2004, and the Credit Closing Date would be
March 31, 2005, when full disbursement of the Credit is anticipated. The Elektroprivredas would maintain
all required supporting documentation for at least one year beyond the year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account has taken place and make it available for review by the Bank staff and
independent auditors upon request.
12.     Disbursements from the IDA credit would initially be made on the traditional system with
reimbursements against direct payments. Once a satisfactory financial management system has been
installed and is operating satisfactory, the method for disbursement may be changed to the new procedure
whereby proceeds from the Credit are disbursed against quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs).
The target date for such a conversion would be August 15, 2002.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in Mmillion           Financin  Percentage
(1) Goods (including associated works                      100% of foreign expenditures, 100 % of
and services)                                             local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
85% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
(a) EPBiH Transmission Lines               10.50
(b) EPHZHB Transmission Lines              3.80
(c) EPRS Transmission Lines                10.20
(2) Works                                                                85%
(a) HPP Rama                               2.90
(3) Consultants' services                                                100%
(a) Technical assistance to EPBiH          2.54
(b) Technical assistance to EPHZHB         2.53
(c) Technical assistance to EPRS           2.53
Total Project Costs                        35.00           _
Total                                      35.00
Special account:
There would be no Special Accounts prior to expenditures being made on the basis of PMRs.
Statements of Expenditure:
As all procurement packages are subject to prior review, disbursements would be made against full
documentation.
- 79 -



Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirement Review
The procurement capacity assistance has shown that there are significant shortcomings in the procurement
legislation, policies and procedures currently in place in the country. A Country Procurement Assessment
Report has not yet been prepared. However, experience on procurement for previous IDA-financed projects
in the power sector has been satisfactory, and it is proposed to strengthen the existing system for
procurement work under the project.
Based on an assessment of the capacity of the E]lektroprivreda PIUs to conduct procurement, the following
action plan would be implemented:
One procurement specialist (PS) should be appointed in each PIU to assist in implementing
procurement activities for the project. The PS should have familiarity with World bank
procurement procedures and practices. The PS shall be appointed prior to the Project Launch
Workshop.
-     As soon as possible after project effectiveness, consultants should be appointed to assist the EP
PIUs in procurement-related activities for IDA financed goods and works.
-     In addition to the Project Launch Workshop, a procurement seminar will be held within six months
of credit effectiveness to familiarize the PIU staff with World Bank procurement procedures and
practices.
-     The PS for each PIU should attend Bank-sponsored training courses in Turin.
-     The PlUs should develop computerized procurement monitoring system to track procurement
actions and produce periodic progress reports.
Section 3: Training, Information and Developiment on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop:                    October 2001
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice:  May 2001
Is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business:    No
Domestic Preference for Goods:                                No
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable:                 NIA
Retroactive financing:                                        No
Advance procurement:                                          No
- 80 -



Procurement Monitoring System:                                  A computerized procurement
monitoring system will be
established within the PIUs
which will collect and keep
up to-date all procurement
data and use this in
progress reports to the Bank.
Procurement arrangements under co-financing:                    Components financed by other
co-financiers will be procured
in accordance with their
procedures.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Procurement Staff responsible for the procurement in the Project:  Iftikhar Khalil, PTL & PAS.
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement:  Limited liaison role only.
- 81 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
ct0 0040 0h.PAW M,                                    nnd                       At:ku al
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                     11
First Bank mission (identification)              05/24/99                      05/24/99
Appraisal mission departure                      03/26/2000                    03/26/2000
Negotiations                                     05/08/2000                    05/08/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/01/2001
Prepared by:
The three Elektroprivredas (EPBiH, EPHZHB} and EPRS) with the support of the Ministries of Energy.
and the Joint Coordinating Center (ZEKC).
Preparation assistance:
Consultancy assistance provided by AGRA Monenco-Teshmont of Canada with financing from th,
Canadian Consultant Trust Fund managed by the World Bank, Electrotek Concepts (SCADA component)
with financing by USTDA, NERA (electricity policy statements) with financing by DFID, and Norwegian
consultants (electricity laws) with financing by the Government of Norway.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     S0peiality
Iftikhar Khalil                   Program Team Leader/Engineer/Procurement Accredited Staff
Richard Hamilton                   Energy Economist
Anna Bjerde                       Financial Analyst
Felix Martin                      Economist
Angelica Fernandes                Procurement Analyst
Bemard Baratz                     Envircinmental Specialist
Chai Ting                         Financial Management Specialist
Laszlo Jamniczky                   Consultant
Peter Kelly                       Consultant
Yolanda Gedse                      Team Assistant
Migara Jayawardena                 Financial Analyst
- 82 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan for the three Elektroprivredas
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Analyses of EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS
Project Economic and Financial Analyses
C. Other
Electric Power III Reconstruction Project, Final Report, AGRA Monenco-Teshmont, January 2000, with
updated economic and financial analysis in April 2001.
SCADA Feasibility Report (in progress)
Environmental Management Plans of EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS
Electricity Policy Statement of the RS, approved on April 20, 2000
Electricity Policy Statement of the FBiH, approved on May 5, 2000
Draft Electricity Law of the RS, submitted to the FBiH House of Representatives on April 12, 2001
Draft Electricity Law of the FBiH, submitted to the FBiH House of Representatives on May 30, 2000
*lncluding electronic files
- 83 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
Difference between expected
and actLal
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                          IBRD          IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Revd
P044523        1999 BASIC HEALTH                                          0.00      10.15                             0.00       9.56        0.22      0 00
P059763        1999 CULT. HERITAGE PILOT                                  0.00       4.13                             0.00       4.13        2.26       0 00
P045313        1998 EDUCATION RECONSTR.                                   0.00      10.60                             0.00       1.53        1.90       C0
P045483        1998 ELEC. POWER II                                        0.00      25.43                             0.00      23.87       22.56      . 00
P050892        1998 EM PILOT CREDIT (RS)                                  0.00       5.06                             0.00       0.53        0.47       ' 00
P045310        1997 EMG PUB WORKS & EMPL                                  0.00       9.63                             0.00       0.62        0.79       C 00
P062936        1999 ENT EXP FACIL (BEEF)                                  0.00      12.10                             0.00      12.10        4.96       ' 00
P048461        1999 ENTER & BANKING PRIV                                  0.00      51.59                             0.00      41.27       14.72       . 00
P044522        1997 ESSEN. HOSPITAL SERV                                  0.00      14.28                             0.00        1.56       2.38       C00
P045134        1998 FORESTRY                                              0.00       6.72                             0.00       6.33        2.34      0 00
P056192        1999 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT                                     0.00      15.24                             0.00      14.56       -0.15      Li D0
P045311        1997 LOCAL INITIATIVES                                     0.00       6.72                             0.00       0.13        0.40       10 0
P055432        1999 PFSAC II                                              0.00      72.81                             0.00      44.44      68.76          00
P048462        1998 RECON ASST-REPUBLIKA                                  0.00      16.78                             0.00       2.48        1.40       0 00
P045484        1998 TRANSPORT RECON. II                                   0.00      38.77                             0.00       3.99       4.40       C 00
Total:        0.00      300.01                             0.00      167.10     127.41       C 00
- 84 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997/99            Bosnia Micro                    0.00     0.27    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.27      0.00    0.00
1985               Energoinvest                    8.10    0.00    0.00      0.00    8.10    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               Enterprise Fund                 0.00     1.84    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.39     0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Akova                        1.96    0.00    0.00     0.00     1.96    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999                SEF Bosnalijek                 0.00     0.00    2.30     0.00    0.00    0.00      2.30    0.00
1999                SEF Kopex                      2.16     0.00     0.00    0.00     2.16    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                SEF Lignosper                  2.14     0.00    0.00     0.00     1.86    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Lijanovici                  2.32     0.00    0.00     0.00     2.32    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997                Sarajevska                     3.33     0.00     0.00    0.00    3.33    0.00      0.00    0.00
1977               TKA Cazin                       3.44     0.00    0.00     0.00    3.44    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Agency-AL                  4.61     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998                Wood Inga                       1.63    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.33    0.00      0.00    0.00
0                 Wood Konjuh                     2.32     0.00    0.00     0.00    2.06    0.00     0.00    0.00
0                 Wood Kozara                     1.63    0.00     0.00     0.00    1.37    0.00     0.00    0.00
0                 Wood Podgradci                  1.16    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.95    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Wood Vrbas                      1.63    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.33    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        36.43     2.11     2.30     0.00    28.21    0.66     2.30    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity     Quasi    Panic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 85 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project
Sasania  Eurooe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         and    Central   middle-
Hlrzregost>ne      Asia   income        Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                              ..       475       2.094                   Life expectancy
GNP Per caDita (Atlas method. US$)                            .      2,150     1t200
GNP (Atlias method, U$ bllions)                             4.5      1,022      2,513                         T
Averase annual growth. 1993-99
Pooulation f%f                                                         0,1        1t1
Labor force G%N 1.2                                                                           P                               Gross
per                            I  .  . primary
Most recent estimate (latest year vavila4ble 1993-99)                                      capita           .  .          enrollment
Poverty 1% of population below national poveriy lifnel        -
Urban population (% of total ooPulation)                    43          87        43
Life expectancv at birth (rears)                            73          69         69
infant mortalilY(port 1000 livo births)                     13          22        33
ChGlr rnalnutrition i% of children under 5J                  ..                     1s               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of copulation)            ..         ..        S6
Illiteracy f% of population aoe t56+                         ..          3         16
Gross primary enroltmenet (% of school-are Dootul8WiOn        -        0oo        114         -     osnia and Herzegovina
Male                                                        -       101        114                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                     ..        99        116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989        199t       1999      - ------           - -----
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ itWiovns)                                ,,        .-        4.1        4.6
Gross dornestc irlvestmentlGDP                                        38.0       33.3                       Trade
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                                     33,7       34.0
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                          -1,1                          9.4
Gross national savings/GOP                          .                 10.9       16.7
Current accounl balarucefGDP                        -                -27.1      -&6        Domes-ic
interest aymrents/GDP                                         .        1,4        1.4      Dmsic                  >       Investment
Totat debt/GOP                                                        74.0       67.5       .v.
Total debt servce/exoorts                          .         ..        9.6        7.9
Present value of debtGDP                                              25.7         ..
Present value of debtlexports                       .                 76.3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998        1999   1999-03
(averaqe arnual orowth)
GOP                                      ..                12.8       10.0       11.0                 Bosnia and Herzegovina
GNIP per capita                          ..        ..      12.8       10.0       11.1               *Lower-middle-income group
Exports of qoods aPd services                       ..     33.7       11.0       12, f
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     19119       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                 75
Aqriculture                                                   .       15.8       15.8        T
Industry                                                      .       27.8       27.8      50T
Manufacturinq                                               .          .          ..    25
Services                                                      .       56.4       56.4
Private consumption                                                      .                 25      9
General qovernment consumption                     .GDI                                                             O GDP
Imports of qoods and services                                         70.6       57.9
1979-89  1989-99        1998       1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual qrowthJ
Agriculture                                        l..       .
Industry                                                      .                           120,-
Manuifacturinq..                                            .          ...                
Services                                           ...    6u-
Private consumption
General government consumption                      .         .          ..         .        .    94   95   96   97   98   99
Gross domestic investment                                     .        3.7       -3.5    -60
Imoorts of goods and services                       .        .         7.8       -9.8             -      aponts    Itmp0rt
Gross national product                             ..        ..       17.3       11.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-grouc average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 86 -



Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989        1998      1999       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                           20
(% change)
Consumer prices (In KM. the Federation)                                5.0       0.0         -
Implicit GDP deflator                                                                      o .  .           --
-10 ,    94     N    9fi /  97    9      99
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current qrants)                                                      -20
Current revenue                                                       32.6      29.4    -30
Current budaet balance                                                -0.6      -3.7                    GOP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                      ,        -7.2      -3.0
TRADE
(US$ motionS)                                   1979      1989       1998      1999       Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                                   817        970     3OO0 T
n.e.
n.a.                                                                                    2,000
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                                 2573       2.399
F ood                                                                                   1 000
Fuel and enerqv
93   94   95   9S   97   98   99
Export Price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                      ..                                                 E Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989        1998      1999       Current account balance to GDP )%),
(US$ millions)                                                                             incl current official transfers
Exports of toods and services                                       1.367      1,560
Imports of qoods and services                                       2,864      2,661       o
Resource balance                                                   -1,498    -1,101            93
Net income                                                           -111        -79      10
Net current transfers                       ,                         510        417
Current account balance                                            -1.098       -763               I          I   j 3_
Financinq items (net)                                                1,014     1 347
Chanqes in net reserves                                                85       -583
Memo:
Reserves includina cold (USS millions)                                175        380
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSS)                   ..        ..        1.8       1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989        1998      1999      -' ''
(US$ millions)                                                                            Composition of 1998 debt (US$ minll.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed                                                     | .
IBRD                                                                596       596                    G 278
IDA                                                                 437       373                                   A 596
Total debt service                                           ..         ..         - F
IBRD                                                       .         35        34           F 400/
IDA                                                        ..         2         3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                           B 437
Official prants                                                     469       735
Official creditors                                                  181       255
Private creditors                                                   -75        -74                                     C:77
Foreign direct investment                                             0        60                  |                  70
Portfolio eauitv                                     --               0          0             E 1,124
World Bank proqram
Commitments                                      --        -        100       163      EA - BRD                          - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                       135        68       B - DA  D  - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repavments                                                  0          0     LC - IMF                       G-Short-term
Netflows                                                            135        68
Interest pavments                                                    38        36
Net transfers                                                        97        32
Development Economics
- 87 -



Additional
Annex 1 1
Review of Financial Management Arrangements
General
A review of the Financial Management System was undertaken between December 1999 and March 2001
to:
(i)    assess the project's capacity and readiness for the implementation of LACI;
(ii)   review the presence of the necessary elements for sound project financial management system such
as internal controls, project accounting, project staffing and audit arrangements; and
(iii)   prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial management system to achieve
Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursement that would assist the project to move
towards LACI (a report on the Review of Financial Management System is included in the Project
Implementation Plan).
Project Management and Coordination
The PlUs created within the three power companies for Power 2 would be the implementing agencies for
the project. The PIUs would manage contracting and expenditure under the project and coordinate project
activities. They would receive no financing from the IDA Credit.
The Federal PIU was established in March 1998 to support the implementation of Power 2, partly financed
by IDA. It currently handles the Special Account for EPBiH and EPHZHB. Under the proposed project,
the Federal PIU would not have financial management responsibilities. The Federal PIU's main role under
that project would be to coordinate project implementation in EPBiH and EPHZHB.
Staffing
Each Elektroprivreda PIU would have at least one full-time accountant with sound credentials and
experience in accounting (acceptable to the Association) to make sound judgments on the maintenance of
the books of accounts and on the production of financial information. In EPBiH, the alternative
arrangement proposed by management under which EPBiH would nominate several staff members from the
accounting department to be responsible for financial management of the project is acceptable to the Bank.
The nomination of suitable accountants in the tlhree PIUs is acceptable to the Bank.
Accounting and Internal Controls
The project accounting would comply with International Accounting Standards. The local accounting
standards, which are closely based on International Accounting Standards, were adopted by FBiH with
effect from January 1, 1999 and by RS with effect from January 1, 2000. Donor agencies are currently
providing training to local accountants to familiarize them with the new standards.
During the recent audits of the three PIUs, thie auditors did not identify any weaknesses in the internal
controls. IDA also did not identify any major internal control weaknesses during the recent financial
management supervision of Power 2.
- 88 -



Adequate intemal controls, including financial policies and procedures, segregation of duties, financial
authorities, are included in the financial manuals of the three PIUs.
Project Accounting System
The three Elektroprivreda PIUs would be responsible for overall project financial management and
accounting. Each PIU would maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial
statements and financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. The
overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i)    Books of accounts for the project would be maintained by the Elektroprivreda PIUs on
double-entry bookkeeping principles. Project accounts would be maintained using a computerized
accounting system.
(ii)   Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including donors contributions), and
all utilization of project funds. All project-related transactions (whether involving cash or not)
would be accounted in the books of accounts. This would include contributions made by donors.
Disbursements made by IDA and the Special Account maintained by BiH would also be included
in the project accounting system. Funds received from different sources would be identified
separately and reflected in the project accounts and financial statements
(iii)   Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities of the
enterprise. This distinction would be effected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable Trial
Balance for the project capturing all project receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the
project would be prepared. A Chart of Accounts for the project would be prepared. The Chart of
Accounts would conform to the classification of expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the
project documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document). The Chart of
Accounts would enable data to be captured in a manner as to facilitate financial reporting of
project expenditures by: project components; expenditure categories; disbursement categories; and
funding donors.
(iv)   Project Financial Statements and financial reports would be filly based on the project books of
accounts, and substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
(v)   Physical information on key performance indicators which can be readily linked to financial costs
would be maintained as part of the project financial management system. Initially this would be
maintained for some high cost items which account for a significant portion of project cost, and for
items for which data on physical activities can be easily captured. These items have been identified
and indicated in the Financial Manual.  This list would be gradually expanded during
implementation.
The three Elektroprivreda PIUs have acquired and implemented the Scala accounting system (computerised
accounting software) which is capable of producing PMRs in accordance with LACI requirements. This
system has been designed keeping in mind, inter alia, an accounting and intemal control system with the
capacity to record and retrieve in a timely manner all financial transactions under the project.
The accounting system conforms with intemationally accepted standards and would:
(i)   reliably record and report all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the project;
(ii)   provide reliable financial information for managing and monitoring project activities, and
(iii)   provide quarterly PMRs on a timely basis.,
- 89 -



The accounting system is classified by component; reflects the sources of funds and is broken down into
different types of expenditures for the project. Further, it provides information on the receipt and use of
funds and is able to produce financial reports comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given time.
The system is capable of providing financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs of the
project. It is an important element of the financial management system. The Scala system is considered
acceptable to IDA.
Planning and Budgeting
The three PIUs should prepare quarterly budgets for the new project, although they do not prepare detailed
planning and budgeting for Power 2. The PIUs would need to improve their financial management skills in
the preparation of budgets in accordance with the PMR format (disbursement categories, components and
activities, financiers, account codes, and by mcnth).
Accounting Flows
The PIUs would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on all
activities of the project and send these to the Bank for payments. Because of the small number of contracts
and large value items, the financial flows for all activities in Power 3 would initially involve direct payment
from the credit accounts to suppliers, and there would be no Special Account initially.
Financial Reporting
Each Elektroprivreda PIU would maintain its own accounts for its part of the project and would ensure
appropriate accounting of the funds provided. Each Elektroprivreda PIU would be responsible for
designing appropriate PMRs and preparing PMRs on a quarterly basis, and would furnish the PMR for
each quarter to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, commencing
for the quarter ending June 30, 2002. The PMR would:
(i)   (a) set forth actual sources and applications of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project for
the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (b) show separately
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report
and expenditures proposed to be fmarLced out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)   (a) describe physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by said report; and (b) explain variances between the actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and
(iii)  set forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Financial Manual
Each Elektroprivreda PIU has completed a project financial manual which covers:
(i)   the financial management system proposed under the project, with special emphasis on accounting
and auditing policies, standards and internal controls;
(ii)   the role of the financial management systems in project management and implementation;
- 90 -



(iii)  the accounting arrangements required for project management, the format for and content of
project financial reporting;
(iv)   the auditing arrangements that would be used during project implementation, and
(v)    budgeting and planning.
The financial manuals have been reviewed by the financial management specialist and are acceptable to
IDA.
Financial Management Risks
The risks related to the financial management aspects of the project include:
(i)    possible delays in preparation of PMRs;
(ii)   poor handling of financial management due to a poor accounting environment and few qualified
accountants in BiH;
(iii)   possible continued lack of control of operating costs and large operating losses; and
(iv)   possible misuse of the IDA Credit.
These risks are considered to be manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures identified.
Nonetheless, they are highlighted here in view of their potential to adversely affect project performance.
These aspects would be monitored closely as part of project supervision.
The risk that preparation of the project management reports would be delayed and that the quality of the
reports may be of variable or unsatisfactory quality is due to the fact that the PlUs have not previously
prepared PMRs. Timely preparation, use of the project management reports and satisfactory quality of
these reports are essential to facilitate effective project management. The risk-mitigation factors are the
substantial upfront actions which are being taken including: (a) design of a comprehensive financial
management system; (b) implementation of a computerized financial management system; (c) recruitment
of key financial staff to augment financial management capabilities. The three PIUs have been using the
Scala accounting system, which is capable of producing reliable PMRs. Disbursements from the IDA
Credit would not be made on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs) in the first year, but rather
be made on the traditional reimbursement basis. Disbursements could be converted to the PMR-based
method when the financial management system is operating satisfactorily.
The risk relating to the limited number of qualified accountants in BiH is being mitigated by stipulating the
profile of the desired accountant and ensuring that the Association has a say in the recruited accountant.
With respect to the poor accounting environment in BiH, it has been decided to build up sufficient
accounting capacity within the project by specifying in detail what is required and by creating a project
coordination unit, i.e., by ring-fencing the project.
All three Elektroprivredas have inadequate control of operating costs, operating losses and poor financial
management systems. The three Elektroprivredas need to improve their financial positions and also their
financial management systems urgently. The three Elektroprivredas are currently implementing detailed
action plans (acceptable to IDA) to address these issues. IDA would monitor the implementation of these
action plans regularly.
The risk of misuse of the Bank's fund needs to be taken into account because of perceived corruption as
reported in the press. The three Elektroprivredas operate in a business environment with a high rate of
perceived corruption, even though implementation of the two earlier power projects is considered to have
been satisfactory. The risk that the project funds would not be used as intended for financing the defined
investment program would be minimized by "ring-fencing" the project via the Elektroprivreda PIUs,
- 91 -



segregating duties within the PIUs, recruiting appropriate staff in financial management and procurement,
and requiring independent audits of project funds by an independent accounting firm. Furthermore, all
procurement activities would be subject to prior review by the Bank and disbursements from the IDA
Credit would be made initially on the traditional system with direct payments and no Special Accounts.
Cost and Financial Performance
The project's financing plan and the project's planned expenditures have been realistically estimated and
the project is considered financially sustainable.
The cost tables are based on realistic assumptions including appropriate physical and price contingencies.
The project documentation adequately shows the relationship between the disbursement categories in
Schedule I of the Development Credit Agreement and the project components.
One of the biggest financial risks at the company level is the ability of the Elektroprivredas to service their
term borrowings, both the pre-war and post-war debts, including those for Power 1, 2 and 3. The analyses
of the future financial performance are included in Section E2 of the PAD. They indicate that the three EPs
are capable of maintaining a satisfactory self-financing ratio, a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5
and overall positive cash flow.
Auditing
The Elektroprivreda PIUs would be responsible for ensuring that the companies' financial statements and
the project financial statements (including special accounts and Project Management Reports (PMRs)) are
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association, in accordance with standards on auditing
that are acceptable to the Association.
The audited financial statements of the preceding fiscal year, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements made against PMRs, would be sent to the Association within six months of the end of the
fiscal year.
The annual audit would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report should be in a format
in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the Intemational Federation of
Accountants (IFAC). The audit report would include a separate opinion for PMRs against which
disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the Credit and PMRs which will be included in
the audit report accompanying the financial statements.
The audit of the financial statement would include:
(i)    an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor expenditures
and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of project-financed assets;
(ii)    a determination as to whether the project implementing entities have maintained adequate
documentation on all relevant transactions; and
(iii)   verification that expenditures submitted to the Association are eligible for financing, and
identification of any ineligible expenditures.
The four PIUs comply with the audit covenants under Power 2 and there were no significant accounting
issues reported by in the most recent project audit, for the year ending December 31, 1999. However the
1999 enterprise audits for the three Elektroprivredas were all qualified by the independent auditors.
- 92 -



(i)    In EPBiH and EPHZHBZ, the auditors were unable to satisfy themselves as to the appropriate
valuation of property, plant and equipment in accordance with the International Accounting
Standards.
(ii)   In EPRS, the auditors issued a qualified (disclaimer - the financial statements were not fairly
stated) opinion on EPRS's financial statement because of the following matters/issues: (a) serious
internal and accounting control weaknesses and numerous inconsistencies in accounting policies
within the entity, (b) inability to verify the existence of the inventory and fixed assets as the
auditors were appointed after the year end, (c) inability to satisfy themselves as to the appropriate
verification & valuation of fixed assets in accordance with the International Accounting Standards,
(d) inability to obtain verification of trade debtors/receivables of KM 154 million, (e) inability to
verify the fair value of 'barter" arrangements with suppliers, (f) inability to fully reconcile internal
balances of KM 2.6 million, and (g) inability to verify the accuracy and fairness of the opening
balances of the capital and reserves. EPRS's financial statements indicated major deficiencies in
the enterprise requiring urgent actions.
Under Power 3, all three Elektroprivredas would have their assets revalued by independent professional
evaluators, by June 30, 2002. The three Elektroprivredas are currently implementing detailed action plans
(acceptable to IDA) to address these issues.
PricewaterhouseCoopers Canada audited the 1998 financial statements of each Elektroprivreda and
PricewaterhouseCoopers Macedonia audited the 1999 financial statements for each Elektroprivreda. The
three Elektroprivredas and the Federal PIU have signed contracts with PricewaterhouseCoopers Macedonia
for the 2000 audits. Each Elektroprivreda would appoint, by effectiveness, an independent auditing firm,
acceptable to the Association, to perform the audits of the company and project financial statements for
2001. In addition, a management letter on intemal controls from the auditors would need to be provided
four months after project effectiveness.
Disbursements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over a period of 3.5 years, which includes
six months for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As there is no standard
disbursement profile for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the disbursement forecast is based on the Bank's
experience in financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other projects in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The Project's Closing Date would be March 31, 2005.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be made initially on the traditional system with reimbursements
against direct payments. However, there would be no Special Accounts initially. Once a satisfactory
financial management system has been installed and is operating satisfactorily, the method for disbursement
may be changed to the new procedure whereby proceeds from the Credit are disbursed against quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs). The target date for such a conversion would be one year from
effectiveness.
Special Account
As disbursements from the IDA Credit would be made initially on the traditional system with
reimbursements against direct payments, there would be no Special Accounts initially. To facilitate timely
project implementation, Special Accounts, denominated in US. Dollars, in the name of each of the
Elektroprivredas would be established when they are converted to the new PMR-based method. Because of
weaknesses of the commercial banks within BiH, banks outside BiH would be used for the purposes of the
Special Accounts.
- 93 -



The Government would be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by IDA under
the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements or
reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is envisaged to be established by all
the three Elektroprivreda PIUs. Independently, the accountants at the Elektroprivreda PIUs would maintain
accounts (for their part of the project) each preparing quarterly financial reports as part of Project
Management Reports.
Conclusion
It is concluded that the Elektroprivreda PIUs currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. However, the three PIUs do not have in place an adequate project financial management
system that can provide the accurate and timely PMRs required by IDA under LACI. An Action Plan was
discussed and agreed with the PIUs. It requires the PIUs to design and implement satisfactory financial
management systems to address the above issues. Once this Action Plan is carried out successfully, it is
believed that the project will have developed an accounting system that will be able to produce the required
level of financial management reports in a timely fashion.
Action Plan
In order to ensure that the project would have a sound financial management system in place which can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMRs)
required by the Bank/IDA, the following time-bound Action Plan has been agreed with the three
Elektroprivredas:
Action                                                           Deadline
1. Submission of the 2001 acceptable financial management action  Done
plan by each Elektroprivreda
2. Submission of the acceptable annual financial management action  January 31 after
plan by each Elektroprivreda                                     each year end
3. Submission of the quarterly progress reports on the financial  30 days after each
management action plans by each Elektroprivreda                  calendar quarter
4. Confirmation by each Elektroprivreda that an independent auditing  By effectiveness
firm, acceptable to the Association, to perform the audits of the company
and project financial statements for 2001.
5. Finalization of 2002 Budget, including recording and allocation of  December 31, 2001
total budget in the accounting system - by month, and by year, by
activities, by categories, by sources and by account codes.
6. Reliable PMRs and satisfactory to the World Bank for the quarter  August 15, 2002
ending June 30, 2002
- 94 -



7. Budgets are reasonable and accurate when compared against the  August 15, 2002
actual
8. Satisfactory supervision report, including FM implementation  August 15, 2002
9. Satisfactory withdrawal applications                          August 15, 2002
10. Satisfactory audit, especially internal controls             August 15, 2002
11. Review of the financial management arrangements by the FMS to  August 31, 2002
assess readiness for PMR based disbursement
- 95 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30803-
16'                                 17-                                  18                                   1
',,                  ~~~C R O A T I A'-_b
Medurie                                       CRO  AT   A
_j          C tqta WBoscnska                     S. Brod
V. Kladusa  2Vrnogrp d  B.od                                                                          Djokovo                     ,
-  45B Dubica B                                                          "        9       >                                 i                      451
TS B5h1ac 1/4     $KrJp                              o1T~iiL                 Prnjavor           raJdascte               {rk 
<       Sanski MostO;\  ~~~~~~~p   t~    Ukr:na            a lonri  XL          Srebrenik          I  g v   Bi1eIsnac
Poa                       OdSaknica Leopca
CROATI     Hi Novi                                              1                 Zenica 2Z 0                       C 
.5, CZP!StrmicavB. Graheva                                       \      V      a     k     u     @SVar                              |     Srebrenica
sk.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-
4  [  . KA?A l.\ t JX TP MBuojno                                                                                         HP B Batsa  ot
-   - .   1          cLivno                  4   ~~~~~~~~HP Rama  spo azarii W          20  R g tc < 
- < Bloto l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p,Y1islegrad ni  le
' -    ~~~~-          K' j Irolea         \H    Grbvce4                t.eev                          oa ~Porpec
TS   a'  B'--,.,,  .. '------------...    Kra/jevac                               TSGa                            REPUBLI
-'Thebinle       MONTENEGRO)Oilina
'So-n~~~ \.^sv CitikfWfT Mostsr3T Ukr:no                            Srv EbDrEnR                              Lenc
BOSNI  Can   NERZEGOVIcAPo
A d ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ktr iVartoi                                        clea                                          s - .  hehPirebneMNTNG
THIRD ELECTRIC POWER                                                         HPDuHPrBona
RECONSTRUCTION  PROJECT                                                                                o50'r' s    75 KILOMETERS
EXISnN4  CO7    TRANSMISSIO  LINES                                               ;4X    1        CZECH} +-PO LAND /        UKRA;NE
1. ~    ~     ~     40v                                                                          RP             R      iE
=               ~~~~~220 kV                                                                                      S           M EMN   ,- - - ,OLDOVA
CROATIA __Grad___                                                        ever
1 10 kY, SIA ,                                                              ASRA  HUNGARY /                \,
L.2:   *                   HYDRO PWER PLANTS rva42 STS Jice                                                                   ROMANIA   V
*L       *      THERMALPOWERPLANTS              ZMpbUnaTh                    2      W  .                CON _
EVP Strm  B. Grahovo                          B    c~~~~~~~~normto. hw            IAY 'i %           GSV
O     SUBSTATIONS    -4 SS borst Edstli,n7r ain                    .-    .  iALY . TP8/ON HP BULGARIA B        , ta
- -RIVERS                            The WOME;Br kGp. 0u  int w'eoa nog At -cic    -y
      NQATIONAL. CAPITAL               00  I@t  t0stUS of ary tr Wry,r  ,U 00/E,   '    ;  AeBANIA\ -'   *;              405/ '''
- --   INTERNtATIONAL BOUlNDARlIES    $6s                                                      I     GREECE., Zt9e    TURKEY
-4A'17' .B                                                                                                          20G:
MAY 2000



