Report No. PID8399
Project Name                     Bosnia and Herzegovina-Third Electric (@+)
Power Reconstruction Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Distribution & Transmission
Project ID                       BAPE58521
Borrower(s)                      Bosnia and Herzegovina
Implementing Agency
Address EPBIH, EPM AND EPRS
Address: See below.
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 28, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 30, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
(i) Reconstructing the power system. In 1990, BiH produced 12,900
Gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity from generating plants located on its
territory. Electricity consumption was 11,822 GWh. The system comprised
13 hydropower plants with a total capacity of 2,034 megawatts (MW) and an
average output of 6,922 GWh/year, and 12 thermal power plants with a total
capacity of 1,957 MW and an output of 9,252 GWh in 1990. The thermal
power plants were brown coal and lignite fired, with the fuel coming from
mines within BiH. BiH was responsible for operating its own system and
meeting local demand. However, being part of the former Yugoslav network,
the 400 kilovolt (kV) power grid in BiH was controlled by the Yugoslav
Electric Power Industry's (JUGEL) dispatching center in Belgrade. Power
exchanges were also controlled by JUGEL.At the beginning of 1996, more
than half of generating capacity had been put out of operation because of
direct damages, destroyed transmission lines or lack of coal. Most plants
had also suffered from lack of maintenance during the war.    About 60% of
the transmission network and control system in the Federation was
seriously damaged, including transmission facilities and interconnection
lines to neighboring countries. The transmission network and control
system in RS were also heavily damaged, particularly in those areas
located close to confrontation lines. The 400 kV system in BiH was almost
completely out of operation (the main exception was the Trebinje-Podgorica
400 kV transmission line). Many distribution networks were badly damaged
in both the Federation and RS as a result of fighting and lack of
maintenance. Many transformer stations, buildings, telecommunications and
maintenance facilities and equipment were also either seriously damaged or
destroyed.Rehabilitation enabled total generation to reach 11,423 GWh in
1999 (89% of the 1990 level) and consumption within BiH to reach 9,533 GWh
in 1999 (83% of the 1990 level). However, despite these achievements,
the remaining needs are still very large and many facilities remain to be
reconstructed. Investments are also needed to improve reliability, safety
and environmental protection. The Federation and RS governments place
high priority on continued reconstruction of the power system as one of
the primary means to relaunch economic activity. IDA and other



international donors have been supporting this reconstruction, mainly
through the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project (Cr. No. 2903)
(Power 1) and the Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project (Cr. No.
3071) (Power 2). Further investments are needed to continue the post-war
reconstruction program. (ii) Improving cost recovery. All three power
enterprises were severely affected during the war by revenue constraints
arising from the inability of households as well as commercial and
industrial enterprises to pay for their electricity consumption. Revenue
collection during the war dropped to as low as 25% of invoiced amounts,
leading to severe cash deficits. Since the Dayton peace accord, the
revenue situation of the three enterprises, both in terms of tariff levels
as well as collection performance, has improved, particularly for EPBiH.
In 1999, revenue collection by EPBiH, EPM and EPRS reached    99%, 80% and
75% respectively of the amounts billed.   The collected revenue is
estimated to have covered 137%, 1309 and 1069 respectively of cash
expenses.  In 1999, total distribution losses were reduced to 12% of
electricity entering the distribution network for EPBiH and 26% for EPM
and EPRS. Of these amounts technical losses were 12 percentage points or
fewer. The rest consisted of non-technical losses, that is unbilled
consumption due to such factors as lack of meters, meter tampering or
bypassing. An adverse factor is that operating costs appear to be
excessively high because of overstaffing and possible overestimation of
depreciation. Cash operating costs of EPM have also been growing rapidly,
by over 30% in 1999.   The Elektroprivredas need to make further progress
to reach full cost recovery, including coverage of appropriate
depreciation charges. This will require progress in: (i) increasing
billing and collection, (ii) improving cost efficiency, (iii) reducing
distribution losses; and, if necessary, (iv) increasing tariff levels.
There is also a need for asset revaluation in order to ensure realistic
depreciation charges necessary for asset replacement. All three
Elektroprivredas have been implementing recommendations for improving
billing and collection and reducing distribution losses made by a recently
completed electricity tariff study.(iii) Improving tariff structures. In
1999, the average industrial electricity tariff rate of about US$ 0.06/kWh
(kilowatt hour) in BiH was close to the average in OECD Europe of US$
0.07/kWh. By contrast, the household rates of about US$ 0.05/kWh was much
lower than the OECD Europe average of US$ 0.13/kWh. The tariff study
recommended large rate increases, mainly for households, phased in over
the period 1999-2003. It also recommended the establishment of a
three-block tariff structure for households, under which the high-priced
third block would compensate for the low-priced "lifeline" first block,
and a system of vouchers to allow targeted low income consumers to pay for
their lifeline consumption of electricity. On October 1, 1999, the RS
Government raised tariff rates to about the level recommended by the
study, and gave each municipality the authority to designate 6.7% of
collected electricity revenue for the reduction of arrears on previous
electricity bills of specified consumer groups. The Federation Government
is expected to raise tariff rates for EPBiH and EPM in 2000, with the
increases being concentrated on household consumers. The strategy of the
Federation and RS Governments expected to be set out in their Power Sector
Policy Papers is to gradually remove the distortion between household and
other tariff rates, introduce lifeline tariff rates, and possibly
establish further direct assistance to needy groups. (iv) Improving power
co-ordination between EPBiH, EPM and EPRS. Since the war, power exchanges
between the different parts of BiH have been restricted because of the
-2 -



breakdown of many transmission lines and the existence of three separate
vertically-integrated power enterprises. Where before the war there was
one dispatch center for BiH, each EP has subsequently been dispatching its
own power stations for the benefit of its own consumers. For purposes of
frequency control, EPRS is synchronized with the power system of FRY,
while EPBiH and EPM are synchronized with the power system of Croatia.
However, EPBiH provides some ancillary services free-of-charge to both EPM
and EPRS. Both frequency regulation and reserve for the EPM service areas
in Central Bosnia are provided by EPBiH by means of the Jablanica
hydropower station. Similarly Jablanica provides frequency regulation for
the EPRS service areas around Prijedor, Modrica and Derventa, as well as
power supply when EPRS cannot supply itself. Initially electricity
exchanges between the Elektroprivredas were in kind and constrained so
that net trade between any pair of Elektroprivredas was always zero or
close to it (e.g., exports from one company to a service area with a power
deficit of another company were offset by imports of the same amount from
a power surplus area of the other company).    The development of
commercial trade was also hindered by difficulties in making payments
because of a poorly functioning banking system. More recently, commercial
exchanges have been initiated on a limited scale. Enhancement of power
exchanges would: (i) permit surplus power of one company to be used to
alleviate shortages of another company (caused by inadequate generation
capacity or by outages of large generating units or surges in power
demand); (ii) reduce transmission costs by allowing the most direct routes
to be used, regardless of whether these routes cross the territories of
the other companies; and (iii) reduce generating costs by permitting the
lowest cost generating units in the country to be used at each time of day
and year. A Joint Power Co-ordinating Center (ZEKC) was established in
March 1999 to co-ordinate the operation of the BiH power system in a safe,
effective and efficient manner.    Further progress towards improved power
exchanges would be demonstrated by the establishment of more commercial
trade contracts between the three companies, and a readiness by the
companies to help each other out in emergencies, and to accept the power
dispatch recommendations of ZEKC. These improvements are expected to
occur. All three Elektroprivredas have declared their support for BiH to
rejoin the European Union for the Co-ordination of Transmission of
Electricity (UCTE). (v) Power sector reform. Prior to the war, BiH had a
single vertically-integrated socially-owned power company. There are
currently three vertically-integrated companies (two in the Federation and
one in RS) serving three separate groups of consumers (Bosniacs, Croats
and Serbs). The current arrangements lack the economies of scale and
co-ordination that existed before the war. They also lack the potential
benefits of competition (lower costs and prices and greater supply quality
and reliability). Until now, although private investors have expressed
some interest, there has not been any private sector investment in the
sector. Private involvement, particularly if it comes from abroad, could
bring valuable expertise as well as new resources for investment.
However, privatization may require significant third party guarantees in
order to reduce perceived risks. The challenge for the future is to
establish clear policies for reform in the Federation and Republika
Srpska, incorporate these in electricity legislation which is in tune with
developments in the European Union, establish a regulatory framework, and
establish a power sector structure which is conducive to both the
emergence of beneficial competition and privatization. Both the Federation
and RS Governments are now preparing policies for power sector reform
-3 -



along these lines with assistance from international consultants. These
policies will be consistent with Directive 96/92 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of December 19, 1996 concerning common rules
for the internal market in electricity. This Directive establishes the
conditions for a liberalized electricity market in which power
distribution companies and at least the largest final consumers would have
the right to choose their electricity suppliers. The Federation and RS
policies are expected to provide for restructuring of the sector,
including corporatization and commercial operation of power sector
companies, access on equal terms to transmission networks, and
establishment of an independent system operator. The new policies are
also expected to provide for the early establishment of regulatory
agencies and for eventual privatization of some of the power companies.
The Entity and State Governments are simultaneously preparing Entity and
State laws, also with international assistance, that will incorporate the
new policies. (vi) Restructuring the coal mine sector in the Federation.
Investments have been carried out to enable the Federation coal mines to
meet the needs of the thermal power stations of Tuzla and Kakanj over the
next several years. In the medium term, the forecast needs of the power
stations could be met from a small number of low-cost mines. The other
mines appear to be financially and economically unviable. A coal sector
restructuring study is being carried out under Power 2, which will confirm
which mines are economically viable, recommend restructuring for the
mines, and propose appropriate measures to protect redundant coal miners
and help them find alternative employment.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to continue the post-conflict
reconstruction program in the power sector and to ensure access to
reliable, lower cost electricity, to be supplied with reduced
environmental and safety risks, and improved cost recovery by suppliers.
The component outputs contributing to this objective include: (i)
increased transmission capacity; (ii) increased distribution capacity;
(iii) improved operation of the BiH power system on an integrated basis;
(iv) establishment of a legislative and regulatory framework conducive to
competition and eventual privatization; (v) improved availability and
safety at hydropower plants; (vi) reduced pollution at thermal power
plants; and (vii) institution building through corporatization of the
power companies and operation on a commercial basis.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
- Bank involvement in the proposed project will serve as a catalyst for
securing other donor financing.- Because of its broad sector involvement,
the Bank is able to take a lead role among donors in encouraging
institutional reform and strengthening, general sector restructuring and
reform as well as helping establish overall sector reconstruction
investment priorities.- The Bank is contributing to improved co-ordination
between the Elektroprivredas and the Energy Ministries of the two Entities
by designing the project to include co-ordinated investments by all three
Elektroprivredas and by strongly encouraging improved power system
co-ordination.- Procurement in accordance with World Bank procurement
guidelines would help to minimize costs of equipment purchase and
installation.
4. Description
-4-



The project would focus on restoration of the 400 kV and other high
voltage transmission systems, especially reconstruction of damaged
substations. This would help BiH to restore the pre-war interconnections
with the other parts of former Yugoslavia and eventually to re-join the
UCTE. The project would also include a Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition (SCADA) System component to improve power dispatching and
facilitate the operation of the high voltage network within BiH on an
integrated basis. It would include investments in power distribution to
provide electricity to returning refugees and to reconstruct damaged
facilities, thereby relieving serious overloading in some areas and
enabling reduction in the high levels of technical distribution losses.
It would provide investments at selected hydropower stations to improve
safety and plant availability.    Investments at thermal power stations
would be limited to reducing pollution. Technical assistance would be
provided for (i) procurement and implementation of the physical
components; (ii) ZEKC; (iii) a survey of socially vulnerable electricity
consumers; (iv) corporatization and commercialization of the power sector
enterprises; and (v) establishment of regulatory agencies. Training would
be included for (i), (ii), (iv) and (v).As the investment needs for full
rehabilitation of the power system are still very significant, a
feasibility study was carried out by AGRA Monenco-Teshmont to evaluate
priority components and the sequence of reconstruction implementation
covering the high voltage transmission components of the BiH power
transmission system, the distribution systems of the respective
Elektroprivredas, and the safety- and availability-related rehabilitation
requirements of the Trebinje, Rama and Jablanica hydropower plants.
Priorities were established for reconstruction and rehabilitation of the
respective transmission facilities in each of the areas in accordance with
specific criteria.     The distribution components included in the proposed
scope of the Power 3 project represent only a part of the total
rehabilitation requirements of the distribution facilities. Similarly,
significant rehabilitation of the 110 kV system is required for further
strengthening and improvement of the power system of BiH. Costs were
estimated for reconstruction and rehabilitation of each component, and
contract packages established in a manner that would permit co-financier
contributions to be obtained on a packaged or individual component basis.
The economic viability of the proposed transmission, distribution and
hydro plant components was established. The Final Report was submitted by
the Consultants in January 2000.The components proposed by the AGRA
Monenco-Teshmont feasibility study have a total cost, including physical
and price contingencies, of about US$ 153,000,000 (Variant 1A). Other
principal components of the project, which were not included in the scope
of the AGRA Monenco-Teshmont feasibility study, include a SCADA and
associated telecommunication system, investments at thermal power plants
aimed at reducing pollution and technical assistance. A SCADA system,
comprising three regional control centres and an overall central dispatch
centre, together with an associated telecommunication system will be
included under the Power 3 project to permit modern integrated operation
of the BiH system. The scope of the system is being defined through a
separate feasibility study being funded by USTDA, and the interim report
is expected by the end of March 2000. The cost of the system has been
provisionally estimated at US$ 36 million. The SCADA and
telecommunication facilities required at the substations to be
rehabilitated under the Power 3 project have been included in the scope
defined by the AGRA Monenco-Teshmont study.Based on discussions with the
- 5 -



Elektroprivredas, a review of their proposals for investments in pollution
control measures, and site visits to examine the present environmental
conditions which the proposed measures would mitigate, a pollution control
investment program has been prepared for each of four thermal power
stations. In general, the proposed investments follow the Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs) prepared under the previous two power projects in
Bosnia (Power 1 and Power 2). The specific components proposed to be
financed under the IDA Credit are:EPBiHTransmission Lines (IDA Financing
US$ 10.51)Reconstruction of war damage, including right-of-way clearing,
replacement of damaged parts of existing towers, construction of new
towers to replace destroyed ones, dismantling of damaged insulators,
hardware and conductors and ground wires, and stringing, along the
following lines:1) TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Mostar 4 (US$ 4.08 million).2)
TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Sarajevo 20 (US$ 0.81 million).3) TL 400 kV Mostar
4 - Gacko (US$ 1.11 million).4) TL 400 kV Visegrad - Tuzla (US$ 1.39
million).5) TL 400 kV Ugljevik - Ernestinovo (US$ 1.20 million).6) TL 220
kV Jajce - Mraclin (US$ 0.40 million).7) TL 220 kV Tuzla - Gradacac -
Djakovo (US$ 0.14 million).8) TL 110 kV Mostar - Nevesinje (US$ 1.38
million).EPMTransmission Lines (IDA Financing US$ 3.78
million)Reconstruction of war damage, including right-of-way clearing,
replacement of damaged parts of existing towers, construction of new
towers to replace destroyed ones, dismantling of damaged insulators,
hardware and conductors and ground wires, and stringing, along the
following lines:1) TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Mostar 4 (US$ 0.71 million). 2)
TL 400 kV Mostar 4 - Gacko (US$ 1.10 million).     3) TL 400 kV Ugljevik -
Ernestinovo (US$ 0.84 million).    4) TL 220 kV Jajce - Mraclin (US$ 0. 07
million).5) TL 220 kV Kakanj - Prijedor (US$ 1.06 million).Substations
(IDA Financing US$ 3.93 million)1) TS 220/110/35 kV Jajce 2 (US$ 2.05
million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment including
replacement of 220 kV and 110 kV circuit breakers, 220 kV and 110 kV
busbar disconnectors, 220 kV and 110 kV line disconnectors, 110 kV
instrument transformers, arresters, line traps and secondary equipment
comprising protective relays, control, metering, fault recording equipment
(including breaker fail protection) and communication equipment.2) TS 220
kV Mostar 3 (US$ 1.88 million): Rehabilitation of primary electrical
equipment including replacement of 220 kV circuit breakers, 220 kV busbar
disconnectors, 220 kV line disconnectors, line traps and secondary
equipment comprising protective relays, control, metering, fault recording
equipment (including breaker fail protection) and communication
equipment.Technical Assistance Component (IDA Financing US$ 1.00
million)1) Technical assistance to the PIU of EPM for procurement and
monitoring of implementation (US$ 1 million).EPRSTransmission Lines (IDA
Financing US$ 9.78 million)Reconstruction of war damage, including
right-of-way clearing, replacement of damaged parts of existing towers,
construction of new towers to replace destroyed ones, dismantling of
damaged insulators, hardware and conductors and ground wires, and
stringing, along the following lines:1) TL 400 kV Visegrad - Tuzla (US$
2.09 million).    2) TL 400 kV Mostar 4 - Gacko (US$ 1.36 million). 3) TL
400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Sarajevo 20 (US$ 0.79 million).     4) TL 400 kV
Ugljevik - Ernestinovo (US$ 1.73 million).     5) TL 220 kV Jajce - Prijedor
(US$ 0.55 million).   6) TL 220 kV Prijedor - Sisak (US$ 0.63 million).
7) TL 220 kV Tuzla - Gradacac - Djakovo (US$ 0.97 million). 8) TL 110 kV
Mostar - Nevesinje (US$ 1.55 million).9) TL 220 kV Dubrovnik- Trebinje
(US$ 0.11 million).Technical Assistance Component (IDA Financing US$ 1.00
million)1) Technical assistance to the PIU of EPRS for procurement and
- 6 -



monitoring of implementation (US$ 1 million).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0
IBRD
IDA                     30
OTHER                    166.2
BENEFICIARIES           28
Total Project Cost       224.2
6. Implementation
Financing PlanOf a total project cost of US$ 224.2 million, it is proposed
that IDA would provide a Credit in the amount of US$ 30 million. An
additional US$ 28.0 million would be provided by the three
Elektroprivredas out of their own internally-generated funds. The
remaining financing required (US$ 166.2 million) would be provided by
cofinanciers through parallel financing arrangements, with each donor
responsible for separate components. As a result, possible delays in
implementation of one donor's component would generally cause little or no
delay in implementation of other donors' components. The loan amounts and
terms of the cofinanciers would be confirmed during the appraisal
mission. A reasonably firm project financing plan would need to be
confirmed prior to negotiations of the IDA Credit.Lending ArrangementsThe
IDA Credit would be lent to Bosnia and Herzegovina for 35 years with a 10
year grace period and at the standard IDA service charge. The funds would
be onlent through the Federation Government to EPBiH and EPM and through
the Government of Republika Srpska to EPRS.ImplementationThe proposed
project would be expected to be completed within the three-year period
October 1, 2000 - September 30, 2003. Management of all aspects of
project implementation, except those to be carried out by the Federation
and RS Governments (i.e., sector reform), would be carried out by EPBiH,
EPM and EPRS, who would be responsible for execution of their respective
parts. The PIUs responsible for implementation of Power 2 would continue
for the proposed project. The Financial Management Review and Procurement
Capacity Assessment have identified the need for strengthening each of the
Elektroprivreda's PIUs with qualified financial and procurement staff.
In addition, international consultants would work together with the PIUs
of EPM and EPRS as needed, during project implementation. The foreign
consultants would be employed to assist with procurement and would provide
in-house training to the Elektroprivredas' procurement staff. An
international consultant would also be hired to carry out all the
procurement activities for the rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of the
inter-Elektroprivreda transmission lines included in the project.
ProcurementA detailed procurement plan, along with project procurement
elements, their estimated costs, bidding methods, packaging and estimated
schedules would be developed during the appraisal mission. Supervision
and Monitoring The assessments carried out by the Bank show that the
Elektroprivredas are capable of implementing the proposed project with the
support of foreign consultants, as appropriate. As this is a complex
project with a major reform component, three responsible implementing
agencies and several cofinanciers, a significant supervision effort would
be required. Quarterly progress reports would be provided by the
implementing agencies. The Bank would carry out a mid-term review of the
project no later than June 30, 2002. In addition to the topics covered
-7 -



under the PMRs, the mid-term review would include an in-depth review of
the economic viability of the project components, based on actual costs
and benefits achieved to-date, and of the overall institutional and
financial performance of the Elektroprivredas. Based on the outcome of
the mid-term review, measures would be taken to ensure the efficient
completion of the project. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
would be prepared by the Association with inputs from the Elektroprivredas
not later than six months after completion of the project. The ICR would
evaluate how well the objectives of the project have been met, the overall
performance of the project, the performance of the Elektroprivredas and
lessons learned.
7. Sustainability
Factors critical for sustainability include: (i) continued political
stability; (ii) continued macroeconomic progress in both Entities, which
is needed to restore consumers' ability to pay for electricity; (iii)
satisfactory financial performance of the three Elektroprivredas; (iv)
satisfactory co-ordination between the enterprises to operate the BiH
power system as a whole; and (v) steady progress towards establishing a
strong regulatory framework, a competitive power market, and an
environment that encourages private investment in the power sector. A
further contributor to sustainability would be restoration of 400 kV
transmission facilities in neighboring countries (especially
reconstruction of the Ernestinovo substation and associated transmission
lines). At this time, the prospect for sustainability of Power 3 is
likely.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project would build on the successful performance of Power 1 and Power
2. One point already realized and taken into account is that, since the
expected international financing would cover only part of the large
remaining reconstruction needs, it is essential to obtain the agreement of
all the project implementing agencies on the investments to be included
under the project and the allocation of the project between the three
Elektroprivredas. An important contribution of the main feasibility study
was to lay the basis for this agreement, which was tentatively reached
during the preappraisal mission and is subject to the necessary financing
being found. A second lesson is the importance of ensuring the timely
availability of cofinancing. A donors' meeting was held following the
preappraisal mission in December 1999. Preliminary commitments by donors
are expected to be made by March 2000. If these are insufficient to cover
the foreign financing needs the project scope will be adjusted down to
reflect the likely financing before negotiations. A third lesson is the
importance of securing financing early for technical assistance in order
to avoid delays in project components that depend on prior completion of
that technical assistance. A fourth lesson is the importance of having
strong, well-staffed PIUs. The PIUs being used for Power 2 would be
expected to continue under Power 3 and technical assistance would be
provided where necessary. Special emphasis is being given to establishing
sound project procurement and financial management systems within the
PIUs. A fifth lesson is that progress towards power sector co-ordination
and reform requires patience and an active role by the Bank because of the
need to gain the agreement of the implementing agencies and the Entity
Governments under the existing political climate. The project would
benefit from activities under previous projects in an additional way. The
- 8 -



environmental components included under the project were based partly on
the Environmental Management Plans prepared under Power 1 and Power 2. A
lesson learned from experience in other countries in the Europe and
Central Asia region is the desirability of minimizing barter trade
arrangements. The project would contribute to this goal by emphasizing
measures to strengthen the financial viability of the Elektroprivredas and
encouraging actions towards corporatization and operation on a commercial
basis. Agreement would also be sought on specific actions such as
increasing the proportion of bills to be paid in cash for coal purchases
by EPBiH.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   Transmission linesThe major issue associated with
the restoration of the transmission system is to assure that the system
being restored is safe with respect to exposure of local residents to
electromagnetic radiation by establishing that the levels are within
acceptable limits (BiH, EU standards, etc.) during operation. Other issues
are associated with movement of men, materials, and equipment during
construction (noise, dust) and noise and communication interferences
during operation.Transmission substationsThe major issue is the possible
presence of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in the transformers or other
equipment in the substations (e.g. condensers) and, if found, the manner
in which the PCBs will be disposed of. Minor issues include establishing
that exposure of local residents to electromagnetic radiation and noise
from restored substations is within acceptable limits (BiH, EU standards,
etc.). Additionally, if any of the existing transformers have experienced
leaks, the possibility of existing soil and/or groundwater contamination
will be investigated.DistributionA minor issue is associated with
disruption to transport, communications, etc. during the construction
phase.Thermal Power StationsSince the objective is to reduce pollution,
there should be no major negative environmental issues.Hydropower
StationsSince the objective is to rehabilitate existing plants in order to
improve safety and availability, there should be no negative environmental
issues.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mr. Iftikhar Khalil
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
-9-



not be necessarily included in the final project.
There are three implementing agencies for the project,
EPBiH, EPM and EPRS. EPBiH's address is given on the first page. The addresses of the
other agencies are as follows:
Other Agency(ies):Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina
Address:   Vilsonovo Setaliste 20, 71000 Sarajevo,
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact
Person:    Mr. Meho Obradovic, General Manager
Tel: 387 71 47 24 81
Fax: 387 71 44 59 11
Elektroprivreda Mostar (EPM)
Address: Dr. Mile Budaka 106A, Mostar,
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact
Person: Mr. Matan Zaric, General Manager
Tel: 387 88 32 32 16
Fax: 387 88 31 08 47
Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska (EPRS)
Address: Trebinje, Republika
Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Slobodan Mrdic,
General Manager
Tel: 381 89 24 969
Fax: 381 89 24 970
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 24, 2000.
- 10 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



