Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3534 BOS
RS/EPRS Project Agreement
(Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
AND
ELEKTROPRIVREDA REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Dated October 19, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3534 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of October 19, 2001, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association), REPUBLIKA SRPSKA (RS), and ELEKTROPRIVREDA REPUBLIKA 
SRPSKA (EPRS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty six 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,400,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that RS/EPRS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and RS/EPRS part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to EPRS on terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS RS/EPRS in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) RS/EPRS declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and RS/EPRS shall otherwise agree, RS/EPRS shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the PIP and the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. RS/EPRS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods, works and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the RS/EPRS Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. RS/EPRS shall duly perform all its obligations under the RS/EPRS 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, RS/EPRS 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, 
amending, abrogating or waiving the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) RS/EPRS shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
RS/EPRS shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by RS/EPRS of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPRS
Section 3.01. EPRS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental, engineering and 
technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EPRS shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound environmental, 
engineering, financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. EPRS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EPRS shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format 
acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures in connection with the carrying out of the Project. 
(b)
EPRS shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts, financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and cash 
flow for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
Page  3
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, EPRS shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) 
of said Section 4.01 in order to, not later than August 15, 2002, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for Part A 
of the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A and Part B of 
the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, EPRS shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later that forty-five (45) days after 
the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPRS shall 
produce, for each fiscal year after the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2001, funds 
from internal sources equivalent to not less than forty percent (40%) of the annual 
average of its capital expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred, for the 
current, the previous fiscal year and subsequent fiscal year.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section the term "capital expenditures" means 
all expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations.
(c)
Before October 15 in each of their fiscal years, commencing in the 
calendar year 2001, EPRS shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by EPRS and 
satisfactory to the Association, review whether they would meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and 
shall furnish to the Association the results of each such review upon its completion.
(d)
If any such review shows that EPRS would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the EPRS fiscal year covered by such review, EPRS shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such requirements.
(e)
For the purpose of this Section:
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
Page  4
(A)
the sum of revenue from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and 
other non-cash operating charges), debt service 
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree EPRS shall not 
incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of EPRS, 
shows that its estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt 
to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its estimated debt service requirements in 
such year on all of its debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness maturing by its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payment if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by EPRS 
not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt 
in question, which both the Association and EPRS accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Association has notified EPRS of 
its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
Page  5
condition or future operating results of EPRS.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. (a)
EPRS and the Association shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views with regard to the EPRS’ electricity pricing 
policies, including the structure and level of electricity prices, and their plans in 
respect of the overall development of the electricity sector.
(b)
EPRS agrees, as long as it exercises control over the setting of prices, 
to establish price levels and structure for electricity which would: (i) allow EPRS 
under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity utilization, 
to meet their financial obligations and their other obligations under this Agreement 
and make a reasonable contribution to future investment for expansion of capacity; 
(ii) be reasonably competitive with prices for electricity in other major countries; 
(iii) subject to the achievement of objectives (i) and (ii) above, reflect the 
relative costs of supply to the different consumer groups; and (iv) take into account 
the results of the social assessment study to mitigate the impact on the vulnerable 
segments of society.
Section 4.06. EPRS shall by June 30, 2002, have its assets revalued based on an 
assessment and depreciation policies reviewed by qualified independent organizations 
satisfactory to the Association in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association.
Section 4.07. The RS shall take all measures necessary to enable EPRS to carry 
out their obligations under this Article.
Section 4.08. EPRS shall review with the Association, by October 15 of each year 
commencing in calendar year 2001, their program of proposed capital expenditures for 
the following five years, and take the Association’s views into consideration in 
finalizing said program.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
RS/EPRS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify RS/EPRS 
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, facsimile or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be 
Page  6
given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses 
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
     Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
48423 (MCI) or     
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Republika Srpska:
Republika Srpska Ministry of Finance
Vuka Karadzica 4
78000 Banja Luka, Republika Srpska
Bosnia and Herzegovina
     Facsimile:
     387 2 18 634
For Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska:
Elektoprivreda Republika Srpska
Trebinje
Republika Srpska
Bosnia and Herzegovina
     Facsimile:
     387 89(59) 260 071
Section 6.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RS 
or by RS on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by its Ministry of Finance, or by such other person or persons as RS 
shall designate in writing, and RS shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
(b)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EPRS or by EPRS on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its General Manager, or by such other person or persons as EPRS shall 
designate in writing, and EPRS shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Ingram
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Page  7
By /s/ Mirko Sarovic
Authorized Representative
ELEKTROPRIVREDA REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
By /s/ Svetozar Acimovic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
The RS/EPRS shall, at least until the completion of the Project, maintain the 
EPRS PIU, with structures, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association.
2. 
The RS shall:
(a)
undertake and complete by December 31, 2001, a comprehensive study of the 
sequence, extent and timing of the privatization of EPRS, in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association and by consultants acceptable to the 
Association; and
(b)
develop and agree with the Association by February 28, 2002, a detailed 
privatization action plan including an implementation schedule, followed by 
implementation of the agreed action plan, with no prior privatization of EPRS taking 
place other than the purchase with vouchers of warrants under conditions acceptable to 
the Association. These warrants will entitle the bearer to purchase common shares upon 
the conversion of the constituent enterprises of EPRS into joint stock companies, with 
this conversion only taking place after the action plan has been agreed upon and in 
strict accordance with that plan.
3.
The RS shall put into effect power sector restructuring and regulatory reform 
actions in accordance with the Policy Statement adopted by the RS, including:
(a)
establishment by December 31, 2001, of an independent RS Energy 
Regulatory Commission;
(b)
establishment by December 31, 2001, of an independent State Energy 
Regulatory Commission; and
(c)
establishment by March 31, 2002, with the Federation, of an Independent 
System Operator.
4.
EPRS shall:
(a)
reduce and maintain power distribution losses to below 19% in calendar 
year 2002, 16% in 2003, and 12% in calendar year 2004 of electricity entering the 
distribution system;
(b)
on rehabilitation of the high voltage transmission network under the 
Project, operate the power system, jointly with EPBiH and EPHZHB, as a single control 
area according to the UCTE rules within the UCTE Control Block, as defined in the UCTE 
rules, covering the territories of Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, and 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the event that the system of the Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia (FRY) remains disconnected from the UCTE system, selected EPRS generating 
units could be isolated, if desired by EPRS, from the rest of the system in order to 
sell power to the FRY network; 
(c)
revise, jointly with EPBiH and EPHZHB, the ZEKC Book of Rules and the 
Grid Code to bring them into conformity with the policy statement and to remove 
discrepancies and overlaps between these two documents;
(d)
by December 31, 2001, furnish to the Association for its review and 
approval, a plan and schedule covering the additional resources to be provided to ZEKC 
to enable it to perform the functions assigned to it under the November 3, 1998 
Page  8
agreement to establish ZEKC and to enable it to function as the Independent System 
Operator, and implement the plan as set forth in the said schedule;
(e)
by June 30, 2002, have its assets revalued and depreciation policies 
reviewed by qualified independent organizations acceptable to the Association;
(f)
by December 31, 2003, establish a management information system, 
including a financial management system based on international accounting standards, 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(g)
by December 31, 2001, furnish and agree with the Association, on revised 
implementation schedule for an environmental management plan and immediately 
thereafter implement the plan in accordance with said schedule.
5.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "environmental management plan" means an instrument that details 
(a) the measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of a project to 
eliminate or offset adverse environmental impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable 
levels; and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures;
(b)
the term "SCADA system" means a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition 
system;
(c)
the term "ZEKC Book of Rules" means the by-laws governing the operations 
of ZEKC; and
(d)
the term "Grid Code" means the current edition of the technical 
regulations governing the use of the transmission network in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
