Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3534 BOS
Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement
(Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
AND
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
AND
ELEKTROPRIVREDA OF CROATIAN COMMUNITY OF 
HERZEG-BOSNIA
Dated October 19, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3534 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of October 19, 2001, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the 
Federation), ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (EPBiH) and ELEKTROPRIVREDA OF 
CROATIAN COMMUNITY OF HERZEG-BOSNIA (EPHZHB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty six 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,400,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that the Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Federation and EPBiH part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to EPBiH on terms and conditions 
set forth in said Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and
(C)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Federation and EPHZHB part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under 
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to EPHZHB on terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
WHEREAS the Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB declare their commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, EPBiH shall carry out Part A of the Project, and EPHZHB 
shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall otherwise 
agree, the Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the PIP and the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall carry out the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB 
Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall duly perform all their 
obligations under the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Credit Agreement and the 
Federation/EPHZHB Subsidiary Credit Agreement. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the 
Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Credit Agreement, or the Federation/EPHZHB Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) The Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Credit Agreement or the Federation/EPHZHB 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
The Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the 
Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB of their respective obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Credit Agreement and the Federation/EPHZHB 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPBiH and EPHZHB 
Section 3.01. EPBiH and EPHZHB shall each carry on its operations and conduct 
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental, 
engineering and technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EPBiH and EPHZHB shall each at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
environmental, engineering, financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. EPBiH and EPHZHB shall each take out and maintain with responsible 
Page  3
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EPBiH and EPHZHB shall each establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
in a format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures in connection with the carrying out of the Project. 
(b)
EPBiH and EPHZHB shall each:
(i)
have its records, accounts, financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and cash 
flow for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall each carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable 
to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred 
to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to, not later than August 15, 2002, 
or such later date as the Association shall agree, prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for Part A 
of the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A and Part B of 
the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall each prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later that 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPBiH and 
EPHZHB shall each produce, for each fiscal year after the fiscal year ending on 
December 31, 2001, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than forty 
percent (40%) of the annual average of its capital expenditures incurred or expected 
to be incurred, for the current, the previous fiscal year and subsequent fiscal year.
Page  4
(b)
For the purposes of this Section the term "capital expenditures" means 
all expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations.
(c)
Before October 15 in each of their fiscal years, commencing in the 
calendar year 2001, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by 
EPBiH and EPHZHB, respectively, and satisfactory to the Association, review whether 
they would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year 
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of 
each such review upon its completion.
(d)
If any such review shows that EPBiH or EPHZHB would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the EPBiH’s and EPHZHB’s respective fiscal 
years covered by such review, EPBiH and EPHZHB shall promptly take all necessary 
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its 
prices) in order to meet such requirements.
(e)
For the purpose of this Section:
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenue from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and 
other non-cash operating charges), debt service 
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPBiH and 
EPHZHB shall each not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and 
expenditures of EPBiH or EPHZHB, as the case may be, shows that its estimated net 
revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at 
least 1.5 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its 
debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness maturing by its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
Page  5
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payment if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by EPBiH 
or EPHZHB, as the case may be, not earlier than twelve months 
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the 
Association and EPBiH or the Association and EPHZHB, as the case 
may be, accept as reasonable and as to which the Association has 
notified EPBiH or EPHZHB, as the case may be, of its 
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of EPBiH or EPHZHB, as the 
case may be.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) EPBiH and EPHZHB and the Association shall, from time to time, 
at the request of either party, exchange views with regard to the EPBiH’s or EPHZHB’s 
electricity pricing policies, including the structure and level of electricity prices, 
and their plans in respect of the overall development of the electricity sector.
(b)
EPBiH and EPHZHB agree, as long as they exercise control over the setting 
of prices, to establish price levels and structure for electricity which would: (i) 
allow EPBiH and EPHZHB, as the case may be, under conditions of efficient operation at 
reasonable levels of capacity utilization, to meet their financial obligations and 
their other obligations under this Agreement and make a reasonable contribution to 
future investment for expansion of capacity; (ii) be reasonably competitive with 
prices for electricity in other major countries; (iii) subject to the achievement of 
objectives (i) and (ii) above, reflect the relative costs of supply to the different 
consumer groups; and (iv) take into account the results of the social assessment study 
to mitigate the impact on the vulnerable segments of society.
Section 4.06. EPBiH and EPHZHB shall by June 30, 2002, each have its assets 
revalued and depreciation policies reviewed by qualified independent organizations 
satisfactory to the Association in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association.
Section 4.07. The Federation shall take all measures necessary to enable EPBiH 
and EPHZHB to carry out their obligations in this Article.
Section 4.08. EPBiH and EPHZHB shall review with the Association, by October 15 
of each year commencing in calendar year 2001, their program of proposed capital 
expenditures for the following five years, and take the Association’s views into 
consideration in finalizing said program.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Page  6
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the 
Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, facsimile or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be 
given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses 
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Federation:
Federation Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387 71 203 
152
For the Elektorprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina:
Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina
EPBiH
Vilsonovo Setaliste 20
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387 71 654 
266
For Elektroprivreda of Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia:
Elektroprivreda of Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia
Ul. Mile Budaka 106
Page  7
88000 Mostar
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387 88 317 
157
Section 6.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the 
Federation or by the Federation on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other 
person or persons as the Federation shall designate in writing, and the Federation 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
(b)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EPBiH or by EPBiH on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its General Manager, or by such other person or persons as EPBiH shall 
designate in writing, and EPBiH shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
(c)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EPHZHB or by EPHZHB on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its General Manager, or by such other person or persons as EPHZHB shall 
designate in writing, and EPHZHB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Ingram
Authorized Representative
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
      By /s/ Hasan Becirovic
Authorized Representative
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Enver Kreso
Authorized Representative
ELEKTROPRIVREDA OF CROATIAN COMMUNITY OF HERZEG-BOSNIA
      By /s/ Matan Zaric
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
Implementation Program
1.
The Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB shall, at least until the completion of the Project, 
maintain the Federation PIU, the EPBiH PIU and the EPHZHB PIU, respectively, with 
structures, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Federation shall:
(a) 
undertake and complete by December 31, 2001, a comprehensive study of the 
sequence, extent and timing of the restructuring and privatization of EPBiH and 
EPHZHB, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association and by 
consultants acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
develop and agree with the Association by February 28, 2002, a detailed 
restructuring and privatization action plan including an implementation schedule, 
followed by implementation of the agreed action plan, with no prior restructuring and 
privatization of EPBiH and EPHZHB taking place.
3. 
The Federation shall put into effect power sector restructuring and regulatory 
reform actions in accordance with the Policy Statement adopted by the Federation, 
including:
(a)
establishment by December 31, 2001 of an independent Federation Energy 
Regulatory Commission;
(b)
establishment by December 31, 2001 of an independent State Energy 
Regulatory Commission; and
(c)
establishment by March 31, 2002 of an Independent System Operator.
4.
EPBiH shall:
(a)
maintain power distribution losses for the duration of the Project below 
12% of electricity entering the distribution system;
(b)
on rehabilitation of the high voltage transmission network under the 
Project, operate the power system, jointly with EPHZHB and EPRS, as a single control 
area according to the UCTE rules within the UCTE Control Block covering the 
territories of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, and Bosnia and 
Herzegovina.  In the event that the system of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) 
remains disconnected from the UCTE system, selected EPRS generating units could be 
isolated, if desired by EPRS, from the rest of the system in order to sell power to 
the FRY network; 
(c)
revise, jointly with EPHZHB and EPRS, the ZEKC Book of Rules and the Grid 
Code to bring them into conformity with the policy statements and to remove 
discrepancies and overlaps between these two documents;
(d)
by December 31, 2001, furnish to the Association for its review and 
approval, a plan and schedule covering the additional resources to be provided to ZEKC 
to enable it to perform the functions assigned to it under the November 3, 1998 
agreement to establish ZEKC and to enable it to function as the Independent System 
Operator, and implement the plan as set forth in the said schedule;
(e)
by June 30, 2002, have their assets revalued and depreciation policies 
reviewed by qualified independent organizations acceptable to the Association;
(f)
by December 31, 2003, establish a management information system, 
including a financial management system based on international accounting standards, 
satisfactory to the Association;
(g)
by December 31, 2001, furnish and agree with the Association, a revised 
implementation schedule for an environmental management plan and immediately 
thereafter implement the plan in accordance with said schedule; and
(h)
make cash payments to the Kreka-Durdjevik, Banovici, Kakanj, Breza and 
Zenica Coal Mines, and other coal mines, of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the 
value of coal consumed each month, starting January 1, 2002, and attaining one hundred 
percent (100%) cash payment by December 31, 2002.
5.
EPHZHB shall:
Page  9
(a)
reduce and maintain power distribution losses to below 19% in calendar 
year 2002, 16% in 2003, and 12% in calendar year 2004 of electricity entering the 
distribution system;
(b)
on rehabilitation of the high voltage network under the Project, operate 
the power system, jointly with EPBiH and EPRS, as a single control area according to 
the UCTE rules, within the UCTE Control Block, as defined in the UCTE rules, covering 
the territories of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, and Bosnia and 
Herzegovina.  In the event that the system of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) 
remains disconnected from the UCTE system, selected EPRS generating units could be 
isolated, if desired by EPRS, from the rest of the system in order to sell power to 
the FRY network; 
(c)
revise, jointly with EPBiH and EPRS, the ZEKC Book of Rules and the Grid 
Code to bring them into conformity with the Policy Statement and to remove 
discrepancies and overlaps between these two documents;
(d)
by December 31, 2001, furnish to the Association for its review and 
approval, a plan and schedule covering the additional resources to be provided to ZEKC 
to enable it to perform the functions assigned to it under the November 3, 1998 
agreement to establish ZEKC and to enable it to function as the Independent System 
Operator, and implement the plan as set forth in the said schedule;
(e)
by June 30, 2002, have its assets revalued and depreciation policies 
reviewed by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(f)
by December 31, 2003, establish a management information system, 
including a financial management system based on international accounting standards, 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(g)
furnish and agree with the Association by December 31, 2001, a revised 
implementation schedule for the environmental management plan and immediately 
thereafter implement the plan in accordance with the schedule.
6.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "environmental management plan" means an instrument that details 
(a) the measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of a project to 
eliminate or offset adverse environmental impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable 
levels; and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures;
(b)
the term "SCADA system" means a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition 
system;
(c)
the term "ZEKC Book of Rules" means the by-laws governing the operations 
of ZEKC; and
(d)
the term "Grid Code" means the current edition of the technical 
regulations governing the use of the transmission network in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
