Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3534-BOS 
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 19, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3534-BOS      
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of October 19, 2001, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the 
Borrower or BiH) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Federation of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina (the Federation) through Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina (EPBiH) 
with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to EPBiH a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement;
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Federation through 
Elektroprivreda of Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia (EPHZHB) with the Borrower’s 
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to EPHZHB 
a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
Part C of the Project will be carried out by Republika Srpska (RS) 
through Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska (EPRS) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to EPRS a portion of the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(E)
In order to finance Part D of the Project, the Borrower intends to enter 
into agreements (the Cofinancing Agreements) with other external agencies, providing 
the Borrower with a total amount (the Cofinancing Amount) equivalent to about 
Page  2
$175,100,000; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS Project 
Agreement, of even date herewith between the Association and Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB 
and between the Association and RS/EPRS, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means, in respect of the Special Account for Part A 
of the Project, Categories (1)(a) and (3)(a) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; in respect of the Special Account for Part B of the 
Project, Categories (1)(b), (2) and (3)(b) set forth in said table; and in respect of 
the Special Account for Part C of the Project, Categories (1)(c) and (3)(c) set forth 
in said table;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means, in respect of the Special Account for Part 
A of the Project, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 
2.02.(a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories; 
in respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project, the expenditures for 
goods and services referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to said Special 
Account’s respective Eligible Categories; and in respect of the Special Account for 
Part C of the Project, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 
2.02(a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories;
(c)
"EPBiH" means Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina, a legal entity 
established pursuant to its Charter and existing under the laws of the Federation, and 
includes any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Association;
(d)
"EPBiH PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit as referred to in 
paragraph 1 in Schedule 1 of the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement;
(e)
"EPHZHB" means Elektroprivreda of Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia, a 
legal entity established pursuant to its Charter and existing under the laws of the 
Federation, and includes any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the 
Association;
Page  3
(f)
"EPHZHB PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit as referred to in 
paragraph 1 in Schedule 1 of the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement;
(g)
"EPRS" means Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska, a legal entity established 
pursuant to its Charter and existing under the laws of RS, and includes any successor 
or successors thereto acceptable to the Association;
(h)
"EPRS PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit as referred to in 
paragraph 1 in Schedule 1 of the RS/EPRS Project Agreement;
(i)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(j)
"Federation PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred to in 
paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement;
(k)
"Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered or entered into between the Borrower and Federation/EPBiH pursuant to Section 
3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
(l)
"Federation/EPHZHB Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered or entered into between the Borrower and Federation/EPHZHB pursuant to Section 
3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Federation/EPHZHB Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
(m)
"Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement" means the agreement between 
the Association and Federation, EPBiH and EPHZHB, of even date herewith, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement;
(n)
"Independent System Operator" means an operator responsible for 
coordinating the operation of the transmission network on the territory of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina and ensuring stability, by fulfilling the functions described to it in the 
electricity and policy statements adopted by the Federation and RS on May 5, 2000 and 
April 20, 2000, respectively;
(o)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan for the Project, dated April 
30, 2001, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Borrower and the Association;
(p)
"Policy Statements" means the electricity policy statements adopted by 
the Federation and RS on May 5, 2000 and April 20, 2000, respectively, and amended on 
May 25, 2000 and October 2, 2000, respectively, as they may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association;
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02(b) of the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement and RS/EPRS Project 
Agreement;
(r)
"RS/EPRS Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and RS/EPRS, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the RS/EPRS Project 
Agreement;
(s)
"RS/EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
or entered into between the Borrower and RS/EPRS pursuant to Section 3.01(d) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
(t)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(u)
"Subsidiary Credits" means the credits made pursuant to the Subsidiary 
Credit Agreements;
(v)
"Sub-Credits" means the credits to be made out of the proceeds of the 
Subsidiary Credits provided to EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS under respective Subsidiary 
Credit Agreements; and
(w)
"ZEKC" means the Joint Power Coordination Center established on the basis 
Page  4
of an agreement signed by EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS on November 3, 1998.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty six million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2011, and ending May 1, 2036.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2021, shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
Page  5
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the loan/grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB and RS/EPRS to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS Project 
Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB and 
RS/EPRS therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all actions, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB and RS/EPRS, to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
For the purpose of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall relend a 
portion of the proceeds of the Credit amounting to Dollars equivalent to nine million 
eight hundred and twenty seven thousand four hundred Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
9,827,400) to the Federation and the Federation shall relend said proceeds of the 
Credit to EPBiH under a Subsidiary Credit Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, Federation and EPBiH under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such 
terms and conditions shall include the following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the Sub-Credit shall be repaid by the 
EPBiH to the Federation in Deutsche Marks or in such other 
currency as may be agreed upon between the Federation and the 
EPBiH in equal semi-annual installments over twenty years, 
including a grace period of five years; and the principal amount 
of the Subsidiary Credit shall be repaid by the Federation to the 
Borrower in Deutsche Marks or in such other currency as may be 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Federation in accordance 
with the provision of Section 2.07(a) of this Agreement; and
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit repayable by the 
Federation and the principle amount of the Sub-Credit repayable by 
EPBiH shall each be the equivalent in Deutsche Marks or in any 
such other currency as may be selected under paragraph (i) above 
(determined as of the date, or respective dates of repayment) of 
the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit 
Account on account of the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement; 
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 
Sub-Credit at a rate equal to the rate of LIBOR plus three-quarter 
of one percent (0.75%). For purpose of this subparagraph the term 
"LIBOR" means the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars; and 
(iv)
interest shall be charged at the rate of three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
(c)
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall relend a 
portion of the proceeds of the Credit amounting to Dollars equivalent to six million 
Page  6
nine hundred sixty five thousand three hundred Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,965,300) 
to the Federation and the Federation shall relend said proceeds of the Credit to 
EPHZHB under a Subsidiary Credit Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, 
Federation and EPHZHB under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the Sub-Credit shall be repaid by the 
EPHZHB to the Federation in Deutsche Marks or in such other 
currency as may be agreed upon between the Federation and the 
EPHZHB in equal semi-annual installments over twenty years, 
including a grace period of five (5) years; and the principal 
amount of the Subsidiary Credit shall be repaid by the Federation 
to the Borrower in Deutsche Marks or in such other currency as may 
be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Federation in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(a) of this 
Agreement; 
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit repayable by the 
Federation and the principal amount of the Sub-Credit repayable by 
EPHZHB shall each be the equivalent in Deutsche Marks or in any 
such other currency as may be selected under paragraph (i) above 
(determined as of the date, or respective dates of repayment) of 
the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit 
Account on account of the Federation/EPHZHB Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement; and
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 
Sub-Credit at a rate equal to the rate of LIBOR plus three-quarter 
of one percent (0.75%).  For purpose of this subparagraph the term 
"LIBOR" means the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars; and
(iv)
interest shall be charged at the rate of three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
(d)
For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall relend the 
proceeds of the Credit amounting to Dollars equivalent to nine million six hundred and 
seven thousand three hundred Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,607,300) to RS and RS shall 
relend said proceeds of the Credit to EPRS under a Subsidiary Credit Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower, RS and EPRS under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association.  Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, such terms and conditions shall include the following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the Sub-Credit shall be repaid by EPRS to 
RS in Deutsche Marks or in such other currency as may be agreed 
upon between RS and EPRS in equal semi-annual installments over 
twenty years, including a grace period of five years; and the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary credit shall be repaid by RS to 
the Borrower in Deutsche Marks or in such other currency as may be 
agreed upon between the Borrower and RS in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07(a) of this Agreement; 
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit repayable by RS and 
the principal amount of the Sub-Credit repayable by EPRS shall 
each be the equivalent in Deutsche Marks or in any such other 
currency as may be selected under paragraph (i) above (determined 
as of the date, or respective dates of repayment) of the value of 
the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account on 
account of the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement; 
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 
Sub-Credit at a rate equal to the rate of LIBOR plus three-quarter 
of one percent (0.75%).  For purpose of this subparagraph the term 
"LIBOR" means the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars; and
(iv)
interest shall be charged at the rate of three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  7
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, services and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B 
of the Project shall be carried out by the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB, and in respect of 
Part C of the Project shall be carried out by RS/EPRS, pursuant to Section 2.02. of 
the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS Project Agreement.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the PIP, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section, including those for the Special Accounts and project 
accounts, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  8
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Federation or EPBiH or EPHZHB shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Federation or EPBiH or EPHZHB will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement.
(c)
RS or EPRS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
RS/EPRS Project Agreement.
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that RS or EPRS will be able to perform its obligations under the 
RS/EPRS Project Agreement.
(e)
The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by June 
30, 2002, or such later date or dates as the Association may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (f)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph (f)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Page  9
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Credit Agreement, the Federation/EPHZHB 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement and the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement have been 
executed on behalf of the parties thereto; 
(b)
auditors have been appointed pursuant to and in accordance with Section 
4.01(b) of this Agreement and Section 4.01(b) of the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project 
Agreement and the RS/EPRS Project Agreement; and
(c)
the EPBiH PIU, EPHZHB PIU and the EPRS PIU have appointed a procurement 
officer acceptable to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that EPBiH is a legal entity duly formed pursuant to its Charter and 
validly existing under the laws of the Borrower and is fully empowered and duly 
authorized to enter into the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement and the 
Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Credit Agreement and to assume and carry out the 
obligations thereunder.
(b)
that EPHZHB is a legal entity duly formed pursuant to its Charter and 
validly existing under the laws of the Federation and is fully empowered and duly 
authorized to enter into the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement and the 
Federation/EPHZHB Subsidiary Credit Agreement and to assume and carry out the 
obligations thereunder.
(c)
that EPRS is a legal entity duly formed pursuant to its Charter and 
validly existing under the laws of RS and is fully empowered and duly authorized to 
enter into the RS/EPRS Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Credit Agreement 
and to assume and carry out the obligations thereunder.
(d)
that the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS 
Project Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB 
and by RS/EPRS and are legally binding upon the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB and RS/EPRS in 
accordance with their terms.
(e)
that the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Credit Agreement, the 
Federation/EPHZHB Subsidiary Credit Agreement, and the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by and are legally binding upon the 
Federation/EPBiH, the Federation/EPHZHB, and the RS/EPRS in accordance with their 
terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall 
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever 
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the 
Minister of Treasury of Institutions are severally designated as the representatives 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Treasury of Institutions
Page  10
Crg BiH 1
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387 33 471822
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Azra Hadziahmetovic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Ingram
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (including
100% of foreign
associated works
expenditures,
and services)
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
(a)
Part A.1 of
   7,917,400
factory cost) and
the Project
85% of local ex-
penditures for
(b)
Part B.1 of
   2,865,300
other items pro-
the Project
cured locally
(c)
Part C.1 of
   7,697,300
the Project
(2)
Works Under Part B.2
   2,190,000
85%
of the Project
Page  11
(3)
Consultants' services
100%
(a)
Part A.2 of
   1,910,000
the Project
(b)
Part B.3 of
   1,910,000
the Project
(c)
Part C.2 of
   1,910,000
the Project
TOTAL
  26,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars three special deposit accounts, 
namely the EPBiH Special Account, the EPHZHB Special Account, and the EPRS Special 
Account in a commercial bank or banks, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
upon receipt by the Association of Project Management Reports pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS 
Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of each Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B. 2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02. 
(b) of the Federation/EPBiH/EPHZHB Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS Project 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreements, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for any Special 
Account or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
Page  12
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex  To  SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, shall be deposited by the Association into the respective Special Accounts in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of said Special Accounts’ Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Accounts an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in said Special 
Accounts, shall not exceed the equivalent of two million three hundred thousand 
Dollars ($2,300,000) in respect of the EPBiH Special Account for Part A of the 
Project, shall not exceed the equivalent of one million five hundred thousand 
($1,500,000) in respect of the EPHZHB Special Account for Part B of the Project, and 
shall not exceed the equivalent of two million two hundred thousand ($2,200,000) in 
respect of the EPRS Special Account for Part C of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) continue the Borrower’s post conflict 
reconstruction in the power sector; (ii) ensure access to reliable lower cost 
electricity, to be supplied with reduced environmental and safety risks; and (iii) 
improve cost recovery by EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS.
The project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  13
Part A:
EPBiH
1.
Transmission Lines
Reconstruction of lines: TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Mostar 4, TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 
- Sarajevo 20, TL 400 kV Mostar 4 - Gacko, TL 400 kV Visegrad - Tuzla, TL 400 kV 
Ugljevik - Ernestinovo, TL 220 kV Jajce - Mraclin, TL 220 kV Tuzla - Gradacac - 
Djakovo, and TL 110 kV Mostar - Nevesinje.
2.
Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to the staff of the EPBiH PIU for procurement 
and monitoring of implementation of the Project; strengthening the procurement 
capacity of the staff of the said EPBiH PIU; follow-up work on facilitating the 
corporatization and commercialization of EPBiH, including the establishment of 
financial management and management information systems; and carrying out a social 
survey to identify consumers in need of assistance to pay for electricity.
Part B:
EPHZHB
1.
Transmission Lines
Reconstruction of transmission lines:  TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Mostar 4, TL 400 
kV Mostar 4 - Gacko, TL 400 kV Ugljevik - Ernestinovo, TL 220 kV Jajce - Mraclin, and 
TL 220 kV Kakanj - Prijedor.
2.
Hydropower station
Rehabilitation of power tunnel and surge shaft of Rama Hydropower Station.
3.
Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to the staff of the EPHZHB PIU for procurement 
and monitoring of implementation of the Project; strengthening the procurement 
capacity of the said EPHZHB PIU; follow-up work on facilitating the corporatization 
and commercialization of EPHZHB, including the establishment of financial management 
and management information systems; and carrying out a social survey to identify 
consumers in need of assistance to pay for electricity.
Part C:
EPRS
1.
Transmission Lines
Reconstruction of transmission lines:  TL 400 kV Visegrad - Tuzla, TL 400 kV 
Mostar 4 - Gacko, TL 400 kV Sarajevo 10 - Sarajevo 20, TL 400 kV Ugljevik - 
Ernestinovo, TL 220 kV Jajce - Prijedor, TL 220 kV Prijedor - Sisak, TL 220 kV 
Gradacac - Djakovo, TL 110 kV Mostar - Nevesinje, TL 220 kV Dubrovnik - Trebinje.
2.
Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to the staff of the EPRS PIU for procurement 
and monitoring of implementation of the Project; strengthening the procurement 
capacity of the staff of the said EPRS PIU; follow-up work on facilitating the 
corporatization and commercialization of EPRS, including the establishment of 
financial management and management information systems; and carrying out a social 
survey to identify consumers in need of assistance to pay for electricity.
Part D:
Other Project Activities not Financed under the Credit
1.
Substations
a. Substations 
(EPBiH)
Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment and secondary equipment for: TS 
400/220/110 kV Tuzla; TS 400/110 kV Sarajevo 10; SG 220 kV Kakanj; SG 220 kV 
Jablanica; TS 220/110 kV Zenica 2; TS 220/110 kV Bihac 1; TS 220/110/35/10(20) kV 
Gradacac; TS 110/35/10 kV Mostar 2.
b. Substations 
(EPHZHB)
Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment and secondary equipment for: TS 
Page  14
400/220/110/35 kV Mostar 4; TS 220/110/35 kV Jajce 2; TS 220 kV Mostar 3.
c. Substations 
(EPRS)
Rehabilitation of primary electrical equipment and secondary equipment for:  TS 
400/220/110 kV Visegrad 370; TS 400/110/x kV Ugljevik; TS 400/220/110 kV Trebinje; TS 
400/110/x kV Banja Luka 6; TS 400/110/x kV Gacko; TS 400/220/110 kV Sarajeco 20 
(Lukavica); TS 220/110 kV Prijedor 2.
2.
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System
Provision of a supervisory control and data acquisition system, comprising three 
regional control centers and an overall central dispatch center, together with a 
telecommunications system, to interconnect the regional centers with their 400 kV, 220 
kV and selected 110 kV substations and hydro/thermal generating plant, as well as 
between the regional and central dispatch center’s supervisory control and data 
acquisition systems.
3.
Hydropower stations
a.
Hydropower station EPBiH (Jablanica)
Rehabilitation of Unit 5, Unit 6 and 110 kV substation, upgrading of dam 
instrumentation.
b.
Hydropower station EPRS (Trebinje)
Rehabilitation of Unit 1.
4.
Thermal Power Stations (environmental component)
a.
EPBiH (TPP Tuzla)
Rehabilitation of the Unit 5 electrostatic precipitator.
b.
EPBiH (TPP Kakanj)
Completion of the cooling water re-circulation system and rehabilitation of the 
Unit 7 electrostatic precipitator.
c.
EPRS (TPP Gacko)
Reclamation of the Granica ash disposal site.
d.
EPRS (TPP Ugljevik)
Introduction of a new system of ash transport and disposal.
5.
Distribution
a. EPBiH
Rehabilitation of distribution substation, lines, poles and towers. 
b.
EPHZHB
Rehabilitation of distribution substation, lines, poles and towers.
c.
EPRS
Rehabilitation of distribution substation, lines, poles and towers.
6.
Technical Assistance and Training
a. 
Initial work on facilitating the corporatization including the creation 
of opening balance sheets and commercialization (including the establishment of 
financial management and management information systems) of EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS 
through the provision of technical assistance to the staff of EPBiH, EPHZHB and EPRS.
b. 
Strengthening the capacity of ZEKC to enable it to perform the functions 
assigned to it under the electricity policy statements adopted by the Federation and 
RS on May 4, 2000 and April 20, 2000, respectively.
Page  15
c. 
Establishment of regulatory agencies for the electricity sector through 
the provision of technical assistance and training to the staff of these agencies.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultant’s Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of   Section 
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and works
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10 million equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract under Parts A.1, B.1, B.2 and C.1 of Schedule 2, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Page  16
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultant’s services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
