                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000997




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-35340)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.4 MILLION
                        (US$ 35.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                          BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                     FOR A

            THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT




                                  May 27, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS



                  (Exchange Rate Effective 1 April 2009)

                            Currency Unit = KM
                            1.00 = US$ 0.65187
                              US$ 1.00 = 1.47

                               FISCAL YEAR

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL    Adaptable Program Loan
BiH    Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DFID   Department for International Development (UK)

EBRD   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC     European Commission
ECSEE  Energy Community of South East Europe
EIB    European Investment Bank
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
EPBiH  Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina
EPHZHB Elektroprivreda of the Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia
EPRS   Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska
ERP    Enterprise Resource Planning
ETSO   European Transmission System Operators
EU     European Union
FBiH   Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FDI    Foreign Direct Investment
FMERI  Federation Ministry of Energy, Mining and Industry
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
IAS    International Accounting Standards
IASB   International Accounting Standards Board
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA    International Development Association
IFC    International Finance Corporation
IFRS   International Financial Reporting Standards
ISO    Independent System Operator
JUGEL  Yugoslavia Electric Power Industry
KfW    Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
MOFTER Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations

`NCB   National Competitive Bidding
NGOs   Non-Government Organizations
NORAD  Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
RS     Republika Srpska
SCADA  Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SDRs   Special Drawing Rights
SEETEC Southeast European Electrical System Technical Support Project
SECO   State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (Switzerland)
TPP    Thermal Power Plant
TSO    Transmission System Operator
UCTE   Union for Coordination of Transmission of Electricity in Europe
USAID  United States Agency for International Development
ZEKC   Joint Power Coordination Center




                      Vice President: Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP

                    Country Director: Jane Armitage, ECCU4

                     Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech, ECSSD

                                      Iftikhar Khalil, ECSSD
                Project Team Leader:
                                      Amarquaye Armar, ETWES

                   ICR Team Leader: Mohinder Gulati, ECSSD

                        BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

   FOR A THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT

                                 Table of Contents



Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph

1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................6
3.    Assessment of Outcomes....................................................................................15
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................20
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...............................................20
6.    Lessons Learned .................................................................................................22
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............32
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................34
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................36

 IBRD MAP 30803

A. Basic Information

                                                                   Electric Power
                       Bosnia and
Country:                                     Project Name:         Reconstruction 3
                       Herzegovina
                                                                   Project
Project ID:            P058521               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-35340
ICR Date:              05/28/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                   BOSNIA AND
Lending Instrument:    SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                   HERZEGOVINA
Original Total
                       XDR 26.4M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 24.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
EPBiH
EPHZHB
EPRS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Department for International Development UK (DFID)
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)
European Investment Bank (EIB)
SDC
SPAIN
EC
KfW
Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
USAID


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date            Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/23/1999    Effectiveness:                          01/16/2002
Appraisal:            03/27/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/26/2001    Mid-term Review:                        02/11/2004
                                    Closing:             03/31/2005         05/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Moderate
Bank Performance:                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Satisfactory




                                             i

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                    Ratings                Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Highly Satisfactory      Government:             Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory              Implementing
                                                  Agency/Agencies:        Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
Performance:             Satisfactory             Performance:            Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    4                  4
Power                                                               96                 96


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                40                 40
Infrastructure services for private sector development              40                 40
Regulation and competition policy                                   20                 20


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                       Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                    Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:       Mohinder P. Gulati                  Iftikhar Khalil
ICR Team Leader:           Mohinder P. Gulati
ICR Primary Author:        Mohinder P. Gulati
                           Shinya Nishimura
                           Yolanda Litan Gedse




                                                 ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Continue the post-conflict reconstruction program in the power sector and ensure access
to reliable, lower cost electricity, to be supplied with reduced environmental and safety
risks, and improved cost recovery by the suppliers.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No revision

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target   Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
                                             approval        Target     Completion or
                                            documents)       Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Improved revenue collection EPBiH
Value
quantitative or 97%                      99%                           99%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2001                 03/31/2005                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Improved revenue collection EPHZHB
Value
quantitative or 89%                      100%                          99%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2001                 03/31/2005                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Improved revenue collection EPRS
Value
quantitative or 87%                      96%                           99%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2001                 03/31/2005                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Convert ZEKC to ISO
Value
quantitative or                                                        completed
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                          06/08/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                             iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Length of Transmission Lines restored
Value
(quantitative  0 %                         100%                             100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2001                   05/31/2005                       12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Completion of planned expenditures in Distribution
Value
(quantitative                                                               0%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Difficult to monitor since USAID implemented this component through

achievement)   contractors directly hired by it. Financing from Spain did not materialize.

Indicator 3 :  Increased gross power flows between EPs
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved

Comments       Because of the yet-to-be stabilized operation of Transco/ISO, difficult to obtain

(incl. %       reliable data at present time. However, the flows between the EPs are estimated

achievement)   to be about 720 GWh which are significantly affected by the quantities EPHZHB
               supplies
Indicator 4 :  Passage of Law and Establishment of Regulatory Agencies
Value
(quantitative                                                               Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               08/23/2002
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :  Completion of Restructuring and Provatization Study and Adoption of
               Satisfactory Plans
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %       Energy Sector Study completed



                                                 iv

achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Completion of planned expenditures in Hydropower Plants
Value
(quantitative  0%                                                        99.7%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/24/2001                                                 12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Reduce particulate emissions in thermal power plants
Value
(quantitative  0%                                                        110%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/24/2001                                                 12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Please see paragraph 25 of the attached ICR dated 27 May 2009 for details on

achievement)   each thermal plant.

Indicator 8 :  Beginning of new management information systems

Value                                    All three EPs have              One EP fully

(quantitative  0%                        implemented                     implemented FMIS;

or Qualitative)                          FMIS                            one partially; and
                                                                         the third none at all
Date achieved 05/24/2001                 05/31/2006                      12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       After delays, implementation is progressing in EPRS and EPBiH through

achievement)   follow-on project (ECSEE APL 3)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP             Disbursements
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1     08/10/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     06/18/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     12/03/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.51
  4     06/25/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.99
  5     12/12/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    1.30
  6     06/28/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    9.63
  7     10/29/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  19.46
  8     05/18/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  27.72
  9     12/07/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  31.32
  10    03/14/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  33.28
  11    02/19/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  33.99



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


                                              v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

1.      After four years of devastating war that ended in 1995, Bosnia-Herzegovina depended on
external technical and financial assistance for reconstruction and recovery. The new State
Institutions - State-level Presidency and a Council of Ministers, and two constituent Entities the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federation) and Republika Srpska (RS) - were
established pursuant to Dayton Peace Agreement. By 2001 when Third Electric Power
Reconstruction Project was prepared, these institutions had started managing the government
business reasonably well. Strong economic growth spurred by donor-funded reconstruction led
BiH to launch in 2000 its first Economic Development Strategy to attract investment resources
and expand trade remained strong. However, there were still large unmet needs for post-conflict
reconstruction. Stronger institutions and governance, and deeper sector reforms were needed to
achieve BiH's development objectives. Prior to the war, BiH had a single vertically-integrated
socially-owned power company. This company was separated into three vertically-integrated
companies (two in the Federation and one in RS) serving three separate groups of consumers in
Bosnia, Herzegovina, and Republika Srpska. In addition to reconstruction, the power sector
reforms were needed to underpin the government's economic recovery efforts.

2.      In 1990, BiH produced 12,613 Gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity from generating
plants located on its territory. Electricity consumption was 11,535 GWh. The system comprised
13 hydropower plants with a total capacity of 2,034 megawatts (MW) and an average output of
6,922 GWh/year, and 4 thermal power plants with a total capacity of 1,957 MW and an output of
9,252 GWh in 1990. Total export was 1,268 GWh. The thermal power plants were brown coal
and lignite fired, with the fuel coming from mines within BiH. BiH was responsible for operating
its own power system and meeting local demand. However, being part of the former Yugoslav
network, the 400 kV power grid in BiH as well as power exchanges were controlled by Yugoslav
Electric Power Industry's (JUGEL) dispatching center in Belgrade.

3.      At the beginning of 1996, more than half of the generating capacity had been put out of
operation because of direct damages, destroyed transmission lines or lack of coal. Most plants
had also suffered from lack of maintenance during the war. About 60% of the transmission
network and control system in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina (Federation) was seriously
damaged, including transmission facilities and interconnection lines to neighboring countries.
The transmission network and control system in Republika Srpska (RS) were also heavily
damaged, particularly in those areas located close to confrontation lines. The 400 kV system in
BiH was almost completely out of operation (the main exception was the Trebinje-Podgorica 400
kV transmission line). Many distribution networks were badly damaged in both the Federation
and RS as a result of fighting and a lack of maintenance. Many transformer stations, buildings,
telecommunications and maintenance facilities and equipment were also either seriously
damaged or destroyed.

4.      Soon after the conflict ended the Bank prepared investment projects to rehabilitate the
damaged infrastructure quickly organized as Electric Power Reconstruction Project. The first
project was prepared for the Federation, while the Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project



                                                  1

included all three Elektroprivreda (EPs), and had more ambitious institutional and sector reform
objectives. Rehabilitation enabled total generation to reach 10,429 GWh in 2000 (83% of the
1990 level) and consumption within BiH to reach 9,365 GWh in 1999 (81% of the 1990 level).
However, despite these achievements, the remaining rehabilitation needs were still very large
and many facilities remained to be reconstructed. Investments were also needed to improve
reliability, safety and environmental protection.

5.      The Federation and RS governments had placed high priority on continued reconstruction
of the power system as one of the primary means to re-launch economic activity. International
Development Association (IDA) and other international financiers had been supporting this
reconstruction, and agreed with the priorities stated by the government that further investments
were needed to continue the post-war reconstruction program.

6.      The Project was therefore designed to (i) continue reconstruction of conflict-damaged
infrastructure, (ii) strengthen institutions, governance, and power sector reforms, and (iii)
improve coordination between the three power utilities, Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina
(EPBiH), Elektroprivreda of Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia (EPHZHB), and
Elektroprivreda Republika Sprska (EPRS) to (a) establish a single control area to enable BiH to
rejoin the European Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity (UCTE), and (b)
strengthen State level integration mechanisms for creating a common economic space.

7.      Large reconstruction financing requirements, and the need for a common platform to
channel donor support, led to complexities in the project design. With US$35 million of
financing, IDA coordinated nine other financers to finance a project costing more than US$230
million.    The components to be financed by each donor were carefully selected to avoid
duplication, and were clearly defined to obtain synergies. Each donor handled procurement and
implementation of their respective component. Though it is possible to argue in hindsight that a
common implementation consultant may have increased the efficiency of implementation, the
arrangement selected by the Bank and the development partners seems to have worked well.

8.      This was the third project to continue to support reconstruction and rehabilitation needs,
and to support the sector restructuring and reforms to enable BiH to participate in the regional
electricity market. Three projects had progressively more ambitious institutional and sector
restructuring goals, and a follow up project ECSEE APL-3 was approved to deepen integration
of BiH into the regional energy market. The Project Development Objectives were appropriate
for the post-conflict situation, consistent with the Country's stated priorities and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

9.      The project development objective was to continue the post-conflict reconstruction
program in the power sector and ensure access to reliable, lower cost electricity, to be supplied
with reduced environmental and safety risks, and improved cost recovery by the suppliers.
While priority was given to reconstruction of power supply infrastructure and cost recovery,
strong emphasis was also placed on improving power coordination among the power companies
and sector reforms to enable BiH to participate fully in the regional electricity market.



                                                 2

Below is the table of key indicators in the original project document:

                                      Table 1.1 - Key Indicators

Sector Indicators
                                        1. Improved revenue collection relative to amounts billed
                                        2. Convert ZEKC to ISO
Outcome/Impact Indicators
                                        1. Increased restored and new connections

                                        2. Reduced distribution losses and avoidance of increase in
                                        transmission losses
                                        3. Reduced particulate emissions at rehabilitated thermal power
                                        stations
                                        4. Improved self-financing of investments
                                        5. Improved revenue collection relative to amounts billed
                                        6. Satisfactory debt service coverage ratio
               Outputs                                           Output Indicators
Increase transmission capacity         - Length of transmission lines and number of substations restored
Increase distribution capacity         - Completion of planned expenditures
BiH power system                       - Increased gross power flows between the EPs

Establish a legislative and regulatory
framework conducive to privatization
and competition                         - Passage of laws and physical establishment of regulatory agencies
Prepare restructuring and privatization 1. Completion of study
                                        2. Adoption of satisfactory plans
Improve availability and safety at
hydropower plants                       Completion of planned expenditures
Reduced pollution at thermal power
plants                                  Reduced particulate emissions at specific plants
Establish new management
information systems                    Beginning of operation of the new system



1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

PDO or the Key Indicators were not revised during implementation.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

10.    The target population was household and non-household consumers of electricity
throughout BiH, particularly returning refugees (such as in Konjic, Ravno, Livno, Glamoc),
settlements in Lasva (Vitez, Busovaca) and those in small towns and rural areas who did not
benefit from previous stages of rehabilitation of the power system. Many of these potential




                                                     3

beneficiaries were living in poverty, and all three governments wanted to improve availability of
electricity to the refugee population to improve the quality of their lives.

1.5     Original Components (as approved)

11.     The project's focus was on restoration of the 400 kV and other high voltage transmission
systems, especially reconstruction of damaged substations. This restoration was envisioned to
help BiH to restore the pre-war interconnections with the other parts of former Yugoslavia and
eventually to re-join the Union for the Coordination of Transmission in Europe (UCTE).

There were seven principal project components (Details given in Table 1.2 below):

   a) Rehabilitation of the high voltage transmission network lines started under Power 2.

   b) Reconstruction of key 400/220/110 kV substations.

   c) Establishment of a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System and
        associated telecommunication facilities.

   d) Safety and rehabilitation requirements of select hydropower stations (Jablanica, Rama
        and Trebinje).

   e) Pollution reduction at select thermal power generation plants at Tuzla, Kakanj, Gacko
        and Ugljevik.

   f) Distribution investments focusing on:

                (i)     areas identified for refuge return;
                (ii)    heavily damaged and cut-off areas, which have little or no electricity
                        supply;
                (iii)   areas with seriously overloaded networks, due to resettlement of refugees;
                        and
                (iv)    areas with war damage where many connections are of a temporary nature
                        and power supply is unreliable and unsafe

   g) Technical assistance and training in support of:

                (i)     procurement and implementation of the physical components;
                (ii)    the development of the Joint Power Coordinating Center (ZEKC) into an
                        Independent System Operator for BiH system;
                (iii)   a survey of socially vulnerable electricity consumers;
                (iv)    corporatization and commercialization of the power sector enterprises; and
                (v)     establishment of independent power sector regulatory agencies for BiH.

   Training was included for g. (i), (ii), (iv) and (v).




                                                  4

                                Table 1.2 ­ Project Components




1.6    Revised Components

12.    The components were generally unchanged, although some of the terms of reference of
the consultants were refined and scopes of works were revised based on detailed technical
designs. Scope of work in case of SCADA was increased while the functionality remained the
same. In addition, the cost savings from the EIB component were utilized for additional works in
Tuzla and Kakanj thermal power stations, and in case of EPRS for additional rehabilitation of
transmission lines and substations.

1.7    Other significant changes

13.    Implementation was significantly delayed from the schedule envisioned at appraisal.
Consequently the project closing date had to be extended three times from March 31, 2005 to
May 31, 2008. There was more than a year of delay at the initial stage due to disagreement over
the arrangement of the transmission company among co-financiers that led to the initial
extension. The project closing date was extended twice more due to delays in implementation
schedule, caused mainly by political impasse during election periods in 2002 and 2006. Although
the IDA financed investments were mostly completed according to schedule, the implementation
of policy and institutional reform of the sector, energy sector study and Financial Management



                                                5

Information System (FMIS) for each of the Elektroprivredas were delayed. FMIS component
also experienced procurement disputes (see Section 2.2).          Seeing the benefits of FMIS
implementation in EPHZHB and in the demonstration pilots in EPRS, both EPRS and EPBiH
have decided to roll out the FMIS through the companies (see Section 2.5). Components co-
financed by the development partners were also completed except delays in implementation of
EBRD financed SCADA-EMS component and distribution strengthening to be financed by
Spain was cancelled. The EBRD financed SCADA-EMS, currently in advanced stages of
implementation, is nearing completion.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.     Lessons learned from the previous projects (Power 1 and 2 both were co-financed by
several development partners), other post-conflict construction projects, and sector reforms
financed by the Bank Group were taken into account. The project design paid particular attention
to the lessons learned from the previous operations with BiH:

    ·   Since the expected international financing covered only part of the large remaining
        reconstruction needs, it was essential to obtain the agreement of all the project
        implementing agencies on the investments to be included under the project and the
        allocation of available financing among the three Elektroprivredas. The main feasibility
        study provided the basis of this agreement, which was reached during the pre-appraisal
        mission.
    ·   Co-financing to be made available in a timely manner. Reasonably firm financing
        commitments had been secured at appraisal to cover all costs except US$ 13.6 million.
        Additional financing from other development partners was secured as well.
    ·   Financing for technical assistance needs to be secured early in order to avoid delays in
        project components that depend on prior completion of that technical assistance. IDA
        would finance the critical procurement technical assistance, while other bilateral agencies
        provided other TA funds.
    ·   PIUs need to have strong capacities and be well-staffed. The PIUs for Power 2 continued
        implementation under Power 3 and technical assistance was provided where necessary.
    ·   Progress towards power sector coordination and reform requires patience and an active
        role by the Bank because of the need to gain the agreement of the implementing agencies
        and the Entity Governments under the existing political climate. This turned out to be the
        most difficult component. The development partners and the Bank worked in a
        coordinated manner to encourage sector reforms. The USAID and EC funded consultants
        worked full time to draft laws and help in implementation. The team painstakingly
        worked with the State and Entity governments, power companies, the development
        partners, and the civil society to move the process of sector reforms. Though with some
        delay, a sector structure acceptable to all the stakeholders, and consistent with the
        requirements of regional electricity market (ECSEE) and EU Directives, was finalized
        and phased implementation started. However, in mid 2008 disagreement among the
        Entities has arisen on structure and management of one element of the new sector




                                                 6

        structure (national Transmission company and Independent System Operator). Efforts of
        the international community are ongoing to resolve these disputes (see Section 2.2).
   ·    Bundling of contracts greatly increased the efficiency of the procurement process and
        supervision. In the earlier projects, the investments had been divided into smaller
        contracts with different financiers, which caused delays to the investments and increased
        the resource requirements for proper supervision. Bundling of contracts by components
        streamlined the procurement process as well as increased the efficiency of supervision.

15.     The project also benefited from activities under previous projects in an additional way.
The environmental components included under the project were based partly on the
Environmental Management Plans prepared under Power 1 and Power 2. A lesson learned from
the experience in other countries in the Europe and Central Asia Region is the desirability of
minimizing barter trade arrangements. The project contributed to this goal by emphasizing
measures to strengthen the financial viability of the EPs and encouraging actions towards
corporatization and operation on a commercial basis. In this respect, agreement was reached to
increase the proportion of bills to be paid in cash for coal purchases by EPBiH.

Identified Risks

16.     The risks identified at the appraisal stage are summarized in Table 1.3. Special attention
was paid to two risks:

   ·    Timely construction of Ernestinovo substation in Croatia and associated transmission
        lines. Before the war, this substation was an important node in the 400 kV grid which
        linked together the power transmission system of former Yugoslavia. Without this
        substation or a substitute, an important part of the international benefits of the project,
        through improved power interchanges in the Balkans, would not have been realized. In
        addition, BiH would not earn any revenue (estimated present value at appraisal US$8.9
        million) from wheeling power between north-eastern Croatia and western Croatia. The
        risk was mitigated by making the commencement of reconstruction of Ernestinovo
        substation as a condition precedent for staring reconstruction of the Ugljevik-Ernestinovo
        transmission line.

   ·    BiH power system may not operate as an integrated system after the transmission system
        is rehabilitated and the SCADA system is completed. The possible consequence were
        identified as follows;

            o The SCADA investment of about US$ 7.8 million made for ZEKC (ISO) would
                be wasted since non-integrated system implies that ZEKC (ISO) would be
                ineffectual. The SCADA investments in the regional dispatch centers and the
                associated communications networks would still be useful.
            o BiH would be unable to rejoin the UCTE as a separate control area. Its
                membership might be further delayed as a result. A possible scenario involving
                UCTE membership in which the Federation would become part of Croatia control
                area and RS would become part of a future FRY control area had been identified.
                In such a scenario additional metering investments would have been needed at the



                                                  7

 interface between the Federation and RS power systems that would not be
 required if BiH is accepted as a single control area.
o Non-integrated operation would likely result in more frequent and longer power
  outages than integrated operation.
o Due to non-synchronization of EPRS and EPBiH systems with each other, it
  would not be possible for EPRS to supply the full power demand in northern RS.
o Non-integrated operation would not allow the Elektroprivredas to enjoy the
  benefits of wheeling power to foreign markets evaluated in the cost-benefit
  analysis since in each case the power would need to be transmitted through the
  transmission lines of more than one Elektroprivreda.
o Non-integrated operation would make it difficult to enable use of Capljina as
  pump- storage project to meet peak demand in the system.
o Transmission system losses would be greater under the non-integrated operation.




                                  8

Table 1.3 ­ Critical Risks




            9

17.     Of the risks identified at appraisal, two risks did materialize: (a) delay in implementation,
and (b) failure to secure full financing. However, most of the delay was due to political
instability and delayed effectiveness caused by elections, except for implementation of Financial
Management Information System that was delayed leading to cancellation of about SDR 2.2
million--about SDR 2.0 million for FMIS for EPBiH and EPRS, and SDR0.2 million for
EPHZHB due to savings from network rehabilitation that could not be utilized in time.. The
delay in implementation of FMIS component occurred partly due to delay by EPBiH and partly
due to a dispute between the EPs and the consultant due to apparent conflict of interest of one of
the associates of the consultant. Financing was secured from all financers except for an amount
of about US$18 million equivalent (8% of project cost) from Government of Spain due to failure
of the parties to resolve procedural and procurement issues. Since this component was to finance
distribution network improvement, it was programmatic in nature and therefore did not affect the
overall project.

2.2     Implementation

18.     The assessment carried out by IDA at appraisal showed that the EPs were capable of
implementing the proposed project. As this was a complex project with a major reform
component, three responsible implementing agencies and several co-financiers, a significant
supervision effort was required.

Significant delays in implementation resulted from the following reasons:

    a) Political impasse created after elections held in 2002 and 2006.

    b) The large number of organizations and entities involved in the reform process made
        coordination difficult and cumbersome. The number of organizations involved in the
        reform of the BiH power sector includes Office of High Representative (OHR),
        Parliaments, various tiers of the three Governments (including the Prime Ministers, the
        State and Entity Ministries dealing with energy, and the two Entity privatization
        agencies), all of the existing and future power sector organizations (three EPs and their
        post-restructuring successor companies, Joint Power Coordination Center (ZEKC), the
        Independent System Operator, and the three Regulatory Commissions), eleven financiers
        (of which six are actively involved in the reform process), and five consultants providing
        assistance for the reform process. Although the overall reform concepts were agreed,
        there were issues on specific implementation aspects that frequently needed to be
        resolved between several, if not all, of these various organizations. Disagreement on role,
        responsibilities, management and operation of TRANSCO and ISO continue to linger.
        Both the Entity Governments and the State have taken significant steps by signing an
        Agreement on Energy Principles and its ratification by the respective legislatures that
        inter-alia includes resolution of TRANSCO and ISO issues. However, instead of
        resolving the disagreement, more recent developments indicate further deepening of the
        disagreement. Retaining Transco as a national company would not only benefit the power
        sector but also strengthen the coordination processes among the Entities and the State.




                                                 10

    c) The FMIS component was fully implemented by EPHZHB, partially by EPRS, and to a
       very limited extent by EPBiH which delayed the implementation within its company.
        During implementation, a dispute arose with the consultant due to apparent conflict of
        interest of one of the associates of the consultant. The contract was terminated and
        further implementation of FMIS in EPBiH came to a halt. This component will be
        continued through the ECSEE APL3 Project.

    d) A total amount of SDR2.2 million was cancelled. About SDR 0.2 million of cost
        savings of EPHZHB from network rehabilitation component could not be utilized and
        were therefore cancelled. A larger amount of cancellation (SDR 2.0 million) was on
        account of delay in implementation of FMIS component by EPBiH and EPRS. However,
        having seen the benefits of FMIS in EPHZHB and pilot in EPRS, both the companies
        have now decided to roll it out across their companies.

    e) Implementation of SCADA has been delayed and is still ongoing with EBRD having
        extended its loan to enable its completion.        One of the reasons for delay is the
        disagreement on the issue of transfer of credit to Transco and ISO for which now a
        solution has been agreed that the EPs will pay for the SCADA investments made in their
        respective jurisdictions.

    (f) Distribution component to be financed through a bilateral Credit from Spain was
        cancelled due to disagreement on procurement procedures and was therefore not
        completed.

Although the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MOFTER) had initiated
coordination meeting at regular intervals in conjunction with the project team, efficient and
effective coordination and implementation proved difficult.

IDA carried out a mid-term review of the project in February 2004. In addition to the topics
covered under the Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs), the mid-term review included a review of
the economic viability of the project components, based on actual costs and benefits achieved to-
date, and of the overall institutional and financial performance of the EPs. This review identified
the delays in the reform process and in implementation of some co-financed components and
indicated that the extension of the closing date was likely.

19.     The audited financial statements of the three EPs were made available to and reviewed by
the Association in the supervision process. Measures to strengthen these systems such as the
appointment of auditors, appropriate staff and installation of FMIS for each of the entities were
implemented, albeit with significant delays which pushed the completion of the system past
project implementation period.

20.     During the implementation period, the EPs substantially improved their operational and
financial performance and achieved the objectives of supply of lower cost electricity and
improved cost recovery. Table 1 below provides a comparison of the targeted/covenanted values
of key financial and operational performance indicators with achievement. Detailed financial
statements for the three power companies, including comparisons of projections at appraisal with



                                                 11

actual performance, are provided in Tables 2 to 4 in Annex 3. A comparison of selected
financial performance indicators (projected vs. achieved) is given in Table 1.

                Table 1: Key Financial Performance Indicators (Target vs Actual)

                           Unit    2000     2001  2002     2003     2004    2005  2006   2007
                                 (Baseline)
EPBiH
Distribution losses         %
  Target (not higher than)  %                    12%     12%      12%      12%    12%   12%
  Actual                    %      12%      11%  11%     11%      11%      11%    10.9% 10.8%
Self-financing of           %
investments                 %
  Target (not lower than)   %                    40%     40%      40%      40%    40%   40%
  Actual                                    112% 99%     67%      84%      167%   68%   96%
Revenue collection          %
performance                 %
  Target (not lower than)   %                    97%     97%      97%      99%    99%   99%
  Actual                           97%      97%  100%    97%      108%     96%    100%  99%
Debt service coverage      ratio
  Target (not lower than)  ratio                 1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5    1.5   1.5
  Actual                   ratio            38.2         3.6      5.2      7.5    1.6   7.8
EPHZHB
Distribution losses         %
  Target (not higher than)  %                     19%      16%      12%     12%   12%    12%
  Actual                    %      25%           24,38%  22,46%   21,31%   19,77% 17.7% 16.8%
Self-financing of           %
investments                 %
  Target (not lower than)   %                     40%      40%      40%     40%   40%    40%
  Actual                                    56%   88%      76%      53%     130%  112%   -5%
Revenue collection          %
performance                 %
  Target (not lower than)   %                     89%      99%      99%     99%   100%  100%
  Actual                           89%      91%  126%      99%      96%     97%   97%    99%
Debt service coverage      ratio
  Target (not lower than)  ratio                   1.5     1.5       1.5     1.5   1.5    1.5
  Actual                   ratio            45.4   2.5     11.7      5.1     4.2  23.2  -10.6
EPRS
Distribution losses         %
  Target (not higher than)  %                     19%      16%      12%     12%   12%    12%
  Actual                    %      27%            20.68   20.80     21.53   20.60 20.84 17.41%
Self-financing of           %
investments                 %
  Target (not lower than)   %                     40%      40%      40%     40%   40%    40%
  Actual                                    77%            58%      90%     95%   105%  151%
Revenue collection          %
performance                 %
  Target (not lower than)   %                     87%    87%      87%       96%   96%    96%
  Actual                           87%      95%  104%    81%      101%      96%   99%    99%
Debt service coverage      ratio
  Target (not lower than)  ratio                   1.5     1.5       1.5     1.5   1.5    1.5
  Actual                   ratio            14.4   4.6     4.3      11.8     8.2  11.6   16.3




                                                12

21.      As measured by these key indicators, the objective of lower cost supply and improved
cost recovery was almost consistently achieved in the case of all three power companies. With
the exception of reductions in distribution losses, the other indicators were consistently achieved
in all three EPs with the exception of 2007 in EPHZHB. In 2007, EPHZHB, whose generation
capacity is mainly hydro, faced a particularly difficult environment. Due to adverse hydrological
conditions, EPHZHB's hydropower generation was seriously curtailed.                      EPHZHB's own
generation of about 1500 GWh is sufficient to meet its demand but it needs to import power to
meet the demand of one aluminum manufacturing company (about 500 GWh) that is supplied
power at concessional tariff1. To meet demand, EPHZHB had to resort to substantially increased
imports at the high import prices prevailing at the time.

22.      Since the regulated tariffs were not sufficient to cover the costs, EPHZHB's cash flow
was seriously affected in 2007.          This affected EPHZHB's self-financing and debt service
coverage ratios in 2007. For all three companies, the self-financing of investments and debt
service coverage ratios were otherwise substantially in excess of the covenanted minimum ratios
of 40% and 1.5 respectively. Revenue collection performance was also strong, in some years
exceeding 100% reflecting successful collection of arrears. However, in regard to distribution
losses, only EPBiH was able to consistently achieve the targeted reductions. In the case of
EPHZHB and EPRS, there have been significant reductions in losses as compared to the baseline
situation in 2000.       Nevertheless, through 2007, the distribution losses continued to be
substantially higher than the targets. In 2006, the two companies had agreed to develop a
program for accelerating improvements in this area. Further reductions in distribution losses
were achieved in 2007.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as
applicable)

Environmental

23.      Consistent with the requirements for a Category "B" project, Environmental Management
Plans (EMPs) and mitigation actions were prepared by the Elektroprivredas. The EMPs were
incorporated into the Project Implementation Plan.

24.      The EMPs had been prepared in consultation with consumer groups and local non-
governmental organizations (NGOs). In the preparation of the reconstruction components, on the
other hand, direct participation of final electricity consumers or NGOs, was not sought since the
project aimed to rehabilitate (and where possible improve) existing facilities.

25.      The environmental impacts were correctly and adequately identified, monitored, and
mitigated. Key issues were: (a) construction impacts (noise, dust) of transmission lines and
substations, electromagnetic radiation from transmission lines, use of PCBs in transformers and
other substation equipment. Construction impacts were mitigated well, and environmental
performance of rehabilitated thermal plants improved considerably. For example, emission of

1
 Only 30% of aluminum company's demand is supplied at concessional tariffs and the company is required to
procure the remaining from the open market.




                                                  13

particulate matter reduced from 650 to 50 mg/m3 for Tuzla and 300-400 to 100 mg/m3 for
Kakanj, water pollution levels from cooling towers of Kakanj were reduced to one third and
water consumption for cooling was reduced to less than 10% of pre-rehabilitation stage.
Similarly, for Gacko thermal power plant the dust emission was reduced by about 50% and water
consumption in ash transportation reduced from 150 t/h to 70 t/h, and for Ugljevic thermal power
plant, the dust emission was reduced by 70%. In addition, due to construction of cascades on the
ash ponds, previously frequent direct discharge of ash into the Mezgraja river was stopped.

Social

Since poverty is wide spread, and especially amongst the refugee population, measures to target
both the incidence of project-related benefits and the mitigation of project-related costs to the
poor were supported under the project. In order to facilitate the targeting of project-related
benefits, those development partners planning to fund investments in low-voltage distribution
networks undertook case-by-case feasibility study in close coordination with the inter-agency
Refugee Return Task Force (RRTF) to ensure that returning refugees and the poor will benefit.
A study on the social impact of the electricity tariffs was also completed in 2003 by Ekonomski
Institut AD, Banjaluka to ensure that any tariff increase that may be required will be
implemented along with a social protection program for the poor (see Section 3.5).

26.     The EPs and the Regulatory Commissions have started issuing tariffs based on the new
regulations from 2006. The entities were advised to sequence the rationalization of the tariff to
minimize the impact it would have on the poor and socially vulnerable. A social assessment was
carried out that included both quantitative study of household expenditure on electricity services
and substitutes and the impact of possible tariff increases and a qualitative consumer satisfaction
survey.

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

27.     Reconstruction of 400 kV transmission lines and substations was completed leading to
synchronization of Bosnia-Herzegovina's power system with Union for the Coordination of
Transmission in Europe (UCTE), higher availability of transmission capacity, and improvement
in quality and reliability of supply within Bosnia-Herzegovina. Elektroprenos (Transco) is
operating and managing the system well, but is experiencing major constraints in investments,
financing, human resource management, and institutional capacity development because of weak
governance and management arrangements and deepening disputes between the Federation and
the Republika Srpska. Although, the physical benefits of reconstruction of the high voltage
transmission network have been realized, protracted delay in resolution of disputes among the
shareholders may lead to gradual deterioration of the benefits of these investments and of
institutional capacity support provided through the project.

28.     EPs will continue to operate and maintain the hydroelectric power plants for which the
project financed rehabilitation, and thermal power plants for which environmental upgrading of
thermal power plants was financed through the project. The EPs have adequate technical and
financial capacity to operate and maintain these plants.




                                                14

29.      After the closing date of the project, the EPs will continue with the implementation of the
FMIS installation, which has been phased so that IDA funds will finance the components which
will be completed during the allocated project period. A follow up operation ECSEE APL 3
(BiH) has allocated US$ 3 million equivalent for continued support for implementation of FMIS.
The EPs have decided to roll out the FMIS throughout the companies and will provide
counterpart funds for meeting the shortfall. This is an excellent development, would leverage the
initial investment in modernization of information technology tools in the EPs, and the benefits
are likely to sustain.

30.      With the exception of the dispute about Transco/ISO, sector restructuring and reforms
have been implemented well. Regulatory agencies have been established at the State and Entity
level and have become operational, BiH power system has been reconnected and synchronized
with Union for Coordination of Transmission in Europe (UCTE), an Energy Study has been
prepared, and financial and operational performance of the three EPs has significantly improved.
The benefits of these reforms are likely to sustain. However, in the current environment it is
unclear whether and when further reforms and restructuring, and opening of market to
competition, envisaged in the restructuring plans will be implemented.

31.      Additional works on reconstruction and on BiH's commitments made under the Energy
Community of South East Europe (ECSEE) were to be addressed in the ECSEE APL3 project.
The project was prepared while Power 3 was still under implementation. The ECSEE APL-3
project became effective in April 2007, and is currently under implementation.


3.       Assessment of Outcomes

3.1      Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

32.      Given the post-conflict environment, reconstruction of war-damaged infrastructure was
critical to restore power supply and services, trigger economic activity, and improve quality of
life for a traumatized people that included returning refugees. In addition to the damage,
prolonged conflict had also led to neglect of maintenance of assets and deterioration of
environmental performance of power generation plants. Rehabilitation and environmental
upgrading of power plants was consistent with the global priorities, regional imperatives of peace
and stability, and the Bank assistance strategy. The sector reform and institutional strengthening
goals have contributed to increased financial viability, sustainability of its operations and
transparency to the EPs. Due to high priority given by the government and the donors to post-
conflict reconstruction and institutional strengthening envisaged under this project, it was co-
financed by several development partners. The project supported the CAS goals of (i)
strengthening institutions and governance, and (ii) fostering private sector-led growth and
employment.

3.2      Achievement of Project Development Objectives

33.      The project achieved the development objective of post-conflict reconstruction of power
sector to ensure access to reliable, lower cost electricity, improved cost recovery, and reduced
environmental and safety risks. Investment components such as transmission lines, substations,



                                                  15

distribution network, environmental upgrading of selected thermal plants, rehabilitation of
selected hydropower plants were implemented well. Bosnia-Herzegovina power system was
reconnected to UCTE. Part of distribution network investments (equivalent to about US$7
million) to be financed by Spain did not materialize. However, other donors implemented the
distribution network rehabilitation, in particular in the refugee settlements and in areas where
refugees had returned. To accelerate the reconstruction and strengthening the distribution
network, USAID implemented the investment schemes directly through the contractors hired by
them instead of routing the funding through the EPs

34.    Integration of BiH power system with UCTE was an important objective since its
achievement was of critical importance for the whole Balkan region. It was also intended to help
ensure the entire BiH system functioned as a single control area for the purpose of participation
in the regional electricity market. Resynchronization with UCTE depended on Croatia
completing the Ernestinovo 400 kV substation which was accomplished well in time and much
celebrated by the Energy Community of South East Europe.

35.    Improvement in dam safety in old hydropower stations was timely and was of high
priority. Not only was this idea pursued further through a follow up operation (ECSEE APL3), it
was also taken up by Albania for its old hydropower plants through the regional APL program
(ECSEE APL).

36.    Intense preparation phase of the project facilitated approval of Electricity Policy
Statements by the Entities before the project was approved by the Bank. An Energy Sector
Study was prepared through a participatory and consultative process, partly affected by lack of
data, but nevertheless provides a basis for preparing sector and sub-sector strategies and a
framework for future sector studies. The three EPs, MOFTER, and the energy ministries of the
two Entity governments, and several national consultants contributed to the preparation of the
study and participation in several public meetings that took place. The Bank responded in a
flexible manner when more discussions were needed to develop a common understanding it
mobilized additional resources through the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
(PPIAF).

37.    The Bank and the development partners put in significant efforts in development of a
framework for sector restructuring that was acceptable to the competing stakeholders, consistent
with ECSEE, and commercially efficient. Restructuring study, new legal framework for sector
reforms, new regulation and regulatory institutions, and creating enabling frameworks for BiH to
sign EU pre-accession agreement, were some of the achievements made possible by the
sustained engagement of the Bank and development partners in the BiH energy sector.         The
sector was restructured to establish an Independent System Operator (by converting the
coordination center ZEKC into an ISO), a national Transmission company (Elektroprenos), and
two Entity and one State Regulatory Commission. However, efforts at building institutional
capacity in Transco and ISO were only partially successful.

38.    The project did not perform well on two components: (a) establishing a sustainable
business model for the national Transmission company, and (b) implementation of SCADA-
EMS in the sector companies. It achieved partial success on Financial Management Information



                                                16

System, and preparation of a national (State) energy strategy. The first two were financed by the
development partners. IDA financed the FMIS and preparation of an energy study that was to
underpin the development of strategy by the State and the Entities. Though the energy study was
completed, preparation of energy strategy was delayed.

    ·   On the single Transmission Company, deep disagreements have emerged among the
        power utilities and the two Entity governments. The disagreement spans a wide range of
        issues: Governance arrangements, management processes, investments and financing
        decisions, and staffing (the company has not yet evolved its own Human Resource
        policies and a common cadre of employees. The staff is drawn from the three EPs and
        work under different terms and conditions). It was expected that the Agreement on
        Principles of Energy Policies signed by the State and the two Entities, and ratified by
        their respective parliaments, would pave the way for finding a solution to this contentious
        issue but instead of reaching a resolution the disagreement has further deepened.

    ·   Implementation of SCADA was delayed and has not yet been completed. EBRD has
        extended its loan to enable completion, now expected to be completed in 2009.

    ·   FMIS was implemented, as designed, by EPHZHB and only partially by EPRS. EPBiH
        did not make much progress beyond the initial requirement definition. However, both
        EPRS and EPBiH now want to implement it throughout the companies and are using the
        funding from follow on project (ESCEE APL3) and their own resources.

    ·   The State Energy Strategy has not yet been prepared though it is fair to say that the
        Entities are making progress in preparing and finalizing their respective strategies. To the
        extent that the project had set out to achieve preparation of a national energy strategy it
        did not achieve that outcome.



Overall the project development objectives were achieved- reconstruction of the power system
was accomplished well in time and to high quality standards, ZEKC was converted into an ISO
and a new Transmission company established, Restructuring Action Plans prepared, energy
study was completed, the EPs reduced transmission and distribution losses, improved their
revenues and financial performance.
3.3     Efficiency

Economic

39.     A cost-benefit analysis was carried out using the same assumptions as at project appraisal
except where the data were available in a different form. Available information only permitted
the analysis to be carried out for the components for transmission and the Jablanica Hydropower
Plant, Units #5 and #6. The investments for these components accounted for two-thirds of the
total project cost. For other components, the analysis could not be carried out since Distribution
investments were either made directly by the donor or financing was not made available, and
investment in SCADA/EMS financed by EBRD is still ongoing and expected to be completed
only by 2010. Costs and benefits were evaluated at the conversion factor of Euro 1.00 =



                                                 17

US$1.4303 as of September 30, 2008. The overall net present value of benefits was estimated to
be US$1,678 million compared to US$1,166 million at appraisal. The internal economic rate of
return was estimated to be 78%, compared to 61% at appraisal.

40.     The transmission benefits are dominated by the impact of the enlarged transmission
capacity in allowing additional sales of electricity to be made. This benefit was measured using
willingness to pay for sales to final customers within BiH less the supply cost excluding
transmission. Willingness to pay was measured, as at appraisal, on the basis of the cost of
producing electricity from diesel generators. Since actual and forecast diesel oil prices are much
higher than estimated at appraisal, the ex-post internal rate of return on the transmission was
estimated to be 117%, compared to 62% at the time of appraisal.

41.     The only benefit measured for Jablanica was the increase in production in GWh in an
average hydrological year, estimated by EPBiH to be 12 GWh. This benefit was valued at the
export price of electricity. The present value of benefits using this measure is less than the
present value of costs. However, it is likely that the benefits of improved dam safety and life
extension that were not measured since they had not been evaluated at appraisal would make the
overall component economically justified.

Financial

42.     A project financial analysis was carried out for the same components.            The only
difference from the economic analysis is that the outage reductions due to the international
connections and the increased transmission capacity benefit were valued at the transmission
tariff. The financial internal rate of return was estimated to be 7% as against 32%.

43.     The big difference in results is due to (i) the exclusion in the ex-post analysis of some
components that had been included at appraisal; and (ii) a difference in the measure of the
expanded transmission capacity benefit. At appraisal the expanded transmission capacity benefit
was valued as the difference between the weighted average retail tariff and the costs of supply,
excluding transmission. At that time a regulated tariff for transmission did not exist. The ex-
post analysis used instead the transmission tariff that was introduced in 2006. As a result the
financial internal rate of return for transmission is estimated to be 8%. The SERC has not fixed
an allowed rate of return for Transco since the company is not privately owned. However, the
8% rate of return is acceptable when compared to allowed rates of return in other countries.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.

The project was prepared and implemented in a very complex political and economic
environment. Post-conflict reconstruction was combined with a progressively increasing reform
agenda. An energy study to provide comprehensive information to the stakeholders for future
decisions was completed; sector reforms were strengthened, and new institutions were
established to enable BiH to integrate into the regional electricity market; regional
interconnections were re-established; and stage was set through SCADA/EMS and FMIS to



                                                 18

modernize and improve governance of the sector entities. The three EPs improved their
operational and financial performance significantly.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

44.     A report, "Social Assessment of Electricity Consumers and Evaluation of Related Social
Protection Programs" was completed in 2003 by Ekonomski Institut, funded under the project.
Under the study, surveys of 1,500 households and 2 workshops with relevant stakeholders of the
sector were implemented. The study concluded that the electricity tariffs are already a heavy
burden on the poor and consideration must be given to the vulnerable population in case of tariff
increases. The study also indicated that the social protection program needs to be more targeted,
since the various existing programs based on social categories such as veterans, pensioners,
refugees, etc., do not necessarily target the economically disadvantaged well. The study also
suggests, at least for EPHZHB and EPRS, that improvement in collection and reduction in losses
would provide the resources to better provide for the disadvantaged. The shortfall, would need to
be covered either through budgetary support or cross subsidization by other consumer groups,
which seems to be an acceptable solution for most of the respondents of the survey.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening


45.     Very significant institutional changes were implemented through this project: After
carrying out a comprehensive analysis, sector restructuring plans to guide the reforms were
prepared and approved by the respective Entity Parliaments. Three Regulatory Commissions
were created and the Commissioners appointed.           Laws were enacted to create a single
Transmission company and an Independent System Operator. Agreement was achieved on
ownership and management of a single Transco/ISO (on which recently disagreements have
arisen). An integrated Financial Management Information System based on SAP software was
introduced and, seeing the benefits the three implementing agencies (EPs) are rolling it out
throughout each of the companies partly using their own resources. FMIS will not only improve
financial management, it will be extended to all business units including power generation and
trading.

46.     Further measures and review of sector reforms are necessary. For example, there is still
no clarity on the market operator, liberalization of the market is slow, there are delays in
development of generation capacity for export to the regional electricity market, and the
disagreements about Transco/ISO need to be resolved. Further opening of electricity market in
the region is likely to stimulate investments in generation and transmission. It is important that
clear and transparent rules are developed for attracting generation investments and to ensure that
the development benefits of export projects are captured for the citizens of Bosnia-Herzegovina.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


47.     Though some of the benefits, e.g. commercial sale of spare communication capacity of
SCADA system, use of pump-storage hydroelectric plant at Capljina have not yet been realized,
no unintended impacts were noticed.


                                                19

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

48.     Not Applicable

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

49.     Though there is a deepening disagreement among the Entities about ownership,
governance, and management of the Transmission Company, which is in turn delaying the much
needed investments in 110 kV network and possible delay in some potential investments in
generation projects, there is a strong motivation in the sector companies and other players to
strengthen integration with the regional electricity market. The outcomes linked to physical
investments, e.g. increased transmission and distribution capacity, operation of BiH system as a
single control area, reconnecting to UCTE, reduction of pollution from thermal plants, improved
availability and safety at hydro plants, have been realized and will likely sustain. Most of the
sector reforms and restructuring outcomes, e.g. unbundling, independent regulation, institutional
arrangements, improved information and management control systems will also sustain.
However, because of complex constitutional and political arrangements, there may be some
adjustments to the sector structure defined in the Restructuring Action Plans.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

50.     The Bank took the lead in designing the project and leveraged its small resources (US$35
million) to mobilize large amounts of co-financing (total project value of US$231 million). The
design was highly relevant to post-conflict reconstruction, including restoring/providing power
supply to returning refugees. Despite a very complex political and governance environment, the
Bank was able to achieve consensus among the State and the Entity governments, implementing
agencies, and development partners. High quality analytical and engineering studies were
prepared to identify the high priority investments through a very transparent criteria. Sector
restructuring plans were prepared with intense consultation. A social assessment was prepared
through the project to provide protection to the vulnerable consumers.

(b)     Quality of Supervision

        Rating: Satisfactory

51.     Supervision of investments, procurement and financial management, was carried out
well, and the sector and country team spent considerable efforts and resources on continuous
engagement with the client to ensure implementation of policy, institutional, and enterprise


                                                20

commercialization activities. Due to a complex and difficult political environment, the team had
to facilitate the dialogue among the stakeholders and development partners.            Seeing the
difficulties in emergence of consensus on the Energy Study, the team mobilized additional
resources to hire reputed sector experts from within the region to conduct consultations and
dialogue at high political and enterprise level. Some of the consultation workshops, e.g., on
environmental issues in Mostar, attracted considerable interest and participation of civil society.
Though, the Energy Study was limited by data quality on some aspects, such as wood
consumption (data which is always hard to get except through extrapolation of samples), it was
considered a good quality, comprehensive, document that is being extensively used by the power
utilities, policy makers, civil society, and the development partners. During the early years of
project implementation the task team had to put in substantially higher efforts in supervision
compared to average Bank projects.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

        Rating: Satisfactory

52.     The Bank took great care in designing the project, identifying high priority investments,
assisting in design and implementation of sector reforms and restructuring plans that helped the
country to integrate into the regional electricity market, and carried out intensive consultations
with the stakeholders through preparation and implementation. The client and the development
partners have been very complimentary of the role of the Bank and the performance of the task
teams.

5.2      Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

53.     The Entities helped their respective power companies to implement the physical
investments and improve their operational and financial performance. However, the complex
political and governance arrangements rendered the participation of MOFTER less effective. A
more clearly defined mandate, better resources, and acceptance by the Entities of the need for a
national level coordination institution, would be necessary for an orderly and faster development
of the energy sector in BiH.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance


Rating: Satisfactory

54.     The Borrower and the implementing agencies took ownership of the project, and
demonstrated a high degree of commitment. Though the project effectiveness was delayed it



                                                21

was beyond their control due to political instability, elections, and delay in formation of
government. Despite the delays the physical investments were carried out diligently after the
project became effective and implementation started.           However, there were delays in
implementation of technical assistance activities, and contractual disputes arose with one of the
consultants because of an apparent conflict of interest of one of the associates of that consulting
firm.

6.     Lessons Learned

55.    Some of the factors that contributed to the successful implementation of the project, and
lessons learnt for other and future projects in Bosnia-Herzegovina, are:

    ·  Need for high quality feasibility studies for preparation of investments within an overall
       plan that is agreed by the stakeholders, and a transparent criteria for selection of schemes;

    ·  Sector reforms and restructuring should be based on high quality analytical work,
       meaningful consultation and participation of stakeholders, and should be backed by
       political commitment;

    ·  Design of sector restructuring and the pace of its implementation should be owned and
       endorsed by the major stakeholders.

    ·  The success of FMIS indicates that pilots for demonstration, and familiarization of the
       staff with new technologies, should be carried out before introducing a major change in
       business processes and sophisticated IT tools.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

       (a) Borrower/implementing agencies


       (b) Cofinanciers


       The Bank had an energy expert posted in its Sarajevo office to supervise the Bank's
       energy sector program and post-conflict reconstruction support. Soon after conclusion of
       preparation of Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project, the Bank's energy expert left
       the Sarajevo office. USAID has commented that the Bank should have posted a full time
       energy expert in the field to fill the gap. However, the team is of the view that the TTL
       for this project was spending enormous amount of time on policy dialogue and
       implementation supervision, and was in almost daily contact with the counterparts.
       Given the pace of reforms, and significant presence of donors in the field, presence of a
       full time energy expert in the Bank's Country office may not have necessarily helped
       accelerate sector reforms.

       (c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                                 22

                               Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)     Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
             Components                  Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest          Percentage of
                                           (USD millions)       Estimate (USD             Appraisal
                                                                   millions)
1. TRANSMISSION LINES                              26.54              26.00                98.0%
2. TRANSMISSION                                    55.22              65.26                118.2%
SUBSTATIONS
3. SCADA                                           39.06              31.54                80.7%
4. DISTRIBUTION                                    38.98                0.00                0.00
5. HYDROPOWER STATIONS                             20.40              20.16                98.8%
6. ENVIRONMENTAL                                   14.99              17.85                119.1%
INVESTMENTS
7. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                            13.38                4.70               35.2%


                Total Baseline Cost               208.51             165.51                79.4%
Physical Contingencies
                                                   13.54                0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                     9.09               0.00                0.00
                 Total Project Costs              231.13             165.51                71.6%
Front-end fee PPF                                    0.00               0.00                0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.00               0.00                0.00
         Total Financing Required                 231.13             165.51                71.6%



(b)     Financing
                                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                  Type of                                   Percentage of
               Source of Funds                                  Estimate       Estimate
                                                Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                              (USD millions) (USD millions)
US: Agency for International Development
                                                                 19.80          0.00            0%
(USAID)
Borrower                                                         0.00           0.00            0%
UK: British Department for International
                                                                 1.00           0.00            0%
Development (DFID)
European Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                                 44.20          44.46          100.6%
Development
EC: Assistance for South East Europe                             1.80           0.44           24.5%
EC: European Investment Bank                                     53.60          56.80          106.0%
SPAIN, Govt. of                                                  18.00          0.00            0%
International Development Association (IDA)                      35.00          28.00          80.0%
GERMANY: KREDITANSTALT FUR
                                                                 2.90           2.00           134.1%
WIEDERAUFBAU (KFW)
NORWAY: Norwegian Agency for Dev. Coop.
                                                                 6.20           0.00            0%
(NORAD)
Local Sources of Borrowing Country                               21.00          20.13          95.9%
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                   13.60          0.00            0%
SWITZERLAND: Swiss Agency for Dev. &
                                                                 14.00          13.68          97.7%
Coop. (SDC)
Note: EUR/US$ = 0.9791 (ECB reference rate as of Jan 31, 2000)



                                                     23

                                      Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                    Table 1: Project Cost by Component



                              EPBiH              EPHZHB              EPRS            TOTAL

(US$ 000)             appraisal       actual appraisal actual  appraisal actual appraisal actual
A.1
Transmission
lines                     11,563      9,947    4,150   3,834    10,825   12,217  26,538   25,998
A.2
Transmission
substations               15,395     14,944    16,658  17,624   23,169   32,693  55,222   65,261

B. SCADA*                             7,533            8,661             15,343  39,060   31,536

C. Hydropower
Stations                  14,049     13,680    3,144   3,725     3,203   2,753   20,396   20,159

D. Thermal
power stations             8,118      9,282        -         -   6,869   8,571   14,987   17,853
E. Distribution           14,948           -   10,665        -  13,364        -  38,977        -

F. Technical
Assistance                  -         1,069            2,466             1,167   13,380   4,703

TOTAL                     64,073     56,455    34,617  36,311   57,430   72,744 208,560   165,510

Euro/US$ = 0.9791 (as of January 31, 2000)

* SCADA investments have not been completed




                                                     24

                                                                        Table 2: Project Financing by Component
                                                                                                                                             Own
                                          IDA            EBRD           EIB       SECO       KfW       DFID    USAID**  EC    Spain  NORAD  Funds
(USD million)
           EPBiH                        10.29            16.81          14.94     13.68      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.73
A. Transmission                          9.22             0.00          14.94      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.73
B. SCADA                                 0.00             7.53          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
C. Hydropower Stations                   0.00             0.00          0.00      13.68      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
D. Thermal power
stations                                 0.00             9.28          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
E. Distribution                          0.00             0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
F. Technical Assistance                  1.07             0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00


         EPHZHB                          7.75             8.67          17.62      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.44   0.00   0.00   1.85
A. Transmission lines                    3.09             0.00          17.62      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.74
B. SCADA                                 0.00             8.67          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
C. Hydropower Stations                   2.62             0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   1.10
D. Thermal power
stations                                 0.00             0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
E. Distribution                          0.00             0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
F. Technical Assistance                  2.04             0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.44   0.00   0.00   0.00


            EPRS                         9.96            18.98          24.24      0.00      2.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   17.56
A. Transmission lines                    8.79             0.00          24.24      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   11.88
B. SCADA                                 0.00            11.79          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   3.55
C. Hydropower Stations                   0.00             0.00          0.00       0.00      2.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.75
D. Thermal power
stations                                 0.00             7.19          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   1.38
E. Distribution                          0.00             0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
F. Technical Assistance                  1.17             0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00


          TOTAL                         28.00            44.46          56.80     13.68      2.00      0.00     0.00    0.44   0.00   0.00   20.13
* EUR/US$ = 0.9791 (ECB reference rate as of Jan 31, 2000)
** USAID carried out investments in distribution system strengthening through
contractors directly hired by it, instead of providing funds to the EPs.




                                                                                           25

Output of IDA financed components

   ¾ Rehabilitation of high voltage transmission lines (one each for the 400 kV and 220 kV
       lines) was completed between August 2004 and June 2005. Detailed final report on the
       work performed was prepared by the implementation consultants.
   ¾ Rehabilitation of Rama Hydropower plant was started in July 2004 and completed by
       September 2004, ahead of schedule. A detailed report on rehabilitation work was
       prepared by the consultants.       Savings from the Credit were used for undertaking
       additional rehabilitation work with additional counterpart funds provided by EPHZHB.
   ¾ The social assessment study was completed by 2004 and final report submitted by the
       consultants to the implementing agencies and the government.
   ¾ Contract for the Energy Study was delayed and finally signed in late 2006. Because of
       delay in finalization of the study the project closing had to be extended. During the
       course of the study it was felt that more extensive consultations should be carried out to
       resolve the different points of view and also deeper engagement with the stakeholders.
       The Bank mobilized additional funds through Energy Sector Management Assistance
       Program (ESMAP) to engage reputed experts from the region and to conduct additional
       consultation workshops.
   ¾ Implementation of Financial Management Information System experienced long delays.
       The consultants for preparation of requirement definition, technical specifications, and
       bidding documents were engaged in late 2005.            Only EP Mostar completed the
       installation of FMIS before the final project closure in May 2008 while EPRS carried out
       only partial implementation in the holding company, one generation and one distribution
       subsidiary. Implementation in EPBiH did not go beyond preparation of initial draft
       bidding document. However, both EPBiH and EPRS have since decided to implement
       not only FMIS but also roll the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) through all the
       functions of their companies.
   ¾ Distribution network strengthening was implemented by USAID through contractors
       hired by it directly instead of providing funds to the EPs. In addition, Spain did not
       provide the promised financing of US$7 million.

Output of Co-financed components

EBRD: Progress in implementation of the EBRD-financed SCADA-EMS has been slow and it is
currently under implementation. Environmental upgrades at thermal power plants in EPBiH
have been completed with considerable delays.

EIB: Implementation of investments under the EIB loan for the rehabilitation of transmission
substations proceeded well.     Installation of most of the equipment initially planned to be
financed was completed. Substantial savings resulted from the amount allocated to the originally
envisaged contracts, and additional equipment were purchased with these savings.

USAID: USAID financing of rehabilitation of distribution components under the project was
completed, and more than 45,000 households were reconnected in seven villages in Kojic
municipality and several settlements in Mostar.      The technical assistance covering various
reform aspects made good progress; however the institutional capacity building of the ISO for
development of market rules was considerably delayed- partly for reasons of disputes that arose
among the Entities and the EPs on Transco/ISO.


                                               26

Switzerland: Rehabilitation of Units 5 and 6 at Jablanica Hydropower Plant, as well as the
reconstruction of associated 110 kV switchgear and spillway gates, all financed by Switzerland,
were completed. Savings from these contracts were utilized for additional works, spare parts and
studies in order to optimize further the Plant's operation and to increase the sustainability of
effected investments.

Norway: Norway's financing of rehabilitation of distribution components was completed.

KfW: The KfW-financed safety and availability-related investments at the Trebinje Hydropower
Plant (Phase 1) were completed. Phase 2 for the rehabilitation of major components (turbine,
generator, etc.) was launched in February 2005 and was subsequently completed.
Implementation consultants were engaged to help with implementation.

EC: The EC-financed technical assistance to the Elektroprivredas for financial management
systems was completed in October 2003. This formed the basis of subsequent support through
the IDA project.

DFID: The work of the Consultants retained by DFID to provide technical assistance to ZEKC
in the establishment of the ISO was completed on February 28, 2005. The Consultants assisted
in the development of business processes, book of rules, grid code, organizational structure and
training. In their final report, the Consultants included recommendations on further technical
assistance required by the ISO.

CIDA: The work of the CIDA-financed Consultants under the Southeast European Electrical
System Technical Support Project (SEETEC) primarily covered issues having a regional
perspective and the financing of the assignment of the Advisor to the Department of Energy in
MOFTER and was concluded on March 31, 2007. Their assistance in the establishment of
Transco was also completed, and EC-financed Consultants continued assisting Transco until
December 2007.

Spain: The provision of financing of US$ 7 million by the Government of Spain for the
rehabilitation of distribution components was finally cancelled after the parties could not resolve
their differences on procedures and procurement approach.




                                               27

                       Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Assumptions for the Economic Analysis

  ·  Investments The total foreign and local costs for each category of investments are the
     actual values in US dollars shown in the Detailed Project Cost Table. The allocation
     between years was provided by the Elektroprivredas.
  ·  O&M for Transmission Assumed to be equal to 2% of the investments per year.
  ·  Benefits of the Gacko-Mostar transmission line (i) Based on data provided by Transco,
     this line has resulted in reduced transmission losses of 5.2 GWh per year, which are
     valued at the export price. Projected prices are assumed to be equal to the 2008 export
     price of US$0.08/kWh. (ii) No benefit was registered for transfer of power on behalf of
     Croatia. (iii) Rehabilitation did not affect production at Gacko since it had been possible
     to send all power produced at the plant to market even before the transmission line
     rehabilitation was completed.
  ·  Benefits of the Visegrad-Tuzla transmission line. (i) Based on data provided by
     Transco, this line has resulted in reduced transmission losses of 9.6 GWh per year, which
     are valued at the export price in the same way as for the Gacko-Mostar line. (ii)
     Rehabilitation did not affect production at Visegrad since it had been possible to send all
     power produced at the plant to market even before the transmission line was rehabilitated.
  ·  Benefits from international connections (i) Reductions in outages attributable to these
     connections were measured in the same way as at appraisal. It was assumed that in the
     absence of the connections there would be one additional transmission outage in 2004
     lasting for 6 hours and affecting the whole transmission system, two such outages in
     2005, and so on until the number of additional outages reaches 14. Transmission system
     use projections are the lowest of four scenarios prepared by the ISO. Demand growth is
     shown to decrease from 2.21% in 2009 to 1.90% by 2014. Un-served energy attributable
     to the outages was valued at US0.25/kWh as at appraisal. Net benefits were estimated by
     subtracting the estimated supply cost from this value. The supply cost was assumed to be
     equal to the weighted average retail tariff, which was about US$0.10/kWh from 2005
     through 2007 and US$0.15/ kWh in 2008, and assumed to remain at this level thereafter.
     (ii) No wheeling benefits were identified by Transco resulting from the international
     connections.
  ·  Transmission benefits from resumption of pumped storage at Capljina At the time of
     appraisal it was expected that the rehabilitation of transmission would permit the
     resumption of pumped storage at Capljina. This did occur, but pumped storage operation
     was hardly used at all from 2005 through 2007 and not at all in 2008 since it was not
     profitable to do so in competition with electricity available from other countries. No
     benefits are shown for resumption of pumped storage at Capljina.
  ·  Transmission benefits from additional sales The rehabilitated transmission system is
     assumed to be able to accommodate additional demand of 774 GWh in 2005 (one year
     after the extra capacity was estimated to be available in the PAD because of delay in
     implementing the investment program) up to 2,700 GWh. Based on projections of
     growth in electricity demand prepared by the ISO of about 2.2% per year from 2008
     through 2013 and 1.9% per year after 2013 the maximum capacity would be reached by
     2013. The benefits of the increase in transmission capacity were valued at willingness to



                                              28

      pay by final consumers (based on the alternative of diesel generators as was done at
      appraisal) less supply cost (excluding transmission cost), which was assumed to be equal
      to the weighted average retail tariff. Willingness to pay was estimated to increase from
      US$0.25/kWh in 2005 to US$0.45/kWh in 2008, fall to US$0.22/kWh in 2009 and rise
      gradually to US$0.36/kWh in 2015 and after. The historical and forecast oil prices used
      for the calculations are World Bank estimates made in January 2009. The weighted
      average tariff was about US$0.10/kWh from 2005 through 2007 and US$0.15/kWh in
      2008. It is assumed to continue at US$0.15/kWh. The transmission tariff is assumed to
      be the present level of US$0.006/kWh for all years.
  ·   Jablanica costs. The SECO-investments for Units #5 and #6 began in 1999 before the
      IDA-financed component of Power 3 became effective. The costs consist entirely of
      investments.
  ·   Jablanica benefits. The benefits in terms of additional hydropower production in
      average hydrological years are 12 GWh. They are valued at the export price of
      US$0.052/kWh in 2005, US$0.043/kWh in 2006 and 2007, and US$0.08/kWh in 2008
      and thereafter. The present value of these benefits is less than the present value of the
      investments. However, the safety and life extension benefits of the rehabilitation were
      not taken into account at the time of appraisal and thus were not estimated for the ICR.
  ·   Trebinje benefits. Information was not available concerning possible increases in
      production at Trebinje resulting from rehabilitation under the project.
  ·   Distribution costs and benefits. The distribution component carried out with USAID
      financing was handled independently by USAID, which did its own procurement of the
      supply and installation of equipment. The Elektroprivredas were unable to provide
      enough data to permit an ex-post analysis to be carried out.
  ·   SCADA/EMS. Since this EBRD-financed component had not been completed at the
      time the ICR was prepared there were no ex-post benefits that could be used for a cost-
      benefit analysis.

Assumptions for the Financial Analysis

The same assumptions were used for the financial analysis with the following exceptions:

  ·   The reductions in transmission outages resulting from rehabilitation of the international
      connections were valued at the transmission tariff of US$0.006/kWh, which came into
      effect in 2006. It is assumed to remain at this level to the end of the forecast period.
  ·   Additional sales were valued at the transmission tariff.




                                              29

                                               BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                        THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT

                                               PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS

                                                       (US$ million)

                                                                                                    NPV       EIRR

                      1999  2000  2001   2002    2003  2004     2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2028  (at 12%)

Transmission Costs

Investment                            0    8.9   16.9   53.6     32.0 12.7   2.3   0.6   0.0      0    $79.0

O&M                                   0      0       0   1.3     1.6   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8      $9.6

Subtotal                              0    8.9   16.9   54.9     33.6 14.5   4.1   2.4   1.8   1.8     $88.6

Trans. Benefits

Gacko-Mostar                          0      0       0    0.2     0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.3      $4.1

Visegrad-Tuzla                        0      0       0    0.3     0.4   0.4   0.6   0.8   0.8   0.8      $3.5

Internet connections                  0      0       0    1.1     2.2   3.4   4.7   3.9   3.9   3.9     $19.1

Loss Red. & Capljina                  0      0       0

Additional Sales                      0      0       0      0  120.7  185.4 247.8  449   133  583.2 $1,744.6

Subtotal                              0      0       0   1.6   123.5  189.4 253.4 453.7 138.0 588.2 $1,771.3

Net Benefits                          0   -8.9   -16.9 -53.2     89.9 174.9 249.4 451.2 136.2 586.4 $1,682.7  117%

Distribution Costs

Investment

Other

Subtotal

Dist. Benefits

Red. unserved energy

Additional sales

Subtotal

Net Benefits

Jablanica #5 and #6

Costs                  2.2   2.3   4.9     5.1    1.6    0.1     0.4                                   $11.7

Benefits                                                         0.6   0.5   0.5   1.0   1.0   1.0      $6.5

Net Benefits           -2.2 -2.3   -4.9   -5.1    -1.6   -0.1    0.3   0.5   0.5   1.0   1.0   1.0     ($8.4)

Hydro - Trebinje #1

Costs

Benefits

Net Benefits

SCADA/EMS Costs

Investment

O&M

Subtotal

SCADA Benefits

Salary savings

Red. unserved energy

Spare commun. rev.

Subtotal

Net Benefits

Total Costs             2.2  2.3    4.9  14.0     18.5  54.9     33.9  14.5   4.1   2.4   1.8   1.8   $100.3

Total Benefits            0     0     0      0       0    1.6  124.1  189.9 254.0 454.6 139.0 589.1 $1,777.8

Net Benefits          -2.24  -2.3 -4.91 -13.99  -18.51  -53.3    90.2 175.4 249.9 452.2 137.2 587.3 $1,677.5  78%




                                                            30

                                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                       THIRD ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT

                                              PROJECT FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

                                                     (US$ million)

                                                                                               NPV       EIRR

                        1999 2000 2001  2002   2003  2004   2005   2006  2007  2008  2009 2028 (at 12%)

Transmission Costs

Investment                           0   8.9   16.9   53.6   32.0  12.7    2.3   0.6  0.0    0    $79.0

O&M                                  0      0      0  1.3      1.6   1.8   1.8   1.8  1.8  1.8     $9.6

Subtotal                             0   8.9   16.9   54.9   33.6  14.5    4.1   2.4  1.8  1.8    $88.6

Trans. Benefits

Gacko-Mostar                         0      0      0  0.2      0.2   0.2   0.3   0.4  0.4  0.4     $1.9

Visegrad-Tuzla                       0      0      0  0.3      0.4   0.4   0.6   0.8  0.8  0.8     $3.5

Internat. connections                0      0      0  0.0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0     $0.2

Loss Red.& Capljina                  0      0      0                       0.0     0

Additional Sales                     0      0      0     0     4.6   5.4   6.3   8.8 10.5 16.2    $56.2

Subtotal                             0      0      0  0.5      5.2   6.1   7.4 10.0  11.7 17.4     61.9

Net Benefits                         0   -8.9  -16.9 -54.3  -28.3   -8.4   3.3   7.6  9.9 15.6     -26.7   8%

Distribution Costs

Investment

Other

Subtotal

Dist. Benefits

Red. unserved energy

Additional sales

Subtotal

Net Benefits

Jablanica #5 and #6

Costs                    2.2  2.3  4.9   5.1    1.6   0.1      0.4                                $11.7

Benefits                                                       0.6   0.5   0.5   0.8  1.0  1.0     $6.4

Net Benefits            -2.2 -2.3 -4.9   -5.1   -1.6  -0.1 0.224   0.516 0.516 0.792 0.96 0.96      -5.3

Hydro - Trebinje #1

Costs

Benefits

Net Benefits

SCADA/EMS Costs

Investment

O&M

Subtotal

SCADA Benefits

Salary savings

Red. unserved energy

Spare commun. rev.

Subtotal

Net Benefits

Total Costs              2.2  2.3  4.9  14.0   18.5   55.0   34.0  14.5    4.1   2.4  1.8  1.8    100.3

Total Benefits             0    0    0      0      0  0.5      5.9   6.6   7.9 10.8  12.7 18.4     68.3

Net Benefits            -2.2 -2.3 -4.9 -13.98 -18.47 -54.4  -28.1   -7.9   3.8   8.4 10.9 16.6     -32.0   7%




                                                       31

       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

                                (a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
            Names                          Title              Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Mohinder Gulati           Country Sector Coordinator         ECSSD
Amarquaye Armar           Program Manager                    ETWES
Iftikhar Khalil           Program Manager                    ECSSD
Bernard Baratz            Consultant                         EASTE
Johannes C. Exel          Consultant                         AFTEG
Vesna Francic             Senior Operations Officer          ECSSD
Siew Chai Ting            Lead Finance Officer               LOAFC
Felix Martin              Economist                          ECSSD
Richard E. Hamilton       Consultant                         ECSSD
Ana Bjerde                Sector Manager                     MNSSD
Migara Jayawardena        Senior Infrastructure Specialist   EASTE
Laszlo Jamniczky          Consultant                         ECSSD
                                                             ECSIE-
Peter Kelly               Consultant
                                                               HIS
Kishore Nadkarni          Consultant                         ECSSD
Demetrios Papathanasiou   Sr Energy Econ.                    ECSSD
Sanjay N. Vani            Lead Financial Management Spec     OPCFM
Angelica Fernandes        Procurement Analyst                 ECSPS
Yolanda Gedse             Program Assistant                  ECSSD




                                            32

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
   Stage of Project Cycle                              USD Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY98                                                              3.92
 FY99                                                             34.45
 FY00                                  128                      312.99
 FY01                                   24                        98.31
 FY02                                                              0.05
 FY03                                                              0.00
 FY04                                                              0.09
 FY05                                                              0.02




                          Total:       152                      449.83
Supervision/ICR
 FY98                                                              0.00
 FY99                                                              0.84
 FY00                                     1-                      -1.10
 FY01                                                              0.10
 FY02                                   13                        80.05
 FY03                                   20                      119.04
 FY04                                   20                      153.53
 FY05                                   17                      132.90
 FY06                                   13                        72.94
 FY07                                   22                      104.06
 FY08                                   17                        76.49
 FY09                                                             27.88

                          Total:       121                      738.85




                                      33

         Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Significant inputs to the ICR were provided by the implementing agencies, and drafts reviewed
by the Recipient, the Entity governments, and the implementing agencies. The ICR team held
consultations with them during a mission in March 2009 and discussed an early draft. After
incorporating their comments, a revised draft was sent for their final comments. These comments
have since been incorporated.




                                              34

          Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


The ICR was reviewed by several co-financers and other stakeholders. European Investment
Bank, KfW, Norwegian Embassy, Office of High Representative, and Canadian Embassy
informed that they do not have any comments on the ICR. Comments received from USAID are
appended below:

International assistance up to The Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project ("Power III")
focused on physical infrastructure restoration. Power III provided the opportunity to begin the
process for overall sector reform that was international in character. The US Agency for
International Development (USAID) energy assistance program also gave much greater
emphasis to the critical sector reform issues after the significant reconstruction period preceding
2000. The extended World Bank-USAID-Government of BiH dialogue on the proposed reform
agenda for the period of Power III required postponement of the original Board date for one year.
As a result of extensive negotiations, agreement was reached for the establishment of a single
Transmission Company (Transco), a State Regulator with authority over the Transco and two
entity regulators with authority over generation and distribution.

USAID agreed to provide the technical assistance support for the implementation of the sector
and institutional reforms and engaged management consultants and legal advisors to provide
assistance over the life of Power III. Work was initiated in September 2001 at the time of the
Power III startup. The management consultants developed the Restructuring and Privatization
Study that was the basis for the entity Action Plans that were ultimately approved. The legal
advisors worked from 2001-2007 to develop the State laws establishing the Transco, the
Independent System Operator (ISO) and the State Energy Regulatory Commission (SERC) and
the entity laws establishing the two entity energy regulatory bodies. Extensive effort was
expended on the establishment of the regulatory bodies in particular and DFID provided support
for the ISO institutional development. The USAID energy sector reform assistance continued
with the provision of technical assistance continuing in 2007 through 2011. Approximately $10
million in USAID financed technical assistance was provided over the decade.

The Completion Report accurately describes the complexity of the reform process (section 17
(a)) including the number of organizations involved--Bosnian, donor and international.
Complicating the complexity cited was the underlying concern about sector corruption identified
in the OSCE forensic audit. This complicated environment combined with the resistance to fully
implement the transmission company, the incomplete financial management reforms and
contested (EBRD) SCADA system implementation leads to a conclusion that the Project would
have benefited from the presence of a full time energy sector expert in the World Bank local
office to focus on the institutional reforms and lead and strengthen the donor dialogue and
efforts.




                                                35

                  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.  Project Appraisal Document dated May 24, 2001, and the Legal Agreements.
2.  Aide memoire of the supervision missions, related Implementation Supervision
    Reports, and back-to-office reports.
3.  Mid-term review report February 2004.
4.  Project Monitoring Reports submitted by the implementing agencies.
5.  Inputs provided by the EPs for Implementation Completion Reports through several
    emails and reports between January and April 2009.
6.  Energy Study Report March 2008.
7.  Social Assessment of Electricity Consumers and Evaluation of Related Social
    Protection Programs report dated April 2004.




                                        36

                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 30803
                16°                                        17°                                                   18°                                                     19°

                                                                                          C R O A T I A                                                                                       Danube
                                Meduric´
                                                                             Bosanska                             S. Brod
V. Kladusa
                           Mraclin                                           Gradiska
                                                                                                                                   Djakovo
                                                                                                                                                     Zupanja
                                                                                                                                                     
                  Vrnograc                                                                         Bosanski
                                                      B. Dubica                                         Brod
                                                                                         Srbac                                                              Ernestinovo
                                                                                                Sava
                                                                               N. Topola                                 Odzak                                                                                        45°
                      Bosanski Novi                                                                                                          B. Samac
45°Cazin                                                                                                                  Bosna   Modrica
                        Bosanska                                                Laktasi
                                                                                                        Derventa
                                                  TS Prijedor 2
                                                  TS Prijedor
                   Una    Krupa
                                                                                                 Prnjavor                TS Gradacac
                                                                                                                                   
  TS Bihac´ 1                                                             TS Banja Luka
                                                                          TS Banja Luka 6                                                                           Brcko
                                                                                                                                                                                    Bijeljina
                                                                                  Ukrina               Stanari                 Srebrenik                        TS Ugljevik
                                 Sanski Most                                                                                                                                                       Lesnica
                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                            Doboj
                                                                                                                                                                            TP Ugljevik
                                  Sanica                             Vrbas                                                      Gracanica
                                                                                  Kotor Varos                                  Lukavac          TP           Tuzla Centar
                                                                                                           Tesanj                              Tuzla                                           Osecina
                                                                                                                                                                                                   

         Kulen Vakuf                                                      HP Bocac               Teslic´      Maglaj                                             Dubrave
                                   Bosanski                                                                                                                                       Glinica
                                             Kljuc                                                                                                                                            Lesnica
                                                                                                                                                                                               
             D. Lapac              Petrovac                                                                               Zavidovici´
                                                                                                                          Zavidovici                   TS Tuzla     Zvornik                    Loznica

 CROATIA                                                  Mrkonjic               HP Jajce 1                                    Banovici´
                                                                                                                                                        Durdevik
                                                           Grad                                                                                                                         HP Zvornik
                                                                                                                                                                      Sakovica´
              L. Dugopolje                                                                     Sjever
                                   Drvar                                                         Jug                                                                                                Drina
                                                                                                                                                         Kladanj
                                                                 TS Jajce 2          Travnik
                                                                                                                     TS Zenica 2
                                                                                      Donji        Vitez                                                                  Vlasenica
                                                                                      Vakuf                                        Vares                                                          Srebrenica
                EVP Strmica        B. Grahovo                                                  Busovaca
                                                           Glamoc                      Bugojno           TP Kakanj
                                                                                                         TP Kakanj                                                                             HP B. Basta
                                                                          Kupres                                                                                                                                      44°
                                                                                                            SG Kakanj
                                                                                                            SG Kakanj            Ilijas                             Sokolac
44°                        Knin                                                               Gornji
                                                                                              Vakuf              Visoko
                                                                                                                 TS Sarajevo 10
                                                                                                                 TS Sarajevo 10
                                                                                                                                                       Pale                                     TS Visegrad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pozega
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                Livno                                                                                               Rogatica
                                                                                                                                               TS Sarajevo 20
                                                                                                                                               TS Sarajevo 20
                                                                                                    HP Rama                 Pazaric´
                                                                                                                            Pazaric
                                                                              Tomislavgrad                                                                                           HP Visegrad
                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                            Peruca
                                                 ´              B. Blato                                                                                                                                  Rudo
                                                                                     SG Jablanica
                                                                                     SG Jablanica                                                                             Gorazde
                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                     Konjic
                                                                                                                     Konjic
                                                                                     HP Jablanica
                                                                                     HP Jablanica
                                                    Kraljevac                    HP Grabovica
                                                Konjsko                                                                   Neretva                                                                            Potpec´
                                                                                                                                                                Foca
                                                                                     HP Salakovac                                                                                          Pljevlja
                                                         Zakucac                          HP Mostar
                                                             Kraljevac

                                                                                   Grude                          TS Mostar 2Nevesinje
                                                                                                                  TS Mostar
                                                                                        TS Mostar 4
                                                                                          Citluk
                                                                                                                                                     TP Gacko                 Piva          FEDERAL
                                                                                     Liubuski
                                                                                                                  TS Mostar 3

                                                                            Makarsko                                                 TS Gacko                                              REPUBLIC
                                                                                            Capljina                 Stolac
                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF                 43°
                                                                                    Opuzen
43°                                                                                                       PHP                                                                        YUGOSLAVIA
                                                                                                       Capljina
                                                                                           Neum                                                   Bileca
                                                                                                                                                      ´                                     (SERBIA /
     A d r i a t i c             S e a                                                           Ston                                              HP Trebinje                      MONTENEGRO)

                                                                                                                  Ston     TS Trebinje
                                                                                                                           TS rebinje                                Niksic ´

                                                                                                                     Komolac
                 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                                                                                                                   Podgorica


            THIRD ELECTRIC POWER                                                                             HP Dubrovnik                             H. Novi

     RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT                                                                                                                   0              25                    50                    75 KILOMETERS


                                PROJECT
                  EXISTING    COMPONENT
                                            TRANSMISSION LINES:                                                                             LUX.  10°                              20°                           30°  50°
                                                                                                                                                             CZECH               POLAND                    UKRAINE
                                              400 kV                                                                                                            REP.
                                                                                                                                                GERMANY

                                              220 kV                                                                                                                          SLOVAK   REP.
                                                                                                                                     FRANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                                           SWITZ.         AUSTRIA
                                              110 kV                                                                                                                       HUNGARY

                                                                                                                             42°                           SLOVENIA                           ROMANIA
42°                                         HYDRO POWER PLANTS                                                                                                      CROATIA
                                                                                       This map was produced by the
                                            THERMAL POWER PLANTS                       Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                   Adriatic     BOSNIA AND
                                                                                                                                                                         HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations                                                         FED. REP.
                                            SUBSTATIONS                                                                                                                                OF                           Black
                                                                                       and any other information shown on                            ITALY                         YUGOSLAVIA
                                                                                                                                                                    Sea           (SERB./MONT.)   BULGARIA          Sea
                                                                                       this map do not imply, on the part of
                                            RIVERS                                     The World Bank Group, any judgment                                         Area of map             FYR
                                                                                                                                                                                       MACEDONIA
                                                                                       on the legal status of any territory, or
                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                    ALBANIA
                                                                                       any endorsement or acceptance of             40°                                                                               40°
                                                                                                                                                 Tyrrhenian                                                            30°
                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                   such boundaries.                                             Sea                                 GREECE     Aegean
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sea      TURKEY
                 16°                                            17°                                                     18°                   10°                                   20°

                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAY 2000

