                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35427

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-36120 FSLT-71020)

                                                  ON A

                                             LOAN/CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.3 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                               ST. LUCIA

                                                FOR AN

                                 EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                               June 9, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 15, 2006)

                             Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC)
                          (EC) Dollars 2.70 = US$ 1
                                     US$ 1 = Dollars (EC) 2.70

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                  April 1 to March 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CARICOM Caribbean Community
CCTV    Closed Circuit Television
CMU     Country Management Unit
DCA     Directorate of Civil Aviation
FAA     Federal Aviation Administration
FMR     Financial Management Report
ERP     Emergency Recovery Project
EU      European Union
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO    International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA     International Development Association
IMO     International Maritime Organization
ISPS    International Ship and Port Security
OECS    Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
SLASPA  Saint Lucia Air and Sea Ports Authority
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
TSA     Transportation Security Agency




                            Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                          Country Director      Caroline D. Anstey
                            Sector Manager      John Henry Stein
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Francis Ghesquiere

                                          ST. LUCIA
                                Emergency Recovery Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P077687                                                  Project Name: St. Lucia Emergency Recovery Project
Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere                                      TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 9, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: St. Lucia Emergency Recovery Project                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-36120; FSLT-71020
   Country/Department: ST. LUCIA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Aviation (41%); Power (40%); Ports, waterways and shipping (15%); Central government
                            administration (4%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/27/2001                                     Effective: 07/10/2002                07/10/2002
     Appraisal: 01/17/2002                                         MTR: 02/25/2004                  02/25/2004
      Approval: 03/07/2002                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ST. LUCIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Maria Emilia Freire
Team Leader at ICR:             Francis Ghesquiere                             Arnaud Guinard
ICR Primary Author:             Marc Forni


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

    The original objectives of the project were to: (i) help safeguard and maintain the productive
    capacity of St. Lucia's tourism sector, notably by securing the industry's energy needs in the
    aftermath of the September 11, 2001 events; (ii) enhance security at key airport and seaport
    facilities in line with international standards, with the aim of preventing further acts of
    terrorism and safeguarding the sub-region's image as a safe tourism destination; and (iii)
    strengthen the country's institutional capacity to develop and implement security plans,
    procedures and measures as mandated by the international civil aviation and maritime
    transport regulatory agencies.

    The St. Lucia Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) is part of a five country emergency
    recovery program. Other countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS),
    including St. Vincent and the Grenadines, St. Kitts and Nevis, Dominica and Grenada took
    part in the program. Project documentation for the program comprises one Memorandum of
    the President and one Technical Annex (in accordance to BP/OP 8.50 procedures) for the five
    participating countries.

    Recognizing the limits of implementation capacity at the individual country level as well as the
    economies of scale from enhanced regional coordination, the Bank focused lending efforts on
    selective interventions with strong regional synergies - while remaining cognizant of the need
    to address individual country's needs.      By ensuring a common framework for project
    preparation across the OECS countries and delivery of training and technical assistance
    through sub-region-wide arrangements, the ERP helped promote greater sub-regional
    cooperation while making full use of country implementation capacity in project coordination
    units.

    Project objectives were clearly stated. Supporting a sub-regional recovery program in OECS
    countries, the project aimed to reestablish and secure the productivity of the tourism sector ­
    in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The objectives were responsive
    to the Borrower's concerns, based on limited understanding of the ramifications of such a
    terrorist event. The project was designed to support the overall June 4, 2001 Country
    Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives to reduce poverty through human and institutional
    development. Creating the conditions for rapid recovery, while also supporting opportunities
    for medium-term growth in the tourism sector ­ the project intended to reduce poverty by
    providing direct    assistance to mitigate income vulnerability and insecurity. Institutional
    development focused on developing capacity for greater security in the island's critical air and
    sea-transport linkages. There was no formal revision of the project objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:

    The project objectives were not revised.




                                                - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

    The project consisted of the three components listed below:

    Critical Imports (US$2,400,000 or 34 percent of total project costs) to finance solely
   low-sulfur diesel fuel for electricity generation, which is critical to the maintenance of
   economic activity in the tourism industry because it ensures that energy-intensive tourism
   facilities are kept operational during the recovery period.

   Airport and Seaport Security Enhancement (US$4,314,500 or 62 percent of total project
    costs) to finance: (a) civil works to upgrade perimeter fencing and roadway, and improve
    access to key facilities; (b) security equipment, including communication, passenger and
    luggage screening, identification (badge) and surveillance systems; and (c) institutional
    capacity-building, including technical assistance and training to develop and implement
    security programs, emergency and contingency plans at airports and seaports.

    Implementation Support       (US$270,000 or 4 percent of total project costs) to assist the
    Borrower in meeting its project management obligations through the strengthening of an
    existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

    The original components were structured to meet the project objectives.             The largest
    allocation of funds was made for enhancing security at airports and seaports which was a key
    focus of the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

    The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.

    The St. Lucia Emergency Recovery Project was prepared as one project, as part of a regional
    security-enhancement program incorporating five nations in the OECS. Each project shared
    the same objectives and structure. A QAG panel reviewed the quality at entry of the Dominica
    ERP (and in effect the five country program) on June 6, 2002 and found it to be satisfactory.

    It was difficult to predict the unique affects of the 9/11 terrorist attack on the OECS region.
    In response to this potential variability, project objectives were broadly defined and
    components flexibly structured to adapt and evolve in response to country needs and changing
    security requirements.

    As very limited expertise on transportation security existed within the Bank, the project design
    relied heavily on a detailed assessment carried out by a renowned consulting firm specialized



                                                - 3 -

    in air and maritime transport security issues. Key to project success was the establishment of
    a cohesive capacity building program at the sub-regional level. The OECS Directorate of
    Civil Aviation (DCA) was therefore involved early on in the project - recognizing that no
    similar institutional set up existed for the maritime transport sector.

    During project preparation, the option of hiring a procurement agent to handle procurement
    of security equipment on behalf of all islands was considered to facilitate standardization of
    specifications, packaging and procurement of equipment. In the end, the project relied on
    strengthening an existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to manage procurement, in line
    with the Borrower's desire to build on existing institutional capacity.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


    Overall, the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.

    The first objective, safeguarding and maintaining the productive capacity of the country's
    tourism sector, was fully met through the disbursement of critical imports (fuel oil for energy
   needs) immediately after the loan and credit became effective. This helped St. Lucia meet its
   energy needs in the aftermath of the September 11th events, in spite of the loss of tourism
   revenues losses.

   The second objective, enhancing security at key airport and seaport facilities in line with
   international standards, has been fully achieved with the bulk of civil works completed and
   equipment installed and in use. The G.L.F. Charles airport certification process has been
   carried out by the DCA on behalf of International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), and
   the International Ship and Port Security (ISPS) certification process for the main port of
   Castries have been completed. All facilities currently meet all international security standards.

   The final objective, strengthening the country's institutional capacity was fully met with all
    training activities successfully completed, regulatory studies prepared for Government's
    approval and enactment of related legislation. In addition, an airport safety management study,
    which was not initially included under the project, has been prepared.

4.2 Outputs by components:

    Critical Imports (Appraisal US$ 2.40 million/Actual US$ 2.41 million)

    The critical imports component is rated highly satisfactory.

    The financing and disbursement of critical imports (fuel oil for energy needs) was made
    immediately after the loan and credit became effective. This helped St. Lucia meet its energy
    needs in the aftermath of the September 11th events and dampened the impact of subsequent
    tourism revenue losses.




                                                  - 4 -

Security Enhancement at Ports and Airports (Appraisal US$ 4.01 million/Actual US$ 3.90
million)

The security enhancement component is rated satisfactory.

Physical Improvements:

Repairs of the perimeter fencing at G.L.F. Charles airport have been completed. Additional
fence reparation and improvement (patching of holes and adding barbed wire) at the southern
side of the airport has been completed. A new wooden covered walkway and barricade has
been erected along the runway. With its two separate walkways to keep arriving and departing
passengers from mingling, it provides good control and improves security by prohibiting
unauthorized passenger-movement into the aircraft boarding area. A new checked-luggage
area has also been constructed.

At Hewanorra airport, the construction of the perimeter road has been cancelled since all
areas of the fence can be inspected by vehicle from either the inside or the outside of the
perimeter.

Security Equipment:

All security equipment originally included in the project has been procured, installed and is in
use at both port and airport facilities. Some additional equipment has also been purchased
toward the end of the project with project savings. A list of security enhancement equipment
purchased under the project can be found under the Output Indicators of Annex 1.

The installation of Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) systems at the port and airport were
delayed during project implementation for various reasons. Some delays related to pending
plans for new terminal construction, financed by a Kuwaiti Government Grant that has not yet
materialized. Other delays were caused by difficulties in finalizing building specifications,
because of insufficiently detailed designs. Furthermore, the procurement of CCTV equipment
was held-up by high procurement costs, with quotes greatly exceeding original planned
estimates. To allow the completion of this activity, the project was extended six months, to
December 31, 2005. In retrospect, the option of using a single design, supply and installation
contract for the CCTV could have resulted in more rapid implementation.

Institutional Capacity Building (Appraisal US$ 0.31 million/Actual US$ 0.15 million)

To ensure a coherent approach and consistency of programs, this component was
implemented by the DCA on behalf of all participating countries. All modules for executive
and operational training have been successfully completed with three St. Lucia Air and
Seaports Authority (SLASPA) executives benefiting from this program. Train-the-trainer
courses were held in December 2003 in Antigua, with two candidates from St. Lucia having
completed the course, and a third having passed with distinction. An Aviation Security
Training was held in mid-March 2004 in St. Lucia. Of the 30 participants, 33 percent passed



                                            - 5 -

   with distinction, 47 percent passed to completion and 20 percent did not complete the course.
   At the same time, 30 participants also attended a Maritime Security Program, of whom 60
   percent passed with distinction, 10 percent passed to completion and 30 percent did not
   complete the training.

   A comprehensive Regulatory Review for Enhanced Security covering both the civil aviation
   and maritime sectors in St. Lucia has been completed. This has helped the authorities take a
   full account of ICAO and International Maritime Organization (IMO) requirements and
   identify potential deficiencies and areas for improvement. A draft National Transportation
   Security Plan has also been developed for St. Lucia, as well as a Port Security Plan. Both
   plans have been reviewed by the respective competent authorities and are awaiting legislative
   approval.

   Following the Bank's mid-term in-depth technical mid-term review, the Government agreed to
   use part of the project savings to finance an airport management study. The authorities are
   currently reviewing the conclusions and recommendations of this additional study.

   Project Management (Appraisal US$ 0.27 million/Actual US$ 0.40 million)

    The project management component is rated satisfactory.

    The PCU was well staffed. As it also handled two other Bank financed projects, additional
    staff was recruited to manage the workload. Some office equipment and furniture was also
    provided to facilitate the operations of the PCU. Towards the end of the project, the PCU was
    transferred from the Ministry of Planning to the Ministry of Finance.

    An independent auditor was engaged for the duration of the project. Financial reporting was
    of good quality and all audit reports were submitted on time.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

    It was not possible to calculate the economic rate of return for this type of project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

    It was not possible to calculate the financial rate of return for this type of project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

    Tourist arrivals, particularly cruises, have picked up since 2002. St. Lucia registered an
    increase in total visitor arrivals of 4.4 percent in 2003 and 15.5 percent in 2004, respectively.
    Greater stability (no major terrorist attack in the USA since the September 11th events) and
    the diversion of tourism to destinations closer to the USA (i.e. the Caribbean) because of the
    Iraq war may well explain this trend. In any event, improved confidence in the security at the
    country's key airport and seaport facilities brought in by the project is an important
    contributing factor to this positive development.



                                                  - 6 -

    At project completion, the G.F.L. Charles and Hewanorra airports can be rated as facilities
    with markedly improved security and good controls. The airport security force is trained by
    three ICAO certified trainers.        The US Transportation Security Agency (TSA) recently
    reviewed past security assessments and concluded that positive changes and improvements
    have occurred at airports. British Airways conducted an audit in October 2003 and reported
    that airport security was significantly better than before. The FAA has also indicated that post
    9/11 steps have been positive.        Four out of five air carriers recently surveyed by the DCA
    have stated that security has improved at airports, with two of the surveys having marked
    security as greatly improved.

    With regard to seaports, the improvement in security is satisfactory. SLASPA is developing
    extensive efforts to comply with the ISPS Code. Further equipment and works would be
    needed to reduce potential vulnerability at key access points.            The Port Authority has
    developed a Port Security Plan and received ISPS certification from the National Police. The
    authorities remain fully committed to meeting regulatory requirements and are seeking further
    assistance to this end.

    At the broader sub-regional level, several positive developments are also worth noting in the
    context of project implementation. The DCA has recently become responsible for oversight
    of the OECS countries as the Civil Aviation Authority. A new Civil Aviation Act has been
    sent out to circulated among all OECS countries. The concept of a harmonized aviation
    regulatory framework for all OECS countries has also been endorsed by ICAO.

    Without ICAO endorsement, which was only earned as a result of the project, OECS
    countries would currently be unable to accept international flights. Without the arrival of these
    flights, the tourism industry would have suffered a tremendous blow. Therefore, the project
    enabled OECS governments to take advantage of the increase in tourist visits over the past
    few years, an opportunity which has had a positive impact on poverty reduction and overall
    development.

    The DCA, as the responsible oversight authority, is supporting its member countries in
    drafting a relevant regulatory framework. Finally, the DCA is considering the establishment of
    a regional agency similar to the Transportation Security Agency (TSA) in the US. This future
    objective is being accommodated in the proposed regional security framework.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    Transportation sector regulations for air and maritime security changed rapidly in the months
    following the events of 9/11. International regulations underwent several revisions making it
    mandatory for countries to implement new standards as they emerged. In some cases, revised
    or new standards resulted in new demands and/or cost increases which were not originally
    forecasted under the project. This ever-changing situation made it difficult to implement some
    of the project components. Policies and legislation continue to evolve, particularly in the
    maritime sector.



                                                     - 7 -

    Regulatory reviews and counterpart funds to conduct sub-regional training (from the
    institutional capacity-building component under the responsibility of the DCA) were initially
    delayed due to slow mobilization in Antigua.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    None

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    Substantial delays in the implementation of the CCTV system component could have been
    avoided if better coordination and more rapid decision-making had taken place between the
    PCU and SLASPA.

5.4 Costs and financing:

    The project experienced a few variations in original equipment estimates. Some security
    equipment was overestimated at the time of appraisal, as it proved difficult to evaluate the
    cost of such items, given the sudden increase in demand following 9/11. Project savings,
    including those generated by the cancellation of the Hewanorra perimeter road, were used to
    finance additional communication and essential baggage-screening equipment.

    At completion, project costs totaled US$6.9 million compared to US$7.4 million at appraisal.
    Final Bank financing was US$6.1 million, as originally planned.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


    Overall project sustainability is likely.

    Currently, SLASPA has made sufficient provision for continued budgetary and institutional
    support to maintain the relevant infrastructure and security equipment. Since it has a direct
    incentive and involvement in the maintenance of its investments, sustainability of infrastructure
    and equipment is likely. In addition, as the training provided has been quite successful and the
    proposed regulatory framework has been well prepared to the satisfaction of the authorities,
    the sustainability of the institutional capacity component is likely. Notwithstanding these
    achievements, maintaining qualified security staff, who are able to operate and update the
    various project security systems, is questionable--unless continuous follow-on training
    programs are implemented. Likewise, the implementation of recommendations contained in
    the regulatory assessment reports will require not only strong political commitment from the
    Government, but also further technical assistance.




                                                     - 8 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    All physical resources have been delivered to and /or installed at the respective facility. All
    security equipment contracts include a two-year warranty and the provision of adequate spare
    parts. Where appropriate, personnel have been trained in the use and maintenance of the
    equipment.     Management and operational security personnel have also been trained in the
    discharge of their security duties, in line with emerging international standards and best
    practices relevant to their respective operations.

    In general, equipment has been put to use immediately upon delivery and commissioning.
    Security personnel have been able to use the newly acquired knowledge and skills for the
    benefit of their respective entities and the country as a whole.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


    Given the urgency of and unfamiliarity with the issues at hand (including potential
    staffing constraints), Bank performance for lending is considered satisfactory.

    Immediately after September 11, 2001, the Bank was able to mobilize and coordinate
    specialized expertise to respond to a unique event which had unpredictable consequences. It
    also played a key role in coordinating the design of the recovery program in the OECS
    countries and mobilizing donor financing. The project was prepared and presented to the
    Board in less than four months.           It was designed with a flexible structure and similar
    components to neighboring islands to ensure a coherent approach at the sub-regional level.

7.2 Supervision:

    Frequency and quality of supervision is rated satisfactory.

    Supervision was flexible and responsive to a changing environment and new institutional
    requirements. There were nine supervision missions during the three year and a half year
    implementation period.         Most supervision missions included strong procurement and
    emergency management skills. In addition, the Bank commissioned both a mid-term and a
    final review, which were conducted by consultants with technical expertise from the civil
    aviation and maritime sectors. These independent reviews proved extremely useful and helped
    implementing agencies address critical issues and adjust their program accordingly.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

    Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

    The Bank's response to an event which had unforeseeable impacts was timely, rapid and
    flexible throughout the project cycle. The Bank was also very responsive to take into account



                                                   - 9 -

    emerging needs in an evolving regulatory environment and to accommodate new emergency
    needs into the project when they occurred.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

    Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.

    Government recognized quickly the consequences of the September 11th events on
    sub-regional tourism and sought Bank assistance to mitigate potential negative impacts.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

    Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory.

    At the outset, Government worked diligently to declare the loan and credit effective, and
    provide for sufficient counterpart funding. Government support for the project remained
    strong throughout implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

    Overall implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory.

    Throughout the project, the PCU performed its support and coordination role well. SLASPA
    provided adequate institutional support and resources during implementation. Faced with a
    rapidly evolving regulatory environment and difficulties in finalizing technical specifications of
    equipment, SLASPA made extensive efforts and displayed professionalism to provide
    adequate technical inputs and management supervision skills during project execution. A more
    rapid decision on the CCTV systems would have avoided delays and the subsequent need for
    a six month extension of the closing date.

    Implementation of the institutional capacity building component was the responsibility of the
    OECS Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) on behalf of the five countries. Despite its limited
    human and financial resources, and overwhelming maritime security issues beyond the scope
    of its responsibilities--the DCA was always pro-active, satisfactorily supporting and
    coordinating the implementation of this component.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

    Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


    The Bank is well positioned to respond to similar emergencies in the future. The Bank's
    judgment to engage in this emergency operation was well-founded. The country team
    immediately recognized the paradigm shift following the 9/11 events. It identified resulting
    emerging needs and engaged client countries in immediate action. Because of its capacity to


                                               - 10 -

    identify, mobilize and implement key activities in record time, the Bank emerged as a key
    partner in an area where it had no specific engagement prior to the terrorist attack.

    The Bank can play an active role to assist countries in meeting established and evolving
    regulatory standards. Though it did not have all the required know-how "in house," the Bank
    effectively and successfully procured outside expertise to ensure that participating countries
    could meet evolving standards. In-depth technical reviews conducted by independent experts
    also proved particularly useful to ensure successful and flexible project implementation.

    There can be significant advantages to implementing multi-country programs through a
    regional entity. The project greatly benefited from the support of the Department of Civil
    Aviation--the regional agency that coordinated training and institutional strengthening
    activities. Such an agency was not only well positioned to establish and apply regional
    standards and policies, but also greatly benefited from having a regional project, as it
    contributed to the agency's legitimacy and institutional development.

    Regional procurement can bring important cost-benefits. Participating governments greatly
    benefited from the coordinated procurement of policy development and training activities.
    Additional benefit could have been derived, however, from the joint-purchase of key
    equipment. In addition to obvious economies of scale resulting from simplified processes,
    larger orders and reduced shipping costs--maintenance services could have been procured at
    a reduced price to preserve highly technical project equipment. Expensive spare parts could
    have been purchased in bulk and a single-firm could have been contracted to carry-out
    required maintenance work in all participating countries.

    Emergency projects benefit from close supervision. The Emergency Recovery Project in St.
    Lucia was successful in great part thanks to the close and regular supervision of the Bank
    team. This was made possible by grouping supervision of five similar projects in the region,
    creating significant economies of scale. With pooled supervision funds, the team was able to
    visit all participating islands on a single mission while paying transportation costs only once.
    Had this not been the case, the Bank team would not have had the funds required to be closely
    involved in project implementation ­ to the detriment of the project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Government of Saint Lucia secured a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) in the amount of US$1.89 million and a credit from the International
Development Association (IDA) in the amount of US$4.21 million equivalent, towards the cost of
the Emergency Recovery Project. This Project became effective in July 2002 and should have
been completed in June 2005, in three years, the time granted for emergency projects. However,
an extension was granted for an additional six months to ensure the successful completion of
project activities.



                                                - 11 -

Although some preparatory work was undertaken during the design phase of the Project to ensure
speedy implementation of project activities and coordination, procurement and financial
management responsibilities had been assigned to a Project Coordination Unit staffed with
personnel with significant experience with World Bank projects, a few project activities were
delayed. Some activities proved to require more time for completion than was anticipated.
Further, the cost estimates for some of the activities were well understated.

The regional approach adopted for implementation of the Emergency Recovery Projects in the
five OECS countries enabled the building of capacity within the countries, allowed for cost
savings, and promoted the sharing of information as similar activities were being implemented in
the countries. Further, the most significant achievement under the Project was the implementation
of the Institutional Capacity Component. It was implemented regionally (Antigua, Dominica,
Grenada, St. Kitts, Saint Lucia and St. Vincent), with six countries participating under a Regional
Agreement. This component was completed in a timely fashion and allowed for the participation
of Project Coordination Units and the Technical Officers from the Air and Sea Ports Authorities.
At the start of the Project, the sentiments expressed were that the security equipment should be
procured regionally for economy of scale and for better management by the Directorate for Civil
Aviation. However, not all of the countries were at the same level of preparedness and regional
procurement did not occur. Nonetheless, this could have been achieved through a Regional
Agreement which would have allowed for participation by the countries.

The project was developed as a result of the events of September 11, 2001. The events caused
the world to focus its efforts to improve security, especially at border control points. Despite the
fact that this Project was an Emergency Recovery Project, the time lapse between that event and
project implementation created a lax environment. The need to quickly heighten security through
increased manpower and the purchase of additional equipment was therefore lessened.
Consequently, a few project activities were not completed by the end of the closing date of the
Project. The cost of completing these activities will have to be borne by the Government of Saint
Lucia, despite the scarce resources available. Moreover, the Saint Lucia Air and Sea Ports
Authority did not act quickly enough to take advantage of available savings under the Project and
the time taken to make decisions to maximize the use of funds caused delays in completion of
critical activities.

Notwithstanding these challenges, there significant goals were achieved upon completion of the
project, and the original objectives of the project were met. The acquisition of security equipment
of varying degrees of complexity was completed. All of the equipment and the supplies were
acquired and delivered. One key activity, the installation of the Closed Circuit Television (CCTV)
System, was not completed by the original closing date of the project, due to inadequate
information about the existing infrastructure and the infrastructural requirements. The installation
of the CCTV System was an activity that would have been better implemented under a normal
physical infrastructural type of Project, Capital Investment, which would have certainly allowed
for more precise designs and complete installation.

In light of the investment made by the GOSL, a major concern is that there be adequate
maintenance and security for the newly acquired infrastructure, equipment, and resources that


                                                - 12 -

have been provided. The GOSL must ensure that resources, both human and financial, are
available to sustain the facilities well into the future.

Finally the GOSL must express gratitude to the World Bank Team involved with supervision
(Guinard, Liauataud, Ghesquiere, Agwu, Daoud, Forni) for the dedicated support and assistance
given to the PCU throughout the implementation of this comprehensive security project. Overall
the World Bank's performance in this regard was highly satisfactory.


2. BACKGROUND

    Borrower/Implementing Agency: Ministry of Physical Development, Environment & Housing (formerly
    Ministry of Planning, Development, Environment & Housing)

    Other Partners:     Saint Lucia Air and Sea Ports Authority
                          Ministry of Tourism


    Project Coordination Staff                    Current                    At Appraisal
    Project Coordinator:                           Cointha Thomas -2005      George James
    Deputy Project Coordinator:                    Cheryl Mathurin
    Project Assistant ­Contracts:                  Mattle Drysdale
    Project Assistant ­ Financial Management:      Rosilia Joseph
    Secretary / Typist:                           Tessa Smith
    Accounts Clerks:                              Natasha Charles
                                                  Calus Monchery
    Clerk:                                        Yasmine Anatole            Lavelle Du Boulay


3. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS


(HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; HL = Highly Likely; L = Likely; UN = Unlikely;
HUN = Highly Unlikely; HU = Highly Unsatisfactory; H = High; SU = Substantial; M = Modest; N = Negligible)


    Outcome:      S

    Sustainability: L

    Institutional Development Impact: SU

    Bank Performance: HS

    Borrower Performance: S

    Project at Risk at Any Time: No

    Quality at Entry: S


4. QUALITY AT ENTRY

The events of September 11, 2001 certainly jolted the world's consciousness in the direction of
security, especially at border control points. This reality confronted the Saint Lucia Air and Sea
Ports Authority (SLASPA) very pointedly, since one of its primary functions is that of gatekeeper
for all the nation's borders. SLASPA's response was expedient, and the visible positive results



                                                      - 13 -

were achieved quickly. Increased manpower, refining procedures and processes, and purchasing
additional baggage x-ray machines all swiftly sprang into operation. Given the scarce available
financial resources and the fierce competition for these resources the SLASPA was always going
to be limited in what could reasonably be achieved.

Consequently, SLASPA was keen to participate in the GOSL's plans of implementing a Project
that would enhance security at the country's ports of entry. The cost arising from this unforeseen
event and the demands placed on smaller territories, like the OECS, by ICAO and the
International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code (ISPS Code) could not be met from the
private sector or from Central Government funds.            Therefore, the GOSL welcomed the
opportunity to work with P.A. Consulting of the United States in preparing this intricate project
which included civil works, procurement of security equipment and institutional capacity building,
a critical component.

During project preparation and appraisal the Government of Saint Lucia, through its Ministry of
Tourism and SLASPA, made a complete assessment of the country's needs with the assistance of
P.A. Consulting. Preliminary cost estimates were also provided for all of the activities to be
undertaken. Having completed this preparatory work, the framework for determining the key
project components was clearly and precisely established and agreed with the World Bank.
Sufficient details of project activities were provided, however, some of the cost estimates did not
reflect adequately the cost for providing consultant services, acquisition of goods and the ancillary
civil works required.

Prior to effectiveness, the institutional arrangements for project implementation were clearly
defined and SLASPA, the main implementing Agency. The Agency appointed a Project Team
comprised of technical officers, from the highest level of the organisation, to ensure commitment
to the efficient implementation of the Project. Despite these efforts, the major Terms of Reference
and the bidding documents for the bulk of the services and works to be procured had not been
prepared during preparation. This may have been a downside for project preparation.

5. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

Outcome/Achievement of Objectives

Upon project completion, the objectives of the project were achieved. All of the equipment and
supplies were acquired and delivered. Although the goods procured for the CCTV System were
delivered by the closing date of the Project, full installation was not completed. Moreover, an
additional activity was included in the Institutional Capacity Component. This activity facilitated
the preparation of aerodrome and airline security guidelines to ensure similar security
requirements for aviation are consistent to those mandated for marine operations by the ISPS
Code. Safety guidelines were met at all ports, whether air or sea, and security plans have been
developed. Moreover, security personnel have been appropriately trained and are better prepared
to deal with emergencies.




                                                - 14 -

The security enhancement component was expanded to enable the procurement of additional
equipment based on recommendations made by a Mission led by Mr. Charles Schulemberger of
the World Bank.       Additional equipment was also purchased to facilitate the developmental
changes that SLASPA had undertaken during project implementation.                 For example, the
construction of the Ferry Terminal at Port Castries required that additional passenger and baggage
screening equipment be procured. To this end, additional baggage screening equipment, conveyor
belts, additional fencing, an additional vehicle for Port Castries, radios and screening equipment
for air cargo was procured, through re-prioritisation of project activities by SLASPA.

It was agreed that the inner perimeter road at the Hewanorra International Airport should be
cancelled, as the cost estimates submitted by the Consulting Firm preparing the designs far
exceeded estimates in the Technical Annex of project documentation. Consequently, these funds
were re-allocated to meet the cost of additional security equipment needs.              Fencing for
Hewanorra International Airport had become a priority rather than construction of the roadway.
Therefore, towards the closing of the Project, SLASPA requested that the fencing be procured,
which would later be installed by SLASPA. The flexibility on the part of the Supervision Team in
facilitating these changes to the project design and activities further enabled the GOSL to meet
the Project's objectives.

Overall the GOSL, through its partner agencies, provided support and commitment to the efficient
implementation of the project.       This support ensured that the appropriate structures were
instituted so that the resources provided under the project were efficiently and effectively utilized.
The Institutional Capacity Component and other training undertaken will guarantee the
maintenance of the Project components and further enhance the capacity of SLASPA.

Institutional Development Impact

Overall, the Project concept was thoughtfully designed and allowed a coherent approach in the
implementation of project activities. The institutional capacity of GOSL was developed and
strengthened as there was a vast amount of knowledge and skills transfer during implementation.
In addition, SLASPA ensured that training materials were provided to build capacity and
institutional memory for the future.

The training of trainers has provided a substantial resource reservoir for SLASPA to tap from.
Persons trained under the Train-the Trainers Workshop have provided in-house training to the
Ports Police employed by SLASPA. Training was also given to security officers from private
firms who provide services in screening passengers at the air and sea port facilities. The objective,
which has been achieved, was to develop a cadre of trained security officials in the disciplines of
aviation and maritime security throughout the country. Thus, SLASPA has access to a wide base
of security trained personnel possible base to select from when the need arises.

The assistance in relation to the implementation of the International Ship and Port Facilities
Security Code (ISPS Code) was also timely and contributed to Saint Lucia meeting the
implementation deadline of July 2004.




                                                - 15 -

The inclusion of a consultancy for the preparation aerodrome and airline security guidelines under
Institutional Capacity Building has facilitated the process for ensuring that all ports, whether air
or sea, have security plans. As a result, personnel are appropriately trained to better deal with any
security emergencies. SLASPA is currently undertaking a legislative reform initiative and the
regulatory review undertaken under the Project will be would certainly assist that process.

6. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control

During the lapse between the occurrence of the 9/11, and the time the Project was ready for
implementation, several project activities earmarked for funding had changed drastically. For
example the actual costs for implementation of certain activities (Passenger Tracking and Watch
List and the CCTV System) had escalated.

Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control

The Ministry of Tourism and SLASPA were the agencies involved with the implementation of the
Project. The critical import component was provided to the Ministry of Tourism as financial
support, disbursed on the receipt of diesel fuel, to assist the industry in meeting its energy needs.

The Security Enhancement Component implemented by SLASPA was fairly large and diverse. It
involved the execution of works at ports of entry that had to remain open to business throughout
the implementation processes. This caused some discomfort to patrons, stakeholders, and staff at
the various ports. It required certain procedural adjustments but all affected parties were
understanding and tolerant. Flexibility and understanding during implementation ensured the
successful implementation of all activities.

Since this was a sub-regional project, and in most cases the equipment being purchased is similar
throughout, SLASPA would have preferred to see greater effort at harmonising those purchases.
Stronger coordination would have resulted in better prices, common training and maintenance
practices, common parts inventories, and better opportunities for assisting and supporting each
other during periods of machinery breakdown.

There was much collaboration, consultation and cooperation between the PCU and the SLASPA,
which enabled the Project to be completed successfully. There were several challenges; however,
through dedication and commitment by SLASPA and the PCU, the overall Project objectives
were achieved.

The inherent delay in the completion of the installation of the CCTV System would have been
avoided if adequate designs including the infrastructural requirements had been provided by the
Consulting Firm during the study and design phase. The Consulting Firm did not have capacity to
produce architectural drawings necessary for efficient installation. In addition, the process for
decision-making was too long and cumbersome. Appropriate technical engineering staff, apart
from information technology staff, should have been assigned during the study and design phase



                                                 - 16 -

to ensure a comprehensive approach was taken.            The output of the design was only for
positioning of cameras and control equipment. These drawings lacked the requisite precision and
detail for installation. This created unnecessary pressure for the Project Coordination Unit, which
in this end not only had to coordinate, but also assisted in the implementation of this activity.

7. SUSTAINABILITY

Rationale for Sustainability Rating:

The newly acquired equipment, infrastructure, and resources provided under the project will
require maintenance and security to ensure the objectives and benefits of the project are achieved.
Plans are being considered for maintenance contracts, where necessary, with the Suppliers after
the expiration of the warranty. SLASPA is responsible for ensuring that all of its facilities (ports
and sea ports) and equipment are insured. The challenge for Government will be the provision of
resources, both human and financial, to maintain and sustain the facilities well into the future.

SLASPA is committed to ensuring that all of its security personnel and other staff who would be
required to either operate or maintain equipment are trained. As part of the procurement
processes, spare part inventories were acquired and SLASPA intends to maintain stock levels.

Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations:

SLASPA and the Ministry of Tourism are responsible for the management and maintenance of
resources provided under the project. In most cases such resources (physical) have already been
delivered, where they have been put into regular operations.

8. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Bank

Lending

Since the Project was as a result of an emergency, the process of providing and approving the
required funding was expedited by the Bank to encourage early and urgent implementation. The
bank's performance may be noted as satisfactory.

Supervision

As with other Projects, Bank staff members (Guinard, Ghesquiere) were always willing and
available to provide the necessary assistance and guidance to the PCU on project related matters.
The Bank performed highly satisfactorily in that regard.

Overall Bank Performance

Overall, the Bank was ever willing to accommodate the GOSL on project related matters, and
worked conscientiously with the GOSL to ensure that available savings were optimized without


                                                - 17 -

comprising World Bank guidelines and procedures. The Bank is rated highly satisfactorily in that
regard.

Borrower

Preparation

The Project was well prepared. The delays experienced with completion of the CCTV System
and other minor works may have resulted from the non-inclusion of SLASPA's strategic plans
during project preparation, or poor performance on the parts of Consultants Suppliers. The need
of the GOSL to ensure cheap lending along with its other regional counterparts proved to be
satisfactory.

Government Implementation Performance

During Project Appraisal the GOSL identified SLASPA as the beneficiary of the Project although
a few agencies of Government would have directly benefited or be affected by the Project. To
ensure commitment, the Ministry of Physical Development Environment and Housing was made
responsible for the effective implementation. Therefore, the GOSL's performance may be rated
satisfactory.

Implementing Agency

The implementation agencies were enthusiastic and eager to have their respective components
executed successfully despite the set backs experienced with implementation of the CCTV
System.     The level of cooperation, consultation and collaboration enabled satisfactory
performance in this regard.

Overall Borrower Performance

Given all the shortcomings, and tremendous success derived at the end of Project, implementation
overall performance may be rated as satisfactory.


·Achievements

·Much improved security consciousness

·Institutionalized procedures for dealing with security emergencies

·Accredited in house training capability in security

·Better patrol capabilities by land and sea

·Much better surveillance capabilities with substantial CCTV coverage at all main ports




                                                - 18 -

·Security areas at the airports are now well fenced

·New patrol vessel to facilitate sea patrols. This has given SLASPA the capability to successfully
respond to the requirement of cruise lines in particular that seaside patrols be undertaken.

·Incursions through the fences particularly at airports can be quickly identified by the introduction
of systematic patrols of the fenced areas facilitated through the patrol vehicles purchased under
this project.

·Total screening of all passengers and all baggage, whether by air or sea, leaving from Saint
Lucia's main ports.

·Total screening of all air cargo leaving from the two airports

·Better response time and monitoring capabilities as a result of the additional communication
radios provided under this project

·The ability to store data relating to passenger movements through the Passenger Tracking and
Watch List System provided under this project. This component was also very timely because it
was linked another project by the Government of Saint Lucia to introduce machine readable
passport mechanisms. The two projects fully complement each other.

9. LESSONS LEARNED

· Where funding for emergency related projects are required, the World Bank has proven to be
one of the best sources in light of the quick disbursement mechanism

· In responding quickly to the immediate concerns of an emergency project, governments should
not neglect the opportunity to build on developmental plans of its agencies and stakeholders.

· Consequent to the 9/11 event, security enhancement works, particularly those involving large
capital investments and operation and maintenance requirements, should be carefully appraised.
For example, the Passenger Tracking and Watch List System and the Closed Circuit Television
System. They should be subject to similar technical, economic, financial and institutional analysis
as would be for other similar investments.

· Government should demonstrate commitment to projects to ensure that project objectives are
achieved, especially when partnering and implementation includes statutory organizations.

· Project Managers need to be fully committed by ensuring timely and sound decisions are made
throughout project implementation.

· Involvement of the stakeholders such as Immigration, Police and Customs in the decisions of
project identification, preparation, and management assist significantly in ensuring the successful
implementation of such project.



                                                 - 19 -

· Security has gained significant and necessary prominence since 9/11. It is right up there with
financial prudence and profitability of any company today. SLASPA is no exception and has
placed security as a pivotal matter in all its strategic undertakings and expectations. The doctrines
of security are being preached to all staff to heighten consciousness and engender compliance.

The Way Forward

Clearly issues related to security will continue to emerge. This project has successfully set the
GOSL on a path of enhancement and improvement but the benefits achieved under this project are
by no means exhaustive. The fact that the inner perimeter road for the Hewanorra International
Airport was not completed does not mean it is not necessary. Whe World Bank may wish to
consider a second phase to this project that will bring the GOSL closer to achieving security
excellence.

Apart from the road hitherto, there is the question of the security of cargo being transported by
sea and particularly those moved in containers. This is a very vulnerable area that needs to be
addressed. The cost of x-ray equipment for containers is high, but the opportunities for miscreants
to use that medium for acts of terrorism are also high. Saint Lucia can no longer hide behind the
fact that it is a small developing state with small ports and relatively small volumes of cargo. The
modern militant or evil minded person makes no such distinction. Ensuring security at ports of
entry is not only important for protecting our larger neighbours, by imposing stringent security
measures for outbound traffic in goods and passengers, but also our own homeland.

Then there is the matter of disposal of explosive devices. This project equipped us up to the point
of discovering the device but what next? It appears that there is almost a quiet inference that the
bomb threats will occur, but one will never be found. The world has changed and as the
developed countries make their borders impervious it is not inconceivable that the "bad guys" will
now turn on the friends of those developed countries whose borders are more easily penetrable.
Do we wait for that to happen before we act? We think not. It is our suggestion therefore that
such an issue also be considered in a potential follow-on project.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                  - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Not Available




Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
              Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Low Sulfur Diesel Fuel                       Purchased US$2.4 million of fuel             100% completed
Airport* Fencing and Apron Security          Barricade has been constructed and is in use 100% completed
Barricade
Construction of Baggage Screening Facilities Baggage screening facilities have been       100% completed
at Airport*                                  constructed and are in use
Perimeter Roadway Construction at Airport    canceled                                     canceled
Passenger Tracking and Watch List System Purchased and in use                             100% completed
Checked Baggage Screening System at both Machines are in use at airports and the port     100% completed
Airports
ID Badging and Tracking System               Purchased and in use                         100% completed
Passenger and Hand Baggage Screening         Purchased and in use                         100% completed
Systems for Airports and Port
Airport Security Patrol Vehicles (2)         Purchased and in use at airport and port     100% completed
Port Patrol Vessel                           Purchased and stationed at main port         100% completed
Sniffers                                     4 sniffers in use at airports                100% completed
Communications Equipment at the Airports     Purchased and in use                         100% completed
and Port
CCTV systems at Airports and Port            Installed at airports and main seaport       100% completed
Binoculars for Surveillance                  Night vision equipment and binoculars in use 100% completed
                                             at Hewanorra airport and View Fort Seaport,
                                             respectively
Executive Training                           3 executives benefited from training         100% completed
Security Operations Training                 30 participants                              80% passed
Specialized Training                         30 participants                              70% passed
TA: Regulatory Review for Enhanced           Review executed                              100% completed
Security
Short Term Procurement Services              Work executed                                100% completed

1End of project
*George F. L. Charles Airport
**Hewanorra Airport




                                                                 - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Critical Import
   a. Low sulfur diesel fuel                                 2.40            2.41             100
2. Security Enhancement at ports and airports
   a. Physical Improvement of Infrastructure                 1.22            0.51              42
   b. Security Equipment                                     2.79            3.39             122
3. Institutional Capacity Building
   a. Training                                               0.20            0.06              30
   b. Technical Assistance                                   0.11            0.09              82
4. Project Management                                        0.27            0.40             148

Total Baseline Cost                                          6.99            6.86
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.41            0.00               0
 Price Contingencies                                         0.00            0.00               0
                          Total Project Costs                7.40            6.86
                   Total Financing Required                  7.40            6.86


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            1.35         0.00         0.00          1.35
                                   (0.00)          (0.87)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.87)
2. Goods                            2.52            0.00         2.69         0.00          5.21
                                   (2.12)          (0.00)      (2.66)         (0.00)       (4.78)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.78         0.00          0.78
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.59)         (0.00)       (0.59)
4. Operating Expenditures           0.00            0.00         0.06         0.00          0.06
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.06)         (0.00)       (0.06)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            2.52            1.35         3.53         0.00          7.40
                                   (2.12)          (0.87)      (3.31)         (0.00)       (6.30)




                                                - 22 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               0.43              0.00             0.00              0.43
                                           (0.00)             (0.28)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.28)
    2. Goods                                3.32               0.00              2.40             0.00              5.72
                                           (2.84)             (0.00)            (2.40)            (0.00)           (5.24)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.64             0.00              0.64
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.51)            (0.00)           (0.51)
    4. Operating Expenditures               0.00               0.00              0.07             0.00              0.07
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.04)            (0.00)           (0.04)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               3.32               0.43              3.11             0.00              6.86
                                           (2.84)             (0.28)            (2.95)            (0.00)           (6.07)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Critical Import
  a. Low sulfur diesel fuel     2.40         0.00                     2.41         0.00                  100.4     0.0
2. Security Enhancement at
ports and airports
  a. Physical Improvement       0.80         0.42                     0.33         0.02                  41.3      4.8
of Infrastructure
  b. Security Equipment         2.37         0.42                     2.87         0.51                  121.1    121.4
3. Institutional Capacity
Building
  a. Training                   0.16         0.04                     0.05         0.01                  31.3      25.0
  b. Capacity Building          0.09         0.02                     0.07         0.02                  77.8     100.0
3. Project Management           0.21         0.06                     0.35         0.05                  166.7     83.3




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

It was not possible to calculate economic rates of return for this type of project




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/24/2001                7    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);        S               S
                                             LEAD ECONOMIST( 1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1); SECURITY SPECIALIST
                                             (2); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/15/2002                4    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL             S               S
                                             (1); LEAD
                                             ECONOMIST(1);
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision

              10/08/2002                4     LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);       S               S
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                                             INTERN (1); ENGINEER (1)
              02/21/2003                2    TTL, PROGRAM OFFICER (1);        S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              10/06/2003                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
              01/30/2003                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              12/03/2004                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATION SPECIALIST (1)
              04/15/2005                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
              05/09/2005                2    AIRPORT SECURITY                 S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/20/2005                2    OPERATIONS SPECIALIST            S               S
                                             (1); CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
              07/11/2005                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)

 ICR
              05/23/2005                1     OPERATIONS                      S               S
                                              SPECIALIST (1)




                                              - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               22                           61
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    15                           44
  Supervision                              30                           81
  ICR                                       3                           10
  Total                                    70                          196




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

-Memorandum and Recommendation of the President ­ Report No. P 7506-LAC
-Technical Annex - Report No. T 7506-LAC
-Consultant's final Assessment of Security Needs at Airports and Maritime Passenger Terminals
in OECS Countries in the Post September 11, 2001 Environment, February 15, 2002
-Document Credit Agreement No. 3612-SLU, April 19, 2002
-Document Loan Agreement No. 7102-SLU, April 19, 2002
-Financial and Audit Reports 2003-2005
-Mid Term Technical Review, February 25, 2004
-Final Technical Review, May 24, 2005
-Project Files




                                             - 29 -

- 30 -

