                                Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001573



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (IBRD-48020 IBRD-4802A)



                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 15 MILLION
                    (US$ 19.38 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                        MACEDONIAN RAILWAYS

                      WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE

               FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC MACEDONIA

                                     FOR A

                      RAILWAYS REFORM PROJECT



                              October 31, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2005)

                    Currency Unit = Denar
                     1.00 = US$ 0.02083
                    US$ 1.00 = Euro 0.775

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 – December 31


           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CTC    Central Traffic Control
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
EBRD   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMU    Electric Motor Unit
EU     European Union
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR    Implementation Status Report
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MKD    Macedonian Denar
MoF    Ministry of Finance
MR     Macedonian Railways
MR-I   Public Enterprise for Railway Infrastructure, Macedonian Railway
MR-T   Macedonian Railways Transport Joint Stock Company
MTC    Ministry of Transport and Communications
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PDO    Project Development Objective
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
PSO    Public Service Obligation
SLB    Skopje Labor Bureau
TA     Technical Assistance
TAC    Track Access Charge


                  Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                Country Director: Jane Armitage
                 Sector Manager: Henry G. Kerali
            Project Team Leader: George A. Banjo
               ICR Team Leader: Elena Chesheva
                     MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLC OF
                                RAILWAYS REFORM



                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 13
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 34
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 41
MAP – IBRD 33086 ......................................................................................................... 42
 
A. Basic Information
                        Macedonia, former
Country:                                        Project Name:             RAILWAYS REFORM
                        Yugoslav Republic of
                                                                          IBRD-48020,IBRD-
Project ID:             P083499                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          4802A
ICR Date:               10/31/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          MACEDONIAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          RAILWAYS
Original Total
                        USD 19.38M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 21.33M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 18.97M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 PE Macedonian Railways - Infrastructure
 Macedonian Railways - Transport JSC - Skopje
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/25/2003     Effectiveness:          06/12/2006          06/12/2006
Appraisal:            03/25/2005     Restructuring(s):                           11/30/2007
Approval:             09/15/2005     Mid-term Review:        10/12/2007          10/12/2007
                                     Closing:                10/31/2009          04/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      2                     2
Railways                                                              98                  98


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Improving labor markets                                               14                  5
Infrastructure services for private sector development                29                  29
Other public sector governance                                        14                  14
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization                29                  38
Trade facilitation and market access                                  14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Henry G. R. Kerali                   Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:       George A. Banjo                      Olivier P. Le Ber
ICR Team Leader:           Elena Y. Chesheva
ICR Primary Author:        Elena Y. Chesheva


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project development objective is to improve the financial viability, productivity, and
effectiveness of railway operations. This would be achieved through labor rationalization,
separation of infrastructure from operations, increasing accountability for performance of
the separated entities, introducing competition in rail operations, and restructuring and
rationalization of passenger services.


                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                         Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                           approval           Target        Completion or
                                          documents)          Values         Target Years
                Macedonian Railways (MR) (or successors thereof) working ratio (without
Indicator 1 :
                subsidy).
Value
quantitative or 124%                       80%                              105%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                   12/31/2009                       04/30/2011
                Although revenues increased 35% in 2004-2009, costs increased 60%, resulting
Comments
                in 108% working ratio in 2009. In 2010 ratio decreased to 105%. Calculation
(incl. %
                includes combined financial data from MR-Transport (MR-T) and MR-
achievement)
                Infrastructure (MR-I).
                MR (or successors thereof) labor productivity (thousand Traffic Units
Indicator 2 :
                (TU)/staff).
Value
quantitative or 135                        240                              232
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                   12/31/2009                       12/31/2010
Comments        The target was exceeded during three years preceding the global economic crisis,
(incl. %        with the highest value of 304 thousand TU/staff in 2007. After declining in
achievement) 2009, the productivity indicator started going up again in 2010.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 : The regulatory framework of the sector will be placed by end of 2006.
                                                                               Yes, legal
Value
                                                                               framework was
(quantitative   No                         Yes
                                                                               completed and
or Qualitative)
                                                                               adopted.
Date achieved 12/31/2004                   12/31/2006                          04/29/2011
Comments        100% achieved. Government has taken steps toward introducing EU compliant
(incl. %        legislation with the adoption of the laws on interoperability. All key legislative
achievement) acts have been adopted.
                Ministry of Finance (MoF), Ministry of Transport and Communications(MTC),
Indicator 2 : and MR-T will complete necessary studies and documents to initiate the
                privatization of MR-T



                                                iii
                                                                               The key studies (on
                                                                               Track Access
                                                                               Charge, Public
                                                                               Service Obligations
                                                                               contracts, and
                                                                               Staffing and Cost
Value                                                                          Reduction) were
(quantitative   No                          Yes                                completed.
or Qualitative)                                                                However, the
                                                                               government has
                                                                               postponed its plans
                                                                               for privatization of
                                                                               MR-T, thus the
                                                                               privatization study
                                                                               was cancelled
Date achieved     12/31/2004                06/30/2008                         04/29/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Almost fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     MR (or successors) staff reduced.
Value
(quantitative     3609                      2450                               2927 in 2010
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2004                 12/31/2009                          04/29/2011
                60% achieved. Initial retrenchment of about 700 staff was followed by a smaller
Comments
                reduction of staff through natural attrition. Lay off of more staff proved difficult
(incl. %
                given present economic downturn and political difficulties in implementing lay
achievement)
                offs.
Indicator 4 : Staff counseling.
                                                                               153 MR laid-off
                                                                               staff
                                                                               interviewed/counsel
Value                                                                          led on future
(quantitative   0                          700                                 employment
or Qualitative)                                                                opportunities based
                                                                               on thorough
                                                                               interviews
                                                                               conducted in 2008.
Date achieved 11/07/2007                   12/31/2009                          12/31/2010
Comments        Target not met due to late start of the program, Some previous surveys and
(incl. %        interviews done in 2006-2007 covered most of the staff but didn't provide
achievement) counseling and training.
Indicator 5 : Staff training
Value
(quantitative   0                          300                                 72
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2007                   12/31/2009                          12/31/2010
Comments        Target not met due to late start of the program. Note: figure of 72 includes 29
(incl. %        who chose to receive help with child tuition in lieu of training.


                                                  iv
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     MR-T operating capacity.
Value
(quantitative     2 million tons             3 million tons                     3.09 million tons
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 12/31/2007                         12/31/2010
Comments
                  Target achieved despite some drop in 2009 due to the global economic crisis and
(incl. %
                  problems in Greece.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     MR-T working ratio (without subsidy) for freight.
Value
(quantitative     67%                        60%                                72%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                  12/31/2009                         04/29/2011
Comments          There was some improvement in 2009 (reaching 57% below the target), but the
(incl. %          effects were lost due to later increase in expenditures and effects of the global
achievement)      crisis on revenues.
Indicator 8 :     MR-T working ratio (without subsidy) for passenger.
Value
(quantitative     346%                       300%                               353%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                12/31/2009                        04/29/2011
Comments          Escalating costs pushed the ratio upwards reaching unhealthy 608% in 2009.
(incl. %          Action Plan agreed with Government expecting to correct the trend via PSO
achievement)      mechanism
Indicator 9 :     Temporary speed restrictions on % of the track length.
Value
(quantitative     30%                        10%                                13.2%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 12/31/2008                         12/31/2010
Comments
                  Significant improvement over the baseline shortly missing the target reflects
(incl. %
                  impact of investment in track maintenance under the project.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    MR-I working ratio (without subsidy).
Value
(quantitative     214%                       100%                               135%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 12/31/2009                         04/29/2011
Comments
                  Almost achieved target in 2009 (108%), however worsened later due to reduced
(incl. %
                  reduction in trains operated by MR-T .
achievement)




                                                   v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                      IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    05/13/2006         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.00
                                                 Moderately
  2    01/19/2007       Satisfactory                                            0.05
                                               Unsatisfactory
  3    06/11/2007       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             0.05
  4    02/06/2008       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    1.84
  5    11/06/2008       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   11.09
  6    07/04/2009       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   12.59
  7    05/19/2010       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   16.66
  8    01/24/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            19.04
  9    05/15/2011       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   21.58


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 11/30/2007               S       S           1.04




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      The strategic location of Former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) Macedonia puts it at
the center of international routes linking Turkey, Greece and Bulgaria to the rest of
Europe. At the time of project appraisal, efficient and effective operation of the roads and
railways, which link FYR Macedonia to the region, was becoming increasingly important
to realizing the country’s growth potential.

2.      The rail network of FYR Macedonia is small, with 699km of single track rail, of
which only 235 km are electrified. The main line which is part of the Pan-European
Corridor X traverses FYR Macedonia from Tabanovce through the capital Skopje to
Gevgelija, in addition to the branch Corridor Xd from Veles through Bitola to Kremenica
(146 km). Along Corridor X the line is electrified and has a Siemens safety control
system—the railway sections along this corridor are expected to be linked to a
telecommunications system in the future. The country is also traversed by Pan-European
Corridor VIII—this corridor connects the Black Sea through Bulgaria and FYR
Macedonia to Albania and the Adriatic sea — which is 313 km long. International
transport accounted for 98 percent of freight transport in 2009, most of which is
transported through Corridor X, making the operational and financial performance of the
FYR Macedonia railway system highly dependent on traffic development along this part
of the network.

3.      Macedonian Railways (MR), which operated the railways as a vertically
integrated system prior to separation, was one of the largest loss-makers among public
sector enterprises. Total debt at the end of 2004 was €143 million - about 3.3% of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP). It was estimated that if the railways were not subject to major
reforms, the cost to the Government could increase by another €100 million to cover
operating losses (excluding required budget support for capital expenditures) in the
following ten years.

4.      In addition, existing infrastructure was degrading as scarce resources were
diverted to subsidize poorly targeted services and support overstaffed agencies at the
expense of maintenance. All indicators of performance had steadily declined over the
years and the financial position of MR had deteriorated to the extent that it did not have
sufficient funds to pay staff salaries or to make any budgetary allocation for the overhaul
of its assets. Closing the railways was not a viable alternative (in particular for
geopolitical reasons). Instead, the railways needed to be made more efficient so as to be
able to increase its revenue by increasing traffic and rationalizing tariffs and reducing its
costs by reducing staff and increasing the utilization and productivity of its assets.

5.    Recognizing the importance of the development of the transport sector, the
government started a reform process of the rail sector. Under the previous Bank financed


                                             1
Transport Sector Project (closed in FY2005), various studies and associated policy
dialogue had facilitated the start of the reform process with the railway restructuring
model and the related action plan approved by the Government in March 2003, after
discussion with the main stakeholders. The process leading to the selection of the
restructuring model was long and comprehensive but this was warranted so that the
choices made were well thought out and appropriately shared among the key
stakeholders. The main points of the accepted model were: (a) separation of infrastructure
from operations and the establishment of two rail entities: (i) a Public Enterprise under
state ownership for infrastructure; and (ii) a shareholding company for transport; (b)
gradual introduction of performance-based contracts for the maintenance and
management of the infrastructure; (c) involvement of the private sector in the operation
and management of the transport company; and, (d) steady reduction the staff to about
one fourth of its level at that time as part of restructuring (reduction to two third planned
under the proposed project) and subsequent privatization process. A Law on the
Transformation of Public Enterprise Macedonian Railways and a Law for Railways
adopted respectively by the parliament in April 2005 and July 2005 provided the new
legal framework. These laws made provision for the separation of MR into two
successors entities: MR-Infrastructure (MR-I), a public enterprise, and MR-Transport
(MR-T), a shareholding company with shares fully owned by the Government.

6.     It was envisioned that the focus of the new project would be on implementing the
provisions of the two laws, through establishing MR-T and MR-I, improving their
operational and financial performance, preparing for the privatization of MR-T, and
preparing for the introduction of open access allowing other railway operators to use the
network.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
7.     The Project development objective was to improve the financial viability,
productivity, and effectiveness of railway operations. This would be achieved through
labor rationalization, separation of infrastructure from operations, increasing
accountability for performance of the separated entities, introducing competition in rail
operations, and restructuring and rationalization of passenger services.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
8.     The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
9.      The project was designed to progressively transform the consolidated state-owned
railways into economically viable entities managing infrastructure and transport
operations, and establish regulatory competence for multiple operator market. The
reforms, combined with significant labor restructuring, streamlined operational and
financial performance, targeted investments towards building transport capacity, and
mechanized and cost-effective track maintenance, were expected to show a marked




                                             2
improvement in performance. The benefits of the restructuring to the national economy
and to the national budget were expected to be substantial.

10.     An important beneficiary group was the private sector. Part of the technical
assistance under the Project was provisioned to prepare for a future substantial private
sector involvement in the operation and management of the transport and infrastructure
entities. The project was to develop a proper regulatory framework for open access of
multiple operators to the market.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
11.     Component 1: Technical Assistance for restructuring, regulation, preparatory
steps for private sector involvement, and implementation capacity building and support
(€1.52 million): This component would provide for technical assistance, consultancy
services, and transaction advisory services as needed to complete the first phase of
restructuring and preparing for privatization of MR and establishing a regulatory
framework, and supporting implementation. The component made provision for four
consultancy studies: (i) staffing and cost reduction study, (ii) a transport company
privatization study with advisory services, (iii) a Public Services Obligations (PSO)
study, and (iv) a track access charge study. The component would also comprise the
following equipment and technical assistance (TA) to support implementation of the
project: office computers, software, office equipment and furniture, training and
seminars, financial management TA to MR, procurement TA to MR, and project
financial audits. Provided that the successors of MR were established, this component
would be implemented by the two new companies.

12.      Component 2: Social mitigation (€0.65 million): The component would provide
a variety of employment services to the retrenched staff, such as: (a) social,
psychological, and financial counseling to the willing staff; (b) one-to-one consultation
with the retrenched staff to determine the most appropriate training needs for the staff; (c)
facilitating actual staff training by providing a voucher to every inquiring retrenched staff
to be used for training of his or her choice in selected institutions to be identified; and (d)
support to the Skopje Labor Bureau (SLB) which would provide most of the above
services in the form of furniture and equipment.

13.      Component 3: Increasing operating capacity (€7.90 million) of MR-Transport:
The component would comprise: remanufacturing and retrofitting of two electric
locomotives, re-manufacturing and retrofitting of two 4-unit Electro Motor Units (EMU),
procurement of two shunting locomotives, retrofitting of 60 wagons to handle new steel
traffic, and procurement of 20 new flat bed wagons.

14.    Component 4: Mechanization of track maintenance and infrastructure
modernization (€5.25 million) for MR-Infrastructure: The component would comprise:
supply and installation of Central Traffic Control (CTC) system, track mechanized
maintenance equipment, i.e., sleeper replacement, reballasting, and tamping machines,
heavy rail vehicles., other equipment, loader trucks and track machine for catenary



                                              3
service, building inventory of rails, sleepers, and switching parts, and capacity allocation
and information system for infrastructure.

1.6 Revised Components
15.       The components were not revised during project implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes
16.     A number of changes were introduced during project implementation as
described below.
     A significant change was made in the second component, when it was decided
       that the SLB would not be involved in provision of services to the retrenched
       workers. The decision was made based on the legal constraints and very limited
       capacity of the SLB in providing training. It was agreed that the staff from Human
       Resources departments would work on the assessment of needs and help prepare
       training programs for retrenched workers.

         Another change was in light of an agreement with the Government not to pursue
          privatization of the MR-T during project implementation. As a result the
          Privatization Study was dropped.

         The list of rolling stock to be procured under the project was modified to reflect
          the priorities of the government, and instead of retrofitting wagons for carrying
          steel, it was agreed to increase the number of new flat-bed wagons. It was also
          agreed to add the procurement of a Railway Information Management System
          (RIMS) to improve track maintenance planning, and of a Video wall to enhance
          performance of the CTC system.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
17.     Overall, the project Quality at Entry is considered satisfactory. Substantive
preparatory work was done under the Transport Sector Project (approved in February
1999 and closed in September 2004), which laid the groundwork for the project and led
to the preparation and approval of the new legal framework. Over the course of several
years the policy dialogue on railway sector reform led to the recognition by the
Government, and in particular, by the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC), of the effects of the inefficient and loss-making
railway company on the economy and the resulting big draw on the national budget due
to the large subsidies, and hence the need for reform. This work led to an agreement with
stakeholders on a number of actions needed to transform the railways in FYR Macedonia
and align it with European Union (EU) regulations.

18.    The project was designed as a good balance between investments in track
maintenance equipment, rolling stock and technical assistance to the Government and the
Macedonian Railways and its successor companies in preparing the legislative and


                                              4
normative base for establishing the Infrastructure and Transport companies and
improving their management and operation. The success of moving with the reform
agenda under the project could be also partially attributed to the fact that some critical
actions to be taken by the Government were agreed before the project was approved and
declared effective, including passage of the Railway Laws in June 2005, and the decision
on staff retrenchment. Furthermore, to keep the focus on the reform, the Legal Agreement
stipulated that any expenditures for physical investments for MR-I and MR-T companies
would only be allowed after the Bank received satisfactory evidence that the Borrower
had restructured itself in accordance with the Railways Laws and in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank. While this delayed project implementation, this provision allowed for the
restructuring of the railways to be completed as agreed.

19.     It should be noted that the design of the Second Component on social mitigation
for staff retrenchment had some flaws in the initial assessment of the capacity of the SLB
originally proposed for implementation of activities under this component, and of the buy
in from the Railways for the proposed approach. This resulted later in significant delays
and only partial accomplishment of the goals of this component.

2.2 Implementation
20.      The implementation of the project experienced some significant delays, which
resulted in extensions of the closing date by a total of 18 months. The project was
approved in September 2005, became effective in June 2006, and the Macedonian
Railways (MR) was restructured and split into Macedonian Railways – Transport (MR-T)
and Macedonian Railways – Infrastructure (MR-I) in August 2007, a year and a half later
than the initially agreed deadline. The delay was attributed to a complex process that
accompanied separation of accounts and establishment of proper legal and institutional
framework. The start of the procurement of the key studies on Cost Reduction, Track
Access Charges, and PSO was also delayed due to somewhat lengthy process of agreeing
on the Terms of Reference for the assignments and procurement under the World Bank
rules, with which the staff of both entities were unfamiliar. The Contracts were signed in
July - September 2007, and two studies were completed in 2008, which provided the
basis for the MR-I and MR-T to move ahead with Track Access Charges and PSO
contract later in 2008 and 2009. The placement of an experienced international
procurement advisor to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at the onset of the project
(as initially envisioned) could have significantly speeded up the procurement process and
minimized these delays.

21.     Due to the provision of the disbursement condition for the investment
subcomponents based on satisfactory company restructuring, the procurement of the rails
and track maintenance machinery only started in 2008. Inexperience with World Bank
procurement requirements for large contracts related to procurement of rolling stock led
to even more delays, and the procurement of wagons for the MR-T was only completed
by the extended closing date of April 30, 2011.

22.    Implementation of the Second Component on Social Mitigation of Retrenched
Staff experienced very significant delays. Soon after the start of implementation it


                                            5
became apparent that the SLB did not have the legal mandate and the capacity to provide
social, psychological and financial counseling, comprehensive training and support to the
retrenched workers. It took almost two years after the project effectiveness to agree with
the counterparts on the change in the approach and decide not to use the SLB for
implementation of this component. It was agreed to use the Human Resources (HR) staff
of both entities to identify the needs of the retrenched workers and develop individual
training programs based on identified needs. All this resulted in the training coming more
than four years after the staffs were laid off, and, as a result, in many instances the
benefits were quite small. Procurement of individual trainings for staff was a very time-
consuming process, and in hindsight, needed to be aggregated into a single procurement,
which then could be subcontracted if necessary based on staff needs.

23.     The Government found it difficult to continue with retrenchment as initially
envisioned, especially with the growing rail traffic up to 2008. The growing
unemployment made this task even more politically sensitive. Since no further staff
retrenchment happened after 2005, the project only focused on those employees that were
laid off in May 2005. A restructuring of this component should have been considered
early on during project implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
24.     Overall, the results framework was adequately designed focusing on indicators
that would measure improvement in the financial and operating performance of the two
entities to report on the achievement of the PDO. The intermediate results indicators were
developed for all four components. Data for indicators was provided by the two entities
and based on the financial analysis done during project implementation. Some additional
indicators could have been considered like rolling stock productivity and unit revenue for
passenger and freight services.

25.     However, it should be noted that during preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) the ICR team encountered numerous inconsistencies between
the financial and operational data reported in the Bank internal Implementation Status
Reports (ISR), Aide-Memoires, audited financial statements of the entities and data
submitted to the ICR team by counterparts. Certain project indicators (on working ratio
and labor productivity) were recorded differently from the original definitions given in
the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). On some occasions, conclusions were drawn in
Aide-Memoires and Implementation Status Reports based on the inadequate data which
may have biased the project rating upwards. The ISRs commented that the original
definition for the first PDO indicator on working ratio for the MR was not valid anymore.
However, a formal change to the indicator has not been documented, nor any changes to
the indicators definitions.

26.    Comprehensive analysis of financial and operating performance is critical for
successful monitoring of the railways projects. However, in the last two years of project
implementation the Bank team did not have a financial expert on board and thus the focus
on analyzing performance of the railways entities was reduced, impeding proper
monitoring and evaluation of project outcomes. The analysis done during the ICR


                                            6
preparation is provided in Annex 3. This analysis contributed to the update of the actual
data for the project performance indicators in the ICR datasheet, and led to some changes
in the numbers compared to what was reported in the last ISR. This updated analysis of
the railways operating and financial performance does not fully justify a satisfactory
rating of project reflected in the last ISR of the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
27.    The project did not finance any civil works and there were no issues with
environmental or social safeguards resulting from physical works.

28.     The procurement capacity (for international competitive procurement) of both
entities was rather limited, largely due to very limited staff capacity in English language.
Since the entire procurement documentation had to be prepared in English, and also the
communication with bidders and consultants needed to be conducted in English, the lack
of adequate English language capability was a serious handicap for the client. Besides
the language problem, client staff also needed a lot of handholding and advice from Bank
staff on how to handle difficulties that came up during the bidding process. The client's
procurement staff was also very much afraid of being accused of any misconduct and
tended to seek approval and no-objections for steps that did not need such no-objections.
The above problems resulted in delays which were aggravated by several changes in
management of the MR-I and the MR-T, since most procurement steps and decisions
needed to be approved by management of the entities.

29.    With regard to the financial management arrangements for the project, these were
assessed to be satisfactory for both implementing entities, MR-I and MR-T. No
weaknesses have been identified in relation to the areas subject to Bank supervision,
namely accounting, financial reporting, internal controls, planning and budgeting, flow of
funds and project audit.

30.      However, it should be noted that the overall financial management capacity of
both entities during project implementation was weak with a number of deficiencies in
the reporting of financial data and internal management controls. The audit opinion on
the entity financial statements for both implementing entities repeatedly either included a
disclaimer of opinion or heavily qualified opinion. Ever since the Macedonian Railways
split into MR-T and MR-I, the auditors (Ernst & Young and Grant Thornton) have been
unable to pass an unqualified opinion on the accuracy of the financial statements for
either company. No audit opinion was passed on MR-T financial statements for 2008-
2010. For MR-I, no audit opinion was passed on the financial statements for 2009-2010
with a qualified opinion passed for 2010. Considerable accounting uncertainties were
behind the auditors’ unwillingness to sign off on the financial statements.

31.     When analyzing project implementation, the weaknesses at the entity level were
not assessed to be a detriment to the project's performance in the financial management
area; therefore the financial management rating was not downgraded on the basis of the
entity audit opinion.




                                             7
32.    In retrospect, capacity strengthening of financial management for both agencies
should have been included in project activities either at design stage, or later when
weaknesses of the systems became apparent. Financial accounting software is being
procured for MR-I under the Bank financed Second Trade and Transport Facilitation
(TTFSE2) project (P091723).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
33.     While the project was able to achieve a lot with regard to the railways reform and
improving the operating capacity of the companies, the challenge for the Government and
the MR-I and MR-T is to sustain and deepen the reform to ensure financial viability of
the railways and efficient, transparent and accountable management. This will require
resolution of the accumulated debt of the entities in a sustainable manner, allowing
private operators to enter the market, further strengthening PSOs, proper allocations in
the country’s budget for rail infrastructure and for payment of the passenger rail transport
services provided under the PSO contracts. Further reforming MR-T is needed with full
separation of accounts for freight and passenger operations and improved market-oriented
management. It is necessary to assess the status of the railway passenger transportation
system to evaluate options for fulfilling the conditions for open access for international
passenger services in accordance with the EU directives and to identify the level of social
passenger rail transport services to be provided.

34.    A Policy Note on Deepening the Reform Agenda in Railways was prepared by the
World Bank team at the end of 2009 to provide a framework for continued process of
reform. This roadmap was discussed during the remaining time of project implementation
and remains a guiding document for deepening the reform of the railways sector in FYR
Macedonia.

35.     With funding from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD) approved in 2010, 53 km of track along three sections of Corridor X will be
upgraded. Modernization of Corridor X will allow improving the operational
performance of the Macedonian railway system, reducing the maintenance costs and
offering higher speed and higher transport capacity. A feasibility study for the
modernization of Corridor VIII was prepared as well.

36.     Technical Assistance under the EBRD loan approved in 2010 will support a rail
safety authority and will help define the appropriate level and structure of PSO going
forward. Further modernization of the rolling stock, especially locomotives will also be
needed.

37.     The National Transport Strategy for 2007-2017 is being regularly revised with the
last revision done in 2010. It is envisioned that in 2012 the strategy will be updated again,
that would include an analysis of different modes of transport and equity considerations
for road and railway transport.

38.    The next step in improving cross-border interoperability is the introduction of
single Europe-wide standard for train control and command systems - European Rail


                                             8
Traffic Management System (ERTMS) level 1 - and international wireless
communications standard for railway communication (GSM-R) with funding from EU
under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA). This project was included in the
IPA program, and the amount of funding needs to be confirmed by the European
Commission (EC). An initial plan of total funding of Euro 6 million (Euro 3 million for
each component) was deemed insufficient by the MR-I which estimated the cost to be
about Euro 5-6 million for each component. One possible solution is to reallocate funding
within the IPA program for FYR Macedonia. It is expected that the project will be
defined by 2012, after which the procurement will start followed by commencement of
installation in 2013 and the systems becoming operational by 2014.

39.     Under the ongoing TTFSE2 a modern railways telecommunication system
connecting Kumanovo, Skopje, Volkovo and Gevgelia (within FYR Macedonia) with
Serbia, Kosovo and Greece (at borders) was established. In addition, a system for
electronic data and information sharing between Customs and Railways is at an advanced
stage of development, with protocols for data exchange with a new Customs system
agreed. MR-T now has all preconditions to exchange data electronically with Customs.
The improvement of the railway communication system resulted in elimination of freight
train processing delays at rail Corridor X border stations Tabanovce-Kumanovo and
Gevgelia.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
40.     The project was highly relevant both during its preparation and implementation.
The highly inefficient and loss-making railways company was a huge burden for the state
budget, and losses were expected to grow further unless a full transformation of the
company was done. The country’s growth potential could not be realized without an
efficient market-oriented and sustainable railway system, which links Europe with
Greece, Turkey and Central Asia via Corridor X. The project was designed to facilitate a
complex reform process of the railways and change the legal and institutional framework
of the sector. Compliance with EU Directives was instrumental for the competitiveness of
FYR Macedonia railways. Ageing rolling stock and inadequate maintenance of tracks
were addressed by targeted investments funded under the project and helped modernize
management of the railways system. Overall, the project fully addressed the country’s
needs and supported critical reforms and investments.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
41.     The project aimed to reform the railway sector in FYR Macedonia by
restructuring the inefficient and loss-making Macedonian Railways into two entities,
separating infrastructure from operations, developing a proper legislative and regulatory
base, establishing open and competitive environment for rail operators by introducing a
system of track access charges, supporting selected passenger services through PSO
contracts and improving the management of the companies. Overall this goal has been
successfully achieved. Macedonian Railways has been transformed into two market-



                                           9
oriented entities, with published Network Statement describing the levels of track access
charges and services provided, with signed PSO contracts, and with developed 3-year
business plans. Key laws were prepared and adopted, including Law on the railway
system, Law on the safety of the railway system, Law on contracts for carriage by rail,
Law on interoperability within the rail system, Law on transport of dangerous goods by
road and rail, etc. An independent Regulatory Body and a Safety Agency were
established. All this ensured conformity with the EU rail regulations and placed FYR
Macedonia ahead of many neighboring countries on the path of reforms. The railway
reform could be considered a success story in Europe, as confirmed by the favorable
opinion of the EU commission in its FYR Macedonia Progress Report.

42.     The operational capacity of the MR-T was significantly improved by procurement
of locomotives and flat-bed wagons. This was the only renewal of rolling stock done in
the last couple decades and was critically needed. Track maintenance machines and rails
and sleepers procured under the project helped improve maintenance of tracks through
mechanization of maintenance works and targeted improvements on the tracks to reduce
the number of speed restrictions on the corridor. Installation of the Central Traffic
Control (CTC) system allowed efficient management of traffic on 19 stations on Corridor
X.

43.     The downward trend in traffic was reversed during project implementation.
Passenger traffic showed steady gains each year from 2004-2009 despite the global
financial crisis of 2008-2009. Total increase in passenger traffic over the period was 64
percent. Freight traffic also increased in terms of net-ton kilometers and net tons
transported. Volumes dropped by one-third from the 2007 peak during the financial crisis
and recovered only slowly in 2010. The overall change during project implementation
was positive with 17 percent more net ton-km in 2009 compared to the baseline year of
2004. Freight traffic volumes recovered somewhat in 2010, while passenger volumes
remained flat. One indicator target was for MR-T to establish operating capacity for 3
million tons by end 2006 and carry this traffic by end 2007. This target was successfully
achieved by 2005 although the upward trend in tons transported declined during the
financial crisis.

44.    Overall, the outcomes of the project are quite significant both at the reform and
investments side.

45.     The project outcomes were evaluated and the rating of the outcomes established,
based on the achievement of the Project Development Objective stipulated in the PAD
and legal agreements, which was to improve the financial viability, productivity and
effectiveness of railway operations.

46.     Here the results are rather mixed and, while the global financial crisis in 2008-
2009 significantly impacted the financial and operating performance, it cannot be
attributed fully to low results. Unwillingness and lack of political commitment to
continue staff retrenchment and rationalization of rail services, and inefficient
management also contributed to the weak financial performance.



                                           10
47.    Only a few targets set out in the results framework for the project have been
achieved, mainly for institutional reform and MR-T operating capacity. Labor
productivity showed steady growth in the years preceding the financial crisis due to
growth of freight traffic and initial retrenchment of staff, however it reversed in 2008 and
2009, and only in 2010 showed growth again, narrowly missing the target. Still, the labor
productivity is at about 38% of the average level in the EU. The target for working ratio
for MR-I was almost reached showing significant reduction over the years of project
implementation.

48.    However, escalating costs over 2004-2009 pushed the working ratio for passenger
operations significantly to deteriorate from 346% to a worrisome 608%. Overall the
working ratio for both entities while decreased from 124%, stayed short of the 80% target
at 105% in 2010.

49.    The Government and the railway entities would need to focus on further
improving the financial and operating performance of the railway system in FYR
Macedonia to reach the level at which the entities can successfully compete with other
operators in the open transport market in Europe.

3.3 Efficiency
50.     The project aimed to increase labor productivity 1 which until the base year of
2004 was very low compared to EU standards. Over 2004-2009, labor productivity rose
by 51 percent reaching 218,237. The global financial crisis and the resulting slowdown
in freight volumes negatively affected the 2009 productivity level, which declined to a
level slightly below the target of 240,000 after exceeding the target in all three preceding
years on the back of strong traffic growth and staff reductions. However, the productivity
upturn in 2010 is encouraging and may suggest a return to the pre-2009 trend. Still, labor
productivity remains low compared to the EU average, suggesting that MR-T and MR-I
will need to further reduce staff in order to raise labor productivity over the medium-term.

51.     The reforms introduced as part of the project were meant to bring MR’s losses
under control. The indicator for this was the working ratio, which was supposed to
decrease to 80 percent from 124 percent before the project start. However, although
revenues increased 35 percent from 2004-2009, total costs rose by 60 percent, which
resulted in a working ratio of 108 percent in 2009. The net loss before subsidy stayed
uncomfortably above MKD 1 billion during 2006-2009. The borrower’s inability to
prevent cost escalation was a critical factor behind the disappointing reduction in the
working ratio.

52.   The aim for MR-I, which was separated from the previously integrated
Macedonian Railways in 2007, was to bring the working ratio without subsidy to 100


1
    Defined as (freight net ton-kilometers + passenger-km) / total staff at MR (or successors thereof).



                                                       11
percent by 2009. The working ratio did decrease over 2004-2009 to 108 percent, almost
meeting the target. This was due to doubling of infrastructure fee revenue over the period,
which reflects the project goal of having freight and passenger operators increase their
compensation to MR-I for track access.

53.    The aim for the freight operations of MR-T, which was separated from the
previously integrated Macedonian Railways in 2007, was to bring the working ratio
below 60 percent by 2009. The working ratio fluctuated over 2004-2009 but ended up at
57 percent in 2009 meeting the set target. This was due to relatively higher revenue
growth compared to operating costs before depreciation.

54.     The aim for the passenger operations of MR-T was also gradually to reduce
government financial support and bring the working ratio below 300 percent by 2009. On
the contrary, the need for government support increased by MKD 200 million over 2004-
2009. This goal proved unrealistic as escalating costs over 2004-2009 pushed the
working ratio without subsidy to a worrisome 608 percent. This was due to a doubling of
operating costs compared to modest non-subsidy revenue increases over the period. The
costs increase is partially attributed to the decision of the Government to open additional
passenger lines, adding to the heavy financial burden of the MR-T.

55.      The original financial analysis as presented in the PAD indicated that the project
is financially viable, returning a positive net present value (NPV) of EUR 1.5 million at a
discount rate of 12 percent, following an investment of EUR 15 million. The financial
rate of return was calculated as 16 percent. After the project has been completed, it can be
observed that project costs, investment and finance charges did not change dramatically.
Project benefits from incremental freight revenue, labor cost savings and other operating
cost savings have been realized but with a delay. Staff reductions proved more difficult
than initially predicted and the unforeseen global financial crisis considerably decreased
freight revenue. Therefore, while project costs remained unchanged, project benefits did
not materialize on the planned schedule and as a result, the initial NPV and financial rate
of return appear to have been over-optimistic. Exact calculations of the final NPV and
rate of return have not been produced due to inadequate information on assumptions
behind the original benefit calculations.

56.    The old historical debt of both companies was written off at the decision of the
Government on February 24, 2009. However, since then the financial situation of the
companies, especially MR-T continued to deteriorate and more debt was accumulated by
MR-T. To help resolve the debt for MR-T, the Government decision 192 of November 9,
2010 instructed the MoF and MTC together with the MR-T to find a solution to the debt.
The financial situation of the MR-I is expected significantly to improve on the books
when the depreciation method is revised based on the recommendations of the recently
completed study on asset valuation financed under the project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.



                                              12
57.    The project was and still is very relevant and was able to achieve a lot with
successful completion of critical steps on the path of the railways reform and targeted
investments. However, the achievement of the PDO in improving the financial and
operating performance of the railways system cannot be considered fully satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
n/a

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
n/a

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
n/a

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

58.     The risk to the sustainability of project outcomes is rated moderate because while
the proper legal and institutional framework for reformed railway sector has been already
established, the reform process needs to continue. All laws necessary for compliance with
EU requirements have been adopted; two entities for infrastructure and operations have
been fully established and are operational. A new traffic safety authority and a regulatory
body have been established as well. However, there is a risk that inefficiencies in
management of transport operations will continue creating losses and present potential
burden for the national budget. It is anticipated that this risk would be minimized with the
commitment of the MTC and MoF to continue the reform process supported by the TA
under the ongoing EBRD project and policy dialogue with the World Bank and EU. The
Policy Note on Deepening the Reform Agenda prepared under the project will continue
to serve as a roadmap for continuing the reform. The investments under the project
helped improve the track maintenance, which will further support sustainability of the
railways.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory.

59.    The project was preceded by several years of policy dialogue about reforming the
railways and preparatory work done under the previous Transport Sector Project with
some consulting studies to support and focus the restructuring. This enabled reaching key


                                            13
agreements and actions, and agreeing on the reform agenda before the project was
approved. The Bank established a strong team of specialists including a railways expert
and a financial analyst to review the railways performance and recommend the reform
options most suitable for FYR Macedonia.

60.      The project was overall well designed, with a balanced approach combining
institutional reform with investments on the ground. The project was initially expected to
be completed within three and a half years. In retrospect, more time should have been
allowed for project implementation given the complexity of the reform involving two
companies and all major steps that needed to be prepared and implemented, as well as
taking into account the inexperience of the companies with large procurements that took
considerable time to complete. Also, in hindsight, a more thorough assessment and
discussion with counterparts needed to be done when designing the second component to
ensure that the proposed approach was workable. Given the overall high quality of the
technical preparation of the project, the ICR rates the Quality at Entry as satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

61.      The focus of supervision on the reforms and regular policy dialogue, especially in
the first years of project implementation, ensured successful implementation of most key
reform actions, albeit with delays. The technical expertise of the railway experts on the
Bank’s team was highly recognized by the counterparts. At the same time it should be
noted that during five years of project implementation there were five Task Team
Leaders. This negatively affected the focus on consistent project implementation and on
minimizing delays. Also, over time, the focus of the policy dialogue on further labor
reduction and making railways more efficient was diminished during project
implementation. The team needed to ensure proper monitoring of financial and operating
performance of the railways and ensuring consistency of data used for indicators. The
Bank team should have been more proactive in addressing severe delays under the
Second Component and should have attempted to restructure the project in order to adjust
to changes in approach and priorities. The change of some indicator definitions should
have been formally recorded. It should be also noted that due to the limited lending
envelope, the Bank did not support the request from the Government for another loan that
would have financed modernization of rail Corridor X. This could have provided a good
opportunity to support further reform of the railways in FYR Macedonia. This project
was eventually funded by the EBRD.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

62.    The combined rating for the Bank’s performance is moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                            14
63.     The Borrower was fully engaged in project preparation and implementation. The
commitment to the project objectives varied somewhat due to political changes in the
Government but remained quite strong on the overall reform of the railways and approval
of the necessary legislative and regulatory framework. The Project Steering Committee
and Expert Working Group were established to oversee and guide project implementation.
However, some decisions proved to be very difficult, especially related to continuing
labor retrenchment and pushing for more accountable and efficient management and
commercialization of transport operations. Changing the managerial mindset was also
difficult, and the comprehensive management training program envisioned under the
project was never realized. The reform agenda is unfinished and the Government needs to
make decisions on the next steps in the reform process.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

64.      The project was implemented by two entities – MR-I and MR-T with the joint
PIU set up under the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Implementation of
activities under the project was managed by Project Coordinators from each agency
supported by fiduciary staff. There was good cooperation between the PIU with the
World Bank team. The performance of the two implementing entities was uneven, with
more limited capacity in the MR-T project team. Procurement under World Bank rules
proved to be quite challenging and time-consuming for the PIU staff with no prior
experience. The inconsistency of financial and operating performance data provided by
the PIU was noted earlier in the ICR.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65.    The combined rating for the Borrower’s performance is moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

66.    Planning for slow implementation of institutional reforms. Implementation of
complex reforms takes time and the project timeline should have accommodated possible
delays with decision making. Maintaining regular policy dialogue is therefore key to
success. Supervision budget needs to provide for constant engagement of technical
experts and allow for frequent visits at times of critical decisions.

67.      Combining institutional reform and investments under the same project.
Careful consideration should be given whether to combine physical investments with
institutional reform of the sector. In many cases, such combination would be prone to
significant delays and unsatisfactory implementation due to the fact that institutional
reform is a lengthy and politically sensitive process and many factors could influence the
pace of reforms. If critically needed investments require quick implementation, it might
be wise not to tie them with complex institutional reform project; they would be better
handled under a separate project. However, if, as was the case in FYR Macedonia, the


                                           15
political commitment is quite strong and a number of critical steps have been already
undertaken on the reform front, having additional incentive of investments after
completion of required actions, works to the benefit of the project and leads to good
results. The decision on the type of the project needs to be carefully made after a
thorough analysis on a case-by-case basis.

68.     Comprehensive analysis of financial and operating performance is critical for
successful monitoring of railways projects. A recommendation for future railway
projects would be to pay special attention to consistent interpretation and recording of
project indicators, particularly when the team composition changes. During project
preparation, it should be highly encouraged to clearly document the steps behind NPV
and Internal Rate of Return (IRR) calculations. Financial analysis should be regularly
done to monitor properly performance of railways companies. Capacity building of the
counterparts in analysis of their financial and operating data should be considered and
could strengthen project monitoring.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

69.     The Ministry of Transport and Communications expressed appreciation for the
comprehensive ICR and confirmed its agreement with the report findings. Minor
corrections were suggested for the names of the railways laws and were adequately
reflected in the ICR.

70.     The MR-I provided comments regarding the financial analysis, and in particular,
whether it was appropriate to combine the financial data for both agencies for the period
2007-2010. The financial analysis was done for both entities; however, to compare the
estimates done at the project appraisal with the results achieved at the project end, the
financial analysis also looked at the combined data from the two companies for the
outcome indicators on labor productivity and working ratio, the way how the indicators
were originally defined. There was no official revision to the indicators even though in
practice the entities started recording the indicator data differently. That practice was
misleading however, since the initial PDO indicator target of 80% applied to the
combined result and did not have any targets for the entities separately. MR-I also
disagreed with some of the data, namely table 4 of the financial analysis. The ICR team
relied on audited financial statement whenever it could not establish the validity of the
data submitted by MR-I.




                                           16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

a) Project Cost by Component (in Euro Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (Euro
                                 (Euro millions)                              Appraisal
                                                        millions)
 Technical Assistance for
restructuring, regulation, preparatory
steps for private sector involvement,         1.522               0.85            56%
and implementation capacity building
and support
 Social Mitigation                            0.65                0.03            4%
 Increasing Operating Capacity                7.92                8.39           106%
 Mechanization of track maintenance
                                              5.27                5.54           105%
and infrastructure modernization


                Total Baseline Cost          15.36               14.80            0.96
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00            0.00
                Total Project Costs          15.36               14.80            0.96
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                0.00             .00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.038               0.038            .00
         Total Financing Required            15.40               14.84            0.96




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of Co-      Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          financing        (Euro        (Euro      Appraisal
                                                          millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                              0.40         0.14         0.35
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       15.00       14.70        0.98
and Development




                                               17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Technical Assistance for restructuring, regulation, preparatory steps for
private sector involvement, and implementation capacity building and support (€1.52
million):

1.      The component supported implementation of the railway reform and resulted in
establishing the legal and institutional framework for the sector:

2.     A number of laws were prepared and adopted, including Law on the railway
system, Law on the safety of the railway system, Law on contracts for carriage by rail,
Law on interoperability within the rail system, Law on transport of dangerous goods by
road and rail, in conformity with the Aquis Communautaire of the European Union.

3.      Two independent rail companies were established as successors to Macedonian
Railways—Public Enterprise Macedonian Railways Infrastructure (MR-I) and the joint-
stock company Macedonian Railways Transport (MR-T). The separation of accounts
between the infrastructure manager and the rail undertaking is ensured through the legal
separation into two companies, in line with Directive 2001/12/EC, and the separation of
accounts between passenger and freight services within MR-T was started in 2010,
following the decision of the management committee in late September 2010 to divide
passenger and freight accounts. Three-year business plans were prepared by both entities
in early 2011, and a multi-year contract between the infrastructure manager (MR-I) and
the Government was negotiated during the time of the ICR mission in spring 2011. Key
Performance Indicators for MR-I and MR-T were developed in 2010. The MTC will see
if possible to include support in development of targets for indicators as part of the
planned TA under a grant managed by EBRD. The Director of the MR-I is selected on a
competitive basis by placing a public call (public announcement of the position) and is
selected and confirmed by the Steering Board of the MR-I appointed by Government.
MR-T management is not selected in open competition but selected and appointed by the
Management Board.

4.     The Regulatory Railway Agency was established in 2009 after the passage of the
law and consists of 4 staff. There is a Steering Board of four people appointed by
Parliament. The Railway Agency is responsible for licensing operators and infrastructure
managers, appeals, and overseeing quality of services by operators and infra managers.

5.      A Safety Agency has been established under the MTC. After the passage of the
Safety Law in April 2010, the Director was appointed. In 2011 it is planned to employ ten
staff as part of the Safety Agency (out of which five will be moved from MTC and five
will be hired). A letter to MoF was submitted to allow this hire. It is expected that by end
2011 this staff will be in place. It is planned that five more people each year will be hired
in 2012 and 2013. The agency will deal with safety, interoperability (Technical
Specifications for Interoperability (TSI) standards) and technical inspections.


                                             18
6.     The component envisioned preparation of four consultancies studies that would
provide analysis and recommendations on key areas of the reform:

7.      Staffing and cost reduction study. The initial output of the study produced in
2007-2008 was of low quality and after the changes in the team, the improved report was
prepared in 2009. The recommendations of the cost reduction study were submitted to the
government in August 2009 with the expectation that it would instruct MR-I and MR-T
to continue staff retrenchment, however, the government stated that the associated
retrenchment costs would need to be found in the agencies’ budget. By law, the severance
payments are paid by the state. When reviewing the options for implementing
recommendations of the study the companies enquired among staff for volunteers for
early retirements, but not many volunteered.

8.      The retrenchment done in 2005 prior to the project was not done based on a
thorough analysis, which lead to the reduction of staff across the entire organization, even
in those departments that were understaffed. Followed by the hiring freeze imposed by
the Ministry of Finance, this created a situation where the MR-I experienced a lack of
skilled staff, particularly in traffic (signaling) and catenary units. Thus, the staff from
sub-stations on Corridor X, which will be closed due to introduction of CTC system, will
be reallocated to other sub-stations that are understaffed. Finding qualified staff becomes
even more difficult when introducing new technologies. Age structure is an issue; most of
staff are over 53-54 years old. Since 2005, some small reduction of staff happened due to
natural attrition. The MR-I were considering some options like early retirement or
providing incentives for voluntary separation, but nothing has started yet. This action will
require efforts and political will in the government and at the MR-I. Some reduction is
expected in the administrative departments after the new system (FM and accounting) is
procured and introduced in MR-I under the TTFSE 2 project. It has been agreed between
MoF and MTC that MoF would allow, on an exceptional basis, to hire 30 new staff for
MR-I (in accordance to the business plan).

9.       After completion of the cost reduction study and adoption of its recommendations
by MR-I, the company developed a proposal for reducing the network and closing some
rail lines. However, this proposal was not supported by MR-T who would have had to
close train services on these lines, which would have led to massive lay-offs of workers.
This required strong political will, which was lacking.

10.    Transport company privatization study with advisory services. TOR for the
study was prepared, but the Government was not convinced in the need for privatization
of MR-T. There were no examples of privatizations in the EU, and the traffic was
growing at that time, so at the request of the Government the Bank agreed to cancel this
study.

11.    Track Access Charge (TAC) study. Track Access Charges have been formally
introduced following completion of the study and are being paid by MR-T to MR-I The
TAC initial rate was set at around Euro 12 per km, but was strongly opposed by the MR-



                                            19
T. As a result of discussions with the Government and MR-T, and after looking at the
countries in the region, the TAC was set at less than Euro 6 per km (for passenger). The
revenues from collection of TAC together with the subsidy from the state are expected to
cover all operating costs of MR-I, however, in the last two years, the contribution from
the national budget was reduced due to the constraints imposed by the global crisis and
this created a problem of covering all costs. The TAC is included in the Network
Statement, which is made public. Network statements for 2009 and 2010 could be found
on the MR-I website at: http://www.mz.com.mk/Section2/

12.     Public Services Obligations (PSO) study. Based on the recommendations of the
study the PSO contract was prepared in 2009 after some delays, and in 2010 the
government made the decision to allocate money for the PSO contracts. The first contract
for the period August – December 2010 was signed for 77 million denars (Euro 1.5
million), however the last invoice in December 2010 for 18 million denars wasn’t paid
due to the lack of money in the budget at the end of the year. This indebtedness will be
resolved at the rebalancing of the budget in 2011. The current PSO contract covers only
the cost of Track Access Charges paid by the MR-T to the infrastructure manager.

Component 2: Social mitigation (€0.65 million):

13.     The component was envisioned to provide a variety of employment services to the
retrenched staff, such as: (a) social, psychological, and financial counseling to the willing
staff (b) one-to-one consultation with the retrenched staff to determine the most
appropriate training needs for the staff; and (c) facilitating actual staff training by
providing a voucher to every inquiring retrenched staff to be used for training of his or
her choice in selected institutions to be identified. The component was also to support the
Skopje Labor Bureau (SLB) which was to provide most of the above services through (d)
furniture and equipment.

14.     The component was implemented only partially and experienced very significant
delays. Soon after the start of implementation it became apparent that the Skopje Labor
Bureau (SLB) did not have the capacity to provide social, psychological and financial
counseling, comprehensive training and support to the retrenched workers. It took almost
two years after the project approval to agree with counterparts on the change in the
approach and to make the decision not to use the SLB for implementation of this
component. Instead, it was agreed to identify the needs of the retrenched workers by the
HR staff of both entities and develop individual training programs based on identified
needs. This resulted in the training becoming available more than four years after staff
were laid off, and in many instances the benefits were quite small. Restructuring of this
component early on in project implementation should have been considered.

15.     Procurement of individual trainings for staff was a very time-consuming process,
and in hindsight, needed to be aggregated into a single procurement, which then could be
subcontracted, if necessary, based on staff needs. Because the MR-T and MR-I needed to
procure every single training, with some contracts amounting to only about 200- 300
Euros, the procurement took a big toll on the time of the staff of the agencies and time of



                                             20
the Bank staff, who were asked to provide no-objections by the agencies, even though
formally that was not required.

16.     Since no further staff retrenchment happened since 2005, the project only focused
on those employees that were laid off in May 2005. Overall, from a bit less that 700
retrenched employees, 153 people participated in the interviews and 93 people expressed
the interest in receiving training, and 43 people completed the training. The training
included driving classes, computer classes, accounting, small business management and a
number of skills such as a welder heavy machines operator, fireman, etc. Since many of
the retrenched workers were close to retirement age and were not interested in retraining
it was agreed to cover some costs of tuition for children of the workers who studied in
higher educational institutions. In total 29 people were provided with tuition support.
The implementation of this component resulted in an unexpected benefit – increased
knowledge and capacity of the HR to handle issues related to staff retrenchment and
provision of training and professional development for laid off workers.


Component 3: Increasing Operating Capacity (€7.90 million) of MR-Transport:

17.    The component comprised: remanufacturing and retrofitting of two electric
locomotives, re-manufacturing and retrofitting of two 4-unit EMU, procurement of two
shunting locomotives, retrofitting of 60 wagons to handle new steel traffic, and
procurement of 20 new flat bed wagons.

18.      The start of implementation of the investments under this component was delayed
by almost two years due to the disbursement condition that stipulated that any
expenditures for physical investments for MR-I and MR-T companies would only be
allowed after the Bank received satisfactory evidence that the Borrower had restructured
itself in accordance with the Railways Laws and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
During this period the perception of priority needs in rolling stock changed, and after
discussions with the Bank, it was agreed to modify the list of investments to be financed
under the project.

19.    Two electric locomotives of series 461 were retrofitted and redesigned as series
462, and four diesel locomotives of series 642 were retrofitted and modernized and put
into operation.

20.     Thirty six new flat bed wagons were procured from two suppliers. There were
significant delays with the procurement, production and acceptance of the wagons, which
required a six-month extension of the project. The wagons were certified, delivered and
accepted just by the time of the project closing in April 2011.


Component 4: Mechanization of track maintenance and Infrastructure modernization
(€5.25 million) for MR-Infrastructure:

21.    The component comprised: supply and installation of CTC system, track


                                           21
mechanized maintenance equipment, i.e., sleeper replacement, reballasting, and tamping
machines, heavy rail vehicles., other equipment, loader trucks and track machine for
catenary service, building inventory of rails, sleepers, and switching parts, and capacity
allocation and information system for infrastructure.

22.     Procurement of track maintenance machines and materials were successfully
completed as envisioned in the PAD. Rails and sleepers procured under the project were
installed in the critical sections of the tracks. Maintenance machines such as sleeper
replacement machine, digger/loader and reballasting machine, as well as machine for
catenary maintenance allowed for mechanization of track maintenance works and
increasing labor productivity and ensuring better quality. New service vehicles and HY
rail vehicles provided for more efficient and safe maintenance.

23.     The Central Traffic Control (CTC) System was procured and installed in 2010 to
upgrade the interlocking system and to control the traffic on the entire Corridor X and
should result in improved traffic safety on the Corridor and improvement in traffic flow.
At the time of the ICR mission the CTC was still in a testing stage, so the benefits were
not possible to assess yet. With savings realized under the project, a Videowall was
procured to complement the CTC and increase its efficiency.

24.     The Railway Information Management System (RIMS) – was procured and
installed in 2010 and is managed by the maintenance department of the MR-I.
Procurement was much delayed due to the fact that the development of bidding
documents for IT procurement was a complex task and required many iterations. Benefits
are expected to be felt in a year time, when maintenance planning would be possible on a
monthly and daily basis, and when the system will give a good overview of what needs to
be maintained and when. Collection of data was done in the fall of 2010, and all old
historical data was inputted in the database. All migration of data was completed by the
end of April 2011. Next measurement is planned for 2012 when Corridor X
reconstruction will require new data, and will be done on an annual basis after that. It is
expected that starting in 2011 the maintenance department will start to use the system for
planning purposes, with full reports done by the end of the year. Training was provided
on the use of the system, collection and input of data and the last training on report
generation, analysis and planning of maintenance was completed by the project closing
date. There is a guarantee period of 1 year during which the supplier will provide some
assistance when needed. The system is installed on 21 workstations, and about 30 staff
received training. The staff from the IT department underwent the training, and was also
trained to provide further training on the use of the system to any newcomers. The MR-I
established 5 levels of staff using the system, starting from simple data entry and
finishing with discussing and approving prepared maintenance plans, thus effectively
covering about 70 percent of staff in the maintenance department. The agency plans to
further simplify this process and have three levels of responsibilities.

25.    A study on modernization of Corridor X was done under the project, which
determined that about Euro 27 million was needed for Corridor development. Later, the
EBRD provided funding for this investment.



                                            22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Macedonian Railways’ financial background. Macedonian Railways’ (MR) financial
position had considerably deteriorated before project preparation started and become
unsustainable by the early 2000s. MR was simultaneously struggling with falling traffic
volumes, inefficient operations and a bloated cost structure. Without significant reform of
the sector and reorganization of operations, MR was headed for a permanent financial
crisis.

Financial assumptions. The Railway Reform Project was designed to improve the
financial viability, productivity, and effectiveness of railway operations. This was going
to be achieved through restructuring of Macedonian Railways into separate operating and
infrastructure companies, reducing staff, making targeted investments and rationalizing
operations.

Traffic. The downward trend in traffic was reversed during project implementation
(Table 1, Graph 1). Passenger traffic showed steady gains each year from 2004-2009
despite the global financial crisis. Total change in passenger traffic over the period was
64 percent. Freight traffic also increased in terms of net-ton kilometers and net tons
transported. Volumes dropped by one-third from the 2007 peak during the financial crisis
and recovered only slowly in 2010. The overall change during project implementation
was positive with 17 percent more net ton-km in 2009 compared to the baseline year of
2004. Freight traffic volumes recovered somewhat in 2010, while passenger volumes
remained flat.

One indicator target was for MR-T to establish operating capacity for 3 million tons by
end 2006 and carry this traffic by end 2007. This target was successfully achieved
already in 2005 although the upward trend in tons transported declined during the crisis.

                                                  Table 1: Traffic Volume

                                      % change             % change                                       % change
                                                   2004                2005   2006   2007   2008   2009               2010
                                      1990-2002            2002-2004                                      2004-2009
Freight
 Tons                                   -66%        2.64     19%       3.13   3.80   4.69   4.21   2.93     11%       3.10
 Target                                                                              3.00
 Net Ton-Km (million)                   -57%        426      28%       530    614    778    743    497      17%       525

Passenger
 Passenger-Km (million)                 -72%        94       -4%       94     105    109    148    154      64%       155

Traffic Units (tkm + pkm) (million)     -62%        520      20%       624    719    887    891    651      25%       680
Source: MR-T




                                                               23
                                         Graph 1: Traffic Volume

    900
    800
    700
    600
    500
    400
    300
    200
    100
      0
            2000    2001    2002    2003    2004     2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010

                      Passenger (million pass-km)            Freight (million net ton-km)

Source: MR-T



Staff restructuring. One key component of MR restructuring was to improve labor
productivity by reducing the number of employees. In 2005, MR retrenched 688 staff but
in the subsequent years the reductions were minor (Table 2). In 2007, the Railways were
forced to re-hire 137 of the previously terminated employees. Because of the reluctance
of the Government and management of the entities to push for further retrenchment of
staff, the 2009 staffing target of 2,450 was not met. The combined number of staff at both
MR-T and MR-I that year was 2,983

Staff productivity. The project also aimed to increase labor productivity2 which until the
base year of 2004 had been very low compared to EU standards. Over 2004-2009, labor
productivity rose by 51 percent reaching 218,237 (Table 2). The global financial crisis
and the resulting slowdown in freight volumes caused the 2009 productivity level to be
slightly below the target of 240,000, which had been exceeded in the three preceding
years on the back of strong traffic growth and staff reductions. However, the productivity
upturn in 2010 is encouraging and may suggest a return to the pre-2009 trend.




2
    Defined as (freight net ton-kilometers + passenger-km) / total staff at MR (or successors thereof).



                                                       24
                                             Table 2: Staffing levels and staff productivity

Year                                   2000         2001         2002         2003           2004      2005        2006      2007      2008       2009       2010
Number of staff at MR-I                 2,362        2,272        2,204        2,111          2,096                           1,497     1,530      1,512      1,485
Number of staff at MR-T                 1,782        1,714        1,651        1,543          1,513                           1,419     1,501      1,471      1,442
Total                                   4,144        3,986        3,855        3,654          3,609      2,921      2,879     2,916     3,031      2,983      2,927
Target number of staff                                                                                                                             2,450

Traffic units (mln)                       703     595                432          465        520          624         719       887       891         651     680
Labor productivity (TU/staff)         169,724 149,183            112,146      127,242    144,084      213,625     249,739   304,184   293,962     218,237 232,320
Labor productivity target                                                                                                                         240,000
Part-time employees with MR-T are included in years 2008-2009.
Source: MR-T


Working ratio. The reforms introduced as part of the project were meant to bring MR’s
losses under control. The indicator for this was the working ratio3, which was supposed to
decrease to 80 percent from 124 percent before the project (Table 3). However, although
revenues increased 35 percent from 2004-2009, total costs rose by 60 percent, which
resulted in working ratio being 108 percent in 2009. Net loss before subsidy stayed
uncomfortably above MKD 1 billion from 2006-2009. The borrower’s inability to
prevent cost escalation was a critical factor behind the disappointing reduction in the
working ratio.

                           Table 3: MR Finances (including successor companies thereof)

                                                                                                               MR Finances (MR-T + MR-I)
MKD mln                                                     2000       2001       2002     2003         2004      2005    2006     2007    2008       2009      2010
Revenue (operating + non-operating)                       2,669      2,188      1,433    1,377        2,013     1,755 1,738      2,845   2,980      2,720     2,659
Costs (incl. depreciation and fin. charges)               2,946      2,634      2,378    2,383        2,639     2,341 3,011      4,097   4,749      4,229     3,557
Depreciation                                                                                                      218     202    1,260   1,282      1,294       754
Profit (deficit)                                           (278)      (446)      (945) (1,006)        (626)      (586) (1,274) (1,252) (1,778)     (1,509)     (898)
Subsidy                                                        0          0        280     183          194       213     136      252     186        662       392
Net Result                                                 (278)      (446)      (665)   (823)        (432)      (372) (1,138) (1,000) (1,587)       (848)     (506)
Working Ratio (without subsidy)                             89%        98%       139% 138%            124%       121% 162%        100%    116%       108%      105%
Working Ratio target                                                                                                                                  80%
Source: MR-T and MR-I, audited financial statements


MR-I finances. The aim for MR-I, which was separated from the previously integrated
Macedonian Railways in 2007, was to bring the working ratio without subsidy to 100
percent by 2009. The working ratio did decrease over 2004-2009 to 108 percent, almost
meeting the target. This was due to doubling of infrastructure fee revenue over the period,
which reflects the project goal of having freight and passenger operators increase their
compensation to MR-I for track access.




3
    Defined as operating costs before depreciation / operating revenue (with and without state contribution).



                                                                                        25
                                           Table 4: MR-I Finances

                                                                                              Change
           Macedonia, FYR - MKD ('000)                       2004        2008        2009      2004-        2010
                                                                                               2009
Infrastructure
 Total revenue                                                 546         988       1,086        99%         750
   Operating revenue                                           342         778         854       150%         609
     Infrastructure fees                                       283         691         579       105%         511
   Non-operating revenue                                                    20          39                     31
   State contribution                                          194         186         190         -2%        108
   Financial income                                                          5           4                      3
 Total expenditure                                           1,093       2,024       1,987        82%       1,286
 Total operating expenditure                                   925       1,921       1,887       104%       1,237
   Depreciation                                                193         958         962       399%         415
 Net income
  With state contribution                                      (547)    (1,035)   (901)           -65%       (536)
  Without state contribution                                   (741)    (1,221) (1,090)           -47%       (644)
 Working ratio
  With state contribution                                      137%       100%         89%        -35%       115%
  Without state contribution                                   214%       124%        108%        -49%       135%
 Working ratio target (without subsidy)                                               100%
Working ratio calculated as: total operating costs before depreciation divided by total operating revenue (with /
without subsidy). State contribution is defined as government grants received in cash. Source: PAD p.52 for
baseline 2004 values. Operating and non-operating revenues for 2008-2010 are based on MR-I data and audited
financial statements. Infrastructure fees, state contribution, financial income and all expenditure items are from
audited MR-I financial statements for 2008-2011.


MR-T freight finances. The aim for the freight operations of MR- T, which was
separated from the previously integrated Macedonian Railways in 2007, was to bring the
working ratio below 60 percent by 2009. The working ratio fluctuated over 2004-2009
but ended up at 57 percent in 2009 meeting the set target. This was due to relatively
higher revenue growth compared to operating costs before depreciation.




                                                          26
                                        Table 5: MR-T Freight Finances

                                                                                               Change
           Macedonia, FYR - MKD ('000)                       2004        2008        2009       2004-       2010
                                                                                                2009
Freight
 Total revenue                                               1,526       2,024       1,910         25%      1,869
   Operating revenue                                         1,097       1,864       1,759         60%      1,484
   State contribution                                          -           -           236                    142
 Total expenditure                                           1,019       1,880       1,260         24%      1,334
 Total operating expenditure                                   751       1,759       1,218         62%      1,284
   Infrastructure fees                                         259
   Depreciation                                                  14         212        218      1457%          220
 Net income
   With state contribution                                     507          144        650         28%         535
   Without state contribution                                  507          144        414        -18%         393
 Working ratio
   With state contribution                                      67%         83%         50%       -25%         65%
   Without state contribution                                   67%         83%         57%       -15%         72%
 Working ratio target (without subsidy)                                                 60%
Working ratio calculated as: total operating costs before depreciation divided by total operating revenue (with/without subsidy)
Source: MR-T


MR-T passenger finances. The aim for the passenger operations of MR Transport,
which was separated from the previously integrated Macedonian Railways in 2007, was
to gradually reduce government financial support and bring the working ratio below 300
percent by 2009. On the contrary, the need for government support increased by MKD
200 million over 2004-2009. This aim proved unrealistic as escalating costs over 2004-
2009 pushed the working ratio without subsidy to a worrisome 608 percent. This was due
to a doubling of operating costs compared to modest non-subsidy revenue increases over
the period.




                                                              27
                                       Table 6: MR-T Passenger Finances

                                                                                               Change
           Macedonia, FYR - MKD ('000)                       2004        2008        2009       2004-       2010
                                                                                                2009
Passenger
 Total revenue                                                 136          151        385       183%          433
   Operating revenue                                           109          140        139        28%          226
   State contribution                                          -            -          236                     201
 Total expenditure                                             528          845        983        86%          937
 Total operating expenditure                                   457          781        960       110%          917
   Infrastructure fees                                           24
   Depreciation                                                  80         111        115         44%         120
 Net income
   With state contribution                                    (392)        (694)      (362)         8%        (303)
   Without state contribution                                 (392)        (694)      (598)       -53%        (504)
 Working ratio
   With state contribution                                    346%        479%        225%        -35%        187%
   Without state contribution                                 346%        479%        608%         76%        353%
 Working ratio target (without subsidy)                                               300%
Working ratio calculated as: total operating costs before depreciation divided by total operating revenue (with/without subsidy)
Source: MR-T


Financial appraisal of the project. The original financial analysis as presented in the
PAD indicated that the project is financially viable, returning a positive net present value
(NPV) of EUR 1.5 million at a discount rate of 12 percent, following an investment of
EUR 15 million. The financial rate of return was calculated as 16 percent. After the
project has been completed, it can be observed that project costs, investment and finance
charges, did not change dramatically. Project benefits from incremental freight revenue,
labor cost savings and other operating cost savings have been realized but with a delay.
Staff reductions proved more difficult than initially predicted and the unforeseen global
financial crisis decreased freight revenue considerably. It is therefore likely that, while
project costs remained unchanged, project benefits did not materialize on the planned
schedule causing the initial NPV and financial rate of return to have been over-optimistic.
Exact calculations of the final NPV and rate of return have not been produced due to
uncertain assumptions behind the original benefit calculations.

To be able to calculate the NPV and rate of return, the following quantitative assumptions
about project benefits would be needed: (i) method for calculating incremental revenue
from freight; (ii) saving in labor cost; and (iii) saving in other operating cost. The PAD
did describe qualitatively that these benefits would be derived from: (i) the additional
revenue that will be realized from additional freight traffic that can be carried as a result
of investments for capacity improvements; (ii) the reduction in labor cost as a result of
investments in heavy infrastructure maintenance of machines and signaling; and (iii) the
reduction in other transport costs from modernization and rehabilitation of motive power
and rolling stock. However, it was unclear how the benefits were actually calculated from
these definitions. The original records about the quantitative benefit assumptions could


                                                              28
not be found by the ICR team. It was also difficult to detect a pattern or a formula in the
forecast benefits as they did not seem to vary with expected traffic volumes or pace of
labor reduction. Instead, the original analysis held the benefits constant for most years
during project implementation (Table 7).

                          Table 7: Original Project Financial Appraisal in PAD

                                    2005     2006     2007     2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014
Costs (EUR m)
  Project investment                  0.6      7.8      5.3      1.2     0.2     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
  Interest and other charges          0.0      0.2      0.5      0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6     0.5     0.5     0.4
Benefits (EUR m)
 Incremental revenue from freight              1.3      1.1      1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0
 Saving in labor cost                          0.0      1.6      1.6     1.6     1.6     1.6     1.6     1.6     1.6
 Saving in other operating cost       0.0      0.0      0.0      1.2     1.2     1.2     1.2     1.2     1.2     1.2
     Net benefits (EUR m)            (0.6)    (6.6)    (3.1)     1.9     3.0     3.2     3.2     3.2     3.3     3.3

NPV (EUR m)                           1.5
Financial IRR                        16%


Data discrepancies. Numerous problems with financial and operational data complicated
the preparation of this economic and financial analysis. Some data provided by the client
differed from earlier or audited financial statements. Certain project indicators were
recorded differently from the original definitions given in the PAD. For example, the last
ISR used a working ratio definition for the first PDO indicator which is different from the
baseline definition in the PAD. MR-I working ratio is reported with subsidy whereas
originally it was without. This new definition is used for both the first PDO indicator and
the last intermediate results indicator. Also in that ISR the MR-T working ratio in 2010 is
reported as 86 percent, although MR-T provided separate data indicating that it is 109
percent. The latter figure is more plausible when checked against audited financial
statements. It is indicated in the April 2011 ISR comments that the original definition for
the first PDO indicator is not valid anymore. However, a formal change to the indicator
has not been documented. ISRs since 2008 have used a labor productivity definition for
the second PDO indicator which is different from the baseline definition in the PAD. The
ISR presents labor productivity using only MR-T staff, whereas the baseline indicator
used a combined MR-T and MR-I staff number.

On some occasions, conclusions were drawn in Aide-Memoires and Implementation
Status Reports based on the inadequate data which may have also biased the project
rating upwards. A recommendation for future projects would be to pay special attention
to consistent interpretation and recording of project indicators even when team
composition changes. During project preparation, the team should be highly encouraged
to clearly document the steps behind NPV and IRR calculations.




                                                        29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                 Responsibility/
         Names                       Title              Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Coral Daphne M. Bird     Program Assistant               ECSSD
Zarko Bogoev             Operations Officer              ECSS2
Yash Pal Kedia           Consultant                      SASDT
Olivier P. Le Ber        Lead Transport Specialist       ECSSD   TTL
Sunja Kim                Consultant                      ECSPE
Lorraine McCann Kosinski Temporary                       ECSSD
Luisa Velardi            Consultant                      AFTTR
Supervision/ICR
Coral Daphne M. Bird     Temporary                       ECSSD
Zarko Bogoev             Operations Officer              ECSS2
Aleksandar Crnomarkovic Financial Management Specialist ECSO3
Agnieszka Grudzinska     Consultant                      EASPR   TTL
Paulus A. Guitink        Sr Transport. Spec.             ECSSD   TTL
Bekim Imeri              Social Scientist                ECSS4
Yash Pal Kedia           Consultant                      SASDT
Marie Antoinette Laygo Program Assistant                 ECSSD
Olivier P. Le Ber        Lead Transport Specialist       MNSTR   TTL
Stephen Muzira           Young Professional               YPP
Vasile Olievschi         Sr Railway Specialist           ECSS5
Andreas Schliessler      Senior Transport Economist      ECSS5   TTL
Liljana Sekerinska       Transport Specialist            ECSS5
George Banjo             Sr. Transport Specialist        ECSS5   TTL
Arman Vatyan             Financial Management Specialist ECSO3
Ireneusz Smolewski       Procurement Specialist          ECSO3
Raul Vinyes Raso         Junior Professional Associate   ECSS5
Sunja Kim                 Financial Analyst, Consultant  ECSS5




                                      30
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                      25                       158.46
  FY05                                      22                       161.89
  FY06                                       4                        25.48
  FY07                                       9                        41.66
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            60                       387.49
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 1.85
  FY06                                    19                          94.66
  FY07                                    30                          95.67
  FY08                                    28                          99.13
  FY09                                    28                          97.13
  FY10                                    29                         107.8
  FY11                                    30                         113.18
  FY12                                     5                          12.27
                          Total:         168                         621.69




                                       31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                      32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

NA




                                   33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The objective of the Railway Reform Project was to improve the financial viability,
productivity, and effectiveness of railway operations. This was planned to be achieved
through labor rationalization, separation of infrastructure from operations, increasing
accountability for performance of the separated entities, introducing competition in rail
operations, and restructuring and rationalization of passenger services.

The Loan became effective when the operational manual was approved by the Managing
Board of the implementing entity, satisfactory to the Bank, and the contract with the
auditor for the project entity was signed. MR was restructured and separated into two
separate legal entities. Then the amended and Restated Loan Agreement – PE MR
Infrastructure-Skopje and the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement – MR Transport
JSC-Skopje were signed on 21.02.2008.

Component 1 under the Project comprised of four studies:

Staffing and cost reduction study. The Contract was signed on July 27, 2007 between
SYSTRA and the PE MR-C.O. Skopje and then, following the separation of the
enterprise into two entities, two additional amendments were concluded and respectively
signed by both entities. The total sum of the Contract, Euro 175,000, was divided equally
between the two entities. The Consultant delivered the Final Report which was approved
by the Committee of Technical Experts (CTE) whose members were appointed by the
Decision of the Prime Minister of FYR Macedonia. The study was adopted by a Decision
from the Government of the FYR Macedonia.

In order to quickly reduce its costs, MR-T has to improve its efficiency. A small group of
people (between 20 and 50 people) are planned to be retrained to prepare for the deficit of
staff starting from 2020. After 2020, external staff will have to be hired. Overall, MR-T is
in a bad financial situation, aggravated by the world crisis and the recent decrease in the
traffic. According to the Government assumptions, the light increase in the traffic
expected from 2011 will not be sufficient for the MR-T to reach the threshold of
profitability. Only corridor VIII and expected gains from its traffic would allow MR-T to
make profit.

For the MR-I, with the implementation of a new Remote Control Command Centre, it
will be possible to significantly reduce the staff of the stations as there will be no more
movement inspector, no more points-men or block post keepers, and fewer shunting
workers. Big stations like Skopje and Veles can be remote-controlled, but will always
need people for operations. It is the same case for the border stations Tabanovci and
Gevgelija. The study results show that from 432 people employed in 2008, the local
operations staff may be reduced to at least 243 in 2019 (after opening Corridor VIII and
corresponding extension of the Trubarevo’s CTC, with creation of positions for 55
managers, dispatchers and technicians in the CTC). The rough estimates indicate that in
2018 there should be around 220 people working for operations, including 25 new people
to run the CTC on Corridor X, and their local managers (30 persons in the total from



                                            34
2010 to 2018). After 2018, with the opening of Corridor VIII, 22 more people will be
needed in the extended CTC, and some for some other jobs along the Corridor. With the
implementation of the GSMR, ATP (ERTMS level 1 and then level 2), it will be possible
to organize the remote operation (―one-man running‖) of the both corridors. This
modernization of the Infrastructure installations will create efficiencies for the
Transportation Entity (or entities), allowing MR-I to consider the possibility of increasing
the track access charges. The investments in modernization of the tracks, the level
crossings, and of the signalling, especially for the single track lines, with crossing points
and stations, would permit an increase in the speed (at least in the average commercial
speed, and also would reduce some sections with speed limits). The maintenance team in
the telecom field is not very large and it will be difficult to reduce the staff even using
new technologies. In that case the qualification of maintenance staff will have to improve
a lot. The Annual Work Plan for maintenance activities will be defined to take into
account the requirements of the new equipment, and the actual staff (five people) should
adapt to the new situation when two additional sub/stations and four sectioning posts will
be installed.

Taking into account the fact that there is no outsourcing company, and that the staff
ensure round-the-clock presence at the maintenance office, the actual total staff of 50
people looks reasonable taking into account the lack of mechanization. With more
mechanization, as it is foreseen, it could be possible to reduce the staff to 40 people,
which means having a ratio of 8 km of catenaries per one worker (actual ratio of catenary
staff is 316 km of single catenary length per 50 people, which means 6,3 km per one
person). According to a ratio similar to the one for Corridor X, with a modern
mechanization, we can expect to hire 42 persons for the maintenance of the catenary of
the Corridor VIII. All these jobs will be created for the opening of Corridor VIII
(expected in 2017 to 2019 for eastern section, and between 2020 and 2025 for the western
section).

It is essential to have railway personnel and managers with specific railway knowledge.
At present the level of railway knowledge among staff is high, and it will be important to
maintain this asset in the future. At the same time, it is necessary to adapt the staffing
needs to implementation of activities on each corridor. After complete renewal of
Corridor X and opening of the new corridor VIII, 6 workers would compose a permanent
gang team to maintain a 60 km long line section. On the remaining network, a crew of 9
workers would maintain 60 km of modernized line (all lines excluding corridors X and
VIII). This calculation does not include the management, and, for each track gang, some
part of the existing management will remain in place. Regarding corridor X and VIII,
when complete section is renewed, we can forecast that Tabanovci - Gevgelija line
maintenance budget might be 80 percent lower during the period of 15 years after
renewal. Then it may increase slowly. The track would stay at the same quality level of
performance during this process.

Potential staff reductions will be linked to the modernization of the network
characteristics and taking into account the impacts of the retirement plans for both
railway entities.



                                             35
Track access charge study. This study was prepared for the MR-I. The Contract was
signed on June 27, 2007 with SYSTRA in the amount of Euro 150,000, and an
Amendment to it was signed in September 2007 to reflect the changed name for the entity
after separation. The assignment was completed. The FYR Macedonian railway network
is currently composed of four main lines, with a total of 699 km of single track lines; it
includes three parts of international corridors (corridor X from Salzburg to Thessaloniki,
Corridor Xd that is an alternative to corridor X, and Corridor VIII from Albania to
Bulgaria that is not yet complete). Only corridor X is electrified, and the FYR
Macedonian network suffers from poor level of maintenance due to insufficient budget.
The level of traffic is low overall with about 80 trains running per day on the network
(more than 50 percent of them freight). The Corridor X is the busiest, with around 57
percent of the passenger traffic (in passengers.km) and around 96 percent of the freight
traffic (in tons.km). According to our traffic forecasts based on the last 5 years, passenger
traffic should grow in the next few years according to an average rate of 2.18 percent per
year. Forecasts for freight traffic are more optimistic with an average growth of 4.5
percent per year. With regard to the current levels of occupancy rates and load factors,
the number of extra trains should not rise above five per day before the year 2012. The
capacity analysis of the FYR Macedonian network shows that there is no lack of
capacity, at present and in the near future. The infrastructure investments are necessary
for:

        Ordinary maintenance and renewal, considering the bad condition of tracks and
         equipment;
        New projects that could allow increasing attractiveness of the network and its
         capacity.

The charges are set and collected by the Infrastructure Manager.

The EU Directive defines the different levels of services to which railway undertakings
are entitled on a non-discriminatory basis: the minimum access package and the track
access to services facilities, the additional services, and finally the ancillary services that
may be proposed by the Infrastructure Manager. Furthermore, additions or deductions
can be made to reflect the objectives of Government and the Infrastructure Manager, such
as scarcity, investments, environmental aspects, mark-ups, use of the averaging approach,
reservation fees, performance of traffic, and discounts for some activities. All information
was published in the Network Statement prepared by the MR-I. Interested parties shall
visit the web site of the MR-I to see the Network Statement.

The SYSTRA model provided two different methods for the calculations (CF- and CM+).
The Track access charges (TAC) based on a level that allows covering the difference
between the State contribution and the financial cost is called CF-. Under CM+ (1a)
method, TAC is based on marginal cost associated with mark-ups. The (1b) method is
based on the 100 percent cost recovery of infrastructure costs. At the regional level, the
countries crossed by the corridor X agreed to use the model calculation CM+. By this




                                              36
agreement, the TAC will stay similar and will be calculated on the same basis for all
interested railway undertakings which are using corridor X for transport purposes.

The recommendations of the study were adopted by a Decision by the Government of
FYR Macedonia.

PSO study. This study was prepared for the MR-T. The Contract in the amount of Euro
150,000 was signed by the MR and was later amended to refer to the MR-T (dated
25.09.2007).

The Track Access Charge study and the PSO study were presented to a wider audience
through a workshop which was held in Skopje on April 2 and 3, 2008, with participation
of about 70 people. The studies proposed methodologies and included the EXCEL-based
models for the calculation of track access charges and PSO compensation payments,
which were compliant with the EU regulations. Furthermore, both studies improved the
commercial approach for the railway activities and for setting up the transparent
relationship between the State and the two railway entities.

The recommendations of the PSO study were adopted by a Decision by the Government.

With the entry into force of the Law on Railway System, the public passenger services
shall be performed by the MR-T until its privatization and/or liberalization of railway
transport. The law removes obstacles to the introduction of the PSO. The Government
has committed to provide an amount for the PSO in the state budget for the current and
the following three years. The transfers of the funds will be made against a signed
contract between the Director General of the MR-T and the Minister of Transport and
Communications. The quality of services provided to the passengers is closely monitored
by the Agency for regulating the railway sector.

Privatization Study for the MR-T. This study was cancelled. The government decided
to postpone this activity and will make a decision about the next steps of the rail reform.

Project Entity Financial Audits. Ernst & Young was selected to do the financial audits.
The services were performed during the period commencing March 2007 and continuing
through 2010, and a period subsequently agreed by the parties in writing. The audit report
for the first 7 months 2007 was prepared for a monolithic entity MR and then separately
for MR-I and MR-T.

Training seminars. In December 2007, a procurement workshop was conducted in
Saraevo. Four members of PIU from the MR-I, two members of PIU from the MR-T and
the director of the Project were approved by the Bank to attend the training. A few more
trainings on procurements of goods and consulting services were provided later in Sofia
(Bulgaria) and Skopje.

Social mitigation




                                            37
The former railway entity had retrenched 763 staff. This component, as negotiated,
should have had the support of the Skopje Labor Bureau (SLB) for providing the social,
psychological and financial counseling to the willing staff, one- to- one consultation with
the retrenched staff to determine the most appropriate training needs for the staff and
facilitating actual staff training by providing a voucher to every inquiring retrenched staff
to be used for training of his/her choice in selected institutions. Unfortunately, the
component was implemented differently. At the beginning of the project, the operational
manual, which explicitly clarified the tasks between the railway entity and SLB, was
changed to reflect the restrictions of the national laws. The component was changed to
respond to the needs of both companies in a way to provide social mitigation for the
retrenched workers or their family members. Once again the MR-T and MR-I conducted
one-on-one interviews with the retrenched employees of the former railway company,
Makedonski Zeleznici. The human resource department of MR-I contacted 289 former
employees of which 183 responded to the proposal to have interview concerning training
needs. As a result, 58 retrenched employees selected training courses, and 10 other
selected the option to receive one-year tuition for one child in the university. MR-T
interviewed 108 former employees, of which 33 persons accepted the offer for training
courses. Selected vendors provided the training.

The FYR Macedonia’s railway reform began with the transposition of the EU directives
into the national legislation and will gradually continue to enable the railway entities
become part of the EU railway system.

Component 3 was prepared for the needs of MR-T. The procurement of the freight flat
wagons was completed with a slight delay, but went very well and the MR-T is satisfied.
The procured rolling stock are running on the track and making profit for the company.
The MR-T will need more loans for procurement of rolling stock required for passenger
transport.

Legal and institutional framework for railways reform is finalized and will be further
amended as needed. In this regard, the railway entities are obliged to prepare and adopt a
3-year Business Plan in accordance with law. This is already done. A Multi-annual
contract between the Infrastructure manager, MTC and MoF is prepared and shall be
signed next month in April, 2011.

Component 4 was entirely tailored for the needs of the MR-I, when the former company
still existed. Through the procurement of light machines and heavy machines as well, the
MR-I improved its railway infrastructure maintenance needed for the robust and safe
traffic performance. In the future, the maintenance should be managed with gradually
limited staff, and contracting big maintenance works to the private sector.

Sub-components of the component 4 were implemented according to the time plan and to
the expectations of the MR-I.

1.     The rails were purchased by the railways as planned in the initial procurement
plan. The procurement was within the limit of the planned budget and it was successfully



                                             38
realized. The goal of the procurement was to purchase rails in quantity needed for the
immediate intervention on the tracks in FYR Macedonia. Purchased amount of rails was
installed on tracks in FYR Macedonia and with it, the goal for intervention on the critical
parts was reached.

2.       Procurement of the sleepers was also within the planned budget. Budget was not
enough to completely cover all of the needs. Purchased quantity was installed at the
critical parts of the tracks and the goal for resolving immediate needs was reached. The
plans include procurement of additional sleepers from own finances to resolve the
problems at critical sections and reconstruct all sections with complete replacement of the
tracks.

3.     Sleepers replacement machine was one of the machines needed for track
maintenance. It enables automation and replacement of workers in sleeper replacement
process. Goal set for this procurement was reached. The machine allowed to decrease
maintenance time, increasing of rationality and working force economy.

4.      Digger/loader was a machine purchased as a part of component 4. It replaced
workers in maintenance department, in cuts and filling of different type of ditches,
sleeper replacement in combination with sleeper changing machine and other earth works.
This is a very useful and efficient machine that completely proved its worth.

5.     Procurement of the light machines was done because of the amortization of the
old equipment and the lack of this type of mechanization. Purchased amount partially
solved this problem, and the rest is covered with own finances. Utilization of the
equipment is complete, and it is used for track maintenance. It enabled workers to have
appropriate modern tools, and its usage helped to increase effectiveness of the
maintenance department, and to provide a higher level of track maintenance.

6.     Re-ballasting machine was also a part of the plan to upgrade the level of
maintenance. The machine has been in use all the time. The aim was to replace large
number of workers in this type of operations. Expectations have been reached and
operational results were excellent.

7.      HY rail vehicles are combined vehicles for transportation of workers and
materials on the railways. They provide better mobility of the workers, faster reaction
with maintenance, and better access to difficult unapproachable places on the railway line.
These vehicles are maximally used by the teams for track and installation maintenance.
Upgrading one of these vehicles with instrument (cobra) for maintenance of high voltage
installations solved one more maintenance problem, and this operation has been
modernized, made faster and rationalized. It is important to mention that at the same time
the safety of the track maintenance workers was improved.

8.     Lubricants and tools are necessities for the track maintenance personnel.
Procurement of these tools allowed achieving the goal to equip every employee with




                                            39
tools. HU vehicles have track maintenance function and, in addition, they were upgraded
with lubricators to lubricate rails on the critical spots.

9.      TMD for catenary services is a machine for catenary maintenance. Procurement
of new TMD raised quality and increased maintenance time. Multi-functionality of this
machine enables maximum performance on the track. Until now the machine has
contributed to upgrading of the catenary level of maintenance, upgrading of the level of
training of the workers, improving response to the emergencies on the network and
planning of the future activities. There are plans to procure one more machine of this type.

10.    Old and unsecured fleet of service vehicles for maintenance personnel was
completely replaced with the new service vehicles, which led to decreased costs of
interventions, increased efficiency and abolished the need in maintenance of old vehicles.

11.     The IT equipment for PIU was procured to allow managing the entire
implementation process of the project and provide better IT equipment for the future use
in the sector of investments and maintenance.

12.     CTC system. The procurement of this system was part of the project’s
modernization of the interlocking and telecommunication systems of the railways. CTC
system upgraded the existent interlocking system on higher level resulting in increase in
the traffic safety on Corridor X and increase of the traffic flow on the track. Installation
of this system rationalized and eliminated human factor in managing the traffic, lowered
expenses on labor, prepared interlocking systems for its future upgrading to improve MR-
I interoperability. The plan for the future is to upgrade this system to ETCS level1 I
GSM-R.

13.     RIMS – information system for track and object maintenance. Combined with
screening of the track parameters, it establishes complex information system. The
populated database allows for planning analysis, decreases maintenance costs, increases
safety, rationalizes number of workers needed for some interventions, plans maintenance
costs, increases maintenance level and helps to improve professionalism of the
maintenance personnel.

14.     Videowall was procured with savings from other procurements. This system
provides an upgrade to the CTC in the visualization part of the whole section that is
controlled and managed by CTC system. It decreases the time for reaction by dispatching
operators for interventions on particular sections, which results in savings on traffic
operations.


Key objectives of the project are completely fulfilled. Basic goal, the railways reform, is
reached; even though this is a process that still goes on. Operational level of track and
object maintenance is significantly higher. Workers skills have been improved. The
technological level has improved, working expenses decreased, and traffic safety has
improved. The new systems and machines enable the company to develop further. Final



                                            40
goal is to reach interoperability of Corridor X. This would allow for complete
liberalization of the traffic market, and would make the railway infrastructure in FYR
Macedonia open for the operators.


Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                         41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33086R1
                                                                                                                                                                            DENMARK 10° SWEDEN                                 20°                            RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Baltic                                    FED.
                                                            FYR MACEDONIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LITHUANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FED.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BELARUS


                                                   RAILWAYS PROJECT                                                                                                    NETH.



                                                                                                                                                                      50°
                                                                                                                                                                                   GERMANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          POLAND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50°
                                                                                                                                                                            LUX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CZECH                                           UKRAINE




                                                                                                                                                                       FRANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         REP.
                          SINGLE TRACK LINE - ELECTRIFIED                                             TOWNS                                                                                                                    AK REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OV
                          SINGLE TRACK LINE - NOT ELECTRIFIED                                                                                                                                                              SL
                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                      MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                                                                          SWITZ.                 AUSTRIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HUNGARY
                          SEETO RAIL CORRIDORS                                                        RIVERS                                                                                       SLOVENIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ROMANIA
                          RAILROADS                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                CROATIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BOSNIA AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                          PLANNED RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                           HERZEGOVINA SERBIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                   dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ia
                                                                                         0          10          20         30          40          50




                                                                                                                                                                                                        ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Black




                                                                                                                                                                                                        c
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Se                           KOSOVO
                          MAJOR ROADS                                                                                                                                                      ITALY                  a                             BULGARIA           Sea

                                                                                                               KILOMETERS                                                                                 MONTENEGRO
                          SECONDARY ROADS                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FYR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MACEDONIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ALBANIA
                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                 40°                                                                                         40°
                                                                                                                                                                                      Tyrrhenian                                      Area of
                                                                                 on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                    map         Aegean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30°
                                                                                                                                                                                         Sea
                                                                                 judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                 GREECE        Sea       TURKEY
                                                                                 acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                 10°                                            20°



                                                            23°           ˇ
                                                                       Pristina                                                              22°                                                                                                            21°


                                                                                                                          Vranje                                                                              BULGARIA




                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                            av
                                                                                                                                            or
                                                                                                                                                   SERBIA




                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                   ˇn


                                                                                                          va
                                                                                                                                   z
                                                                                                                                 Ju
                                                                                                      Mora
                                                                            Gnjilane
                              KOSOVO                                                                                      Bujanovac
                                                                                                    cka
       B e li




                                                                                                    ˇ
                                                                                             Bina
                                                              ˇ
                                                           Urosevac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bobovdol
                Dr
                     im
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Stanke
                                                                                                                                                              Kriva                                                        Kyustendil                Dimitrov
                                           Prizren                                                                                                           Palanka                                                                                  St
                                                                                                                                                                                             Gjuesevo                                                    ru
                                                                                               X                                                                                                                                                            ma
                                                                                                                       Kumanovo
                                                                                                                                                              VIII
                                                                                              VIII                                          Beljakovce

                                                  Tetovo                                                                                                                                                                                              Blagoev-
42°                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Delcevo                      grad
                                                                           SKOPJE
                                                                                                                                                                       ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                     Kocani
                                                                                                                                             Sv. Nikole                                              Vinica
                                                            ar
                                                           rd




                                           Gostivar
                                                        Va




                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                              ˇ
                                                                                                                                                              Stip
                                                                                                               Veles                                                                                                                               Berovo
Peshkopi
Dr
  in




                          R a d ik a
      iZ




                                                                                                                                             Va r                       Radovis
                                                VIII
       i




                                                                                                                                                  d   ar
                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                              ˇ
                                                            Kicevo
                 Debar                                                                                                                 Negotino
                                                                                                                                                                Demir
                                                                                                                                                                                             Strumica
                 Cr




                                                                                                                                                                Kapija
                     ni




                                                                                                                                                 Kavadarci
                          Dr
                          in




                                                                                                     Prilep                                                                                                  Valandovo
                                                           Sopotnica                                                           Re ka
                                                Botun                                                                     na                                                                                           Dojran
                                                                                                                     Cr
                     Struga                                                                   Xd
                                                                                                                                                                            Gevgelija
                                       Lake     Ohrid
                                                                                                                                                                                             A x ió s




       Cafasan                                      Resen
                                        Ohrid
                Prenjas
                                                                        Bitola
41°                                                                                                                                                                              Políkastron                                                                      41°
                                                           Lake
                                                            Prespa
           Pogradec
                                                                                                                                                                        G              R           E                  E        C           E

                                                                                                                                                                                       Yiannitsá
A L B A N I A                                                                Flórina
                                                                                                                                             Edhessa


                                                            23°                                                  Amindaion                   22°                                                                                                            21°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOVEMBER 2011
