FYR Macedonia: Deepening the Reform Agenda
                                                                                                        94116
                                                                                                        April 17, 2012




 Improving the Operational Effectiveness of the Country’s Railways


Synopsis
The Former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) of Macedonia is located on one of the most important
European international routes - Corridor X - which links Europe with Greece, Turkey, and
Central Asia. The efficient and effective operation of the regional road and railway links is
important to the country’s growth potential. Through the Railways Reforms Project, the
previously inefficient and nonprofitable state-owned enterprise has been transformed into two
more accountable and transparent companies that are increasingly adopting a commercial
approach to their operations as they implement new business plans.




Challenge                                                MULTIMEDIA
In the mid-1990s, Macedonian Railways was
one of the largest loss-making public sector
enterprises in the country. Total debt at the end
of 2004 was €143 million (3.3 percent of GDP);
its operational performance had been declining
since 1993 and the sector was increasingly
unable to pay staff salaries. It was estimated
that without radical reforms, operating losses
over a decade would cost the government €100
million.

Approach                                                MORE

In June 2006, the FYR Macedonian Government              Slideshow:  Reforming the Rails in FYR
                                                         Macedonia
and the World Bank signed the €15 million
Railways Reform Project to improve the financial
viability, productivity, and effectiveness of railway
operations. The project balanced investment components in             More Results
track machinery and rolling stock with institutional and
organizational reforms. In this way, it helped to progressively
transform the single Macedonia railways into two new
market-oriented companies, and set up the regulatory
                                                                     MORE INFORMATION
framework for other operators to use the railway
infrastructure. The reform was meant to lead to more                  Railways Reform Project
accountable and commercially oriented management. Labor               (September 15, 2005 – April 30,
                                                                      2011)
restructuring, streamlined operational and financial
performance, and targeted investments were intended to                Railways Reforms – Press
show an improvement in the railway’s performance as a                    release.
commercial enterprise.                                                   Track Renewal Study

                                                                         The World Bank in FYR
Results                                                                  Macedonia
Although major challenges remain, good progress was made                 Country Program Snapshot
in implementing important components of the railways reform              RESULTS: Reforming the Rails
process:                                                                 in FYR Macedonia

     i. The former Macedonian Railways has been divided into a
        Rail Infrastructure Company (MR-I) and a Rail Transport
        Joint Stock Company (MR-T).                                      
    ii. A number of new laws have been adopted in conformity
        with the aquis communautaire (Railway Law, Transport Safety, Contracts for Carriage by Rail,
        Transport of Dangerous Goods, Railway Agency, etc.) and an independent Regulatory Body and
        Safety Agency established.
   iii. The operating capacity of the MR-T increased from 2 to 3 million tons between 2004 and 2010.
        The downward trend in passenger traffic was successfully reversed, with an increase of 64
        percent between 2004 and 2009. The government has adopted the Public Service Contract
        concept as a basis for paying MR-T for passenger transport services operated at government
        request.
   iv. Through investments in track maintenance, track sections with speed restrictions have
        decreased from about 30 percent of total track length in 2004 to roughly 10 percent in 2011. The
        above results are part of a complex reform process aimed at establishing a sustainable railway
        system in Macedonia that is part of a pan-European railway system. The government is to be
        congratulated for these achievements and is now expanding the reforms in order to fully realize
        their benefits and ensure that they are maintained.

Bank Contribution
Bank-financed projects supported various studies and interventions between 2003 and 2005
that helped the government gain real understanding of the structural problems facing the
railways. Consensus on the findings led to (i) an agreement on the need to restructure the
railways and (ii) the government’s adoption of the Railway Law in 2005, whose implementation
was supported by the project. Total project cost was US$19.9 million, of which $19.4 was
provided by the IBRD (€15 million equivalent) and $0.5 was contributed by the government in
counterpart funding.

Partners
Consensus on the needed reforms was made possible by a collaboration between the Bank,
the European Union (EU), which aimed to link the Macedonia railway system to the rest of
Europe’s railways and organize it in line with its aquis communautaire, and the government
which had an active policy for EU accession. The European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD) has agreed to assist the government with the modernization of sections
of railway corridor X.

Moving Forward
To deepen the reform process, the World Bank and the government have agreed on a detailed
set of actions that are now being implemented. The successful completion of these actions
should result in a financially viable railway transportation system able to compete for a fair
share of available traffic.

Beneficiaries
According to Milan Jankulovski, head of the Macedonian Railways electro-installation
department and part of the team that negotiated and signed the project with the Bank in 2005,
“Times were difficult, and the stakes high. It was a time for tough decisions. We knew we had
to reform in order to survive, and we knew it was not going to be easy. We had to be part of
the complex reform process, changing both the legal and institutional framework in order to
create a railway system that is linked to the rest of Europe’s railways.” 
 
