                                                                                                                  95238
                                                                                                             June 10, 2010
Macedonian Railways: Deepening the Reform Agenda




 RAILROADS

 Macedonian Railways: Deepening the Reform Agenda




Overview
Former Yugoslav Republic (FYR) of Macedonia's strategic location puts it on one of the most
important European international routes — Corridor X — which links Europe with Greece,
Turkey, and Central moll
                     Asia. Efficient and effective operation of the roads and railways which link
FYR Macedonia to the rest of the region has become increasingly important to realizing the
country's growth potential. FYR Macedonia joined the World Bank in 1994. Since then, the
World Bank has supported the country with more than € 818.9 million in its transition to a
market economy and in building effective institutions, improving education, social protection
and pensions, building and rehabilitating basic transport and energy infrastructure, and
preserving its natural and cultural heritage. In the rail sector, various studies and interventions
have been undertaken under Bank-financed projects

   Railways Reform Project - Loans & Credits, September 2005


Challenge
Macedonian Railways, which operates the country’s railways,
                                                                         More Results
was in the mid-1990s one of the largest loss-making
companies among Macedonia’s public sector enterprises.

                                                                         100
Total debt at the end of year 2004 was €143 million (3.3
percent of GDP) with its operational performance declining
since 1993 and unable to pay staff salaries. It was estimated
that if the railway did not radically reform its institutional and       It was estimated that if the
                                                                         railway did not radically reform
operational practices, far beyond what was required by EU                its institutional and operational
Directives, the cost to the government would increase by                 practices the cost to the
                                                                         government would increase by
another €100 million to cover operating losses over a                    100 million euros.
decade. It was against this background that the Government
decided to partner with the World Bank to undertake needed
reforms of the railway so that it could contribute to creating
an efficient transport sector that contributes to economic               MORE INFORMATION
growth.                                                                   Corridor X Highway Project



Approach                                                                 MATERIALS
In June 2006, the Government and the World Bank signed                    Project and Operations
the Railway Reform Project aiming to improve the financial
viability, productivity, and effectiveness of railway operations.
The Project balanced investment components in track
                                                                         PARTNERS
machinery and rolling stock with institutional and
organizational reform actions. In this way, it helped to                  Macedonian Railways
progressively transform the single Macedonia railways into
two new market oriented companies, set up the conditions
for use of the railway infrastructure by other operators, and         
established the regulatory framework for a multiple operator
market. The reform was meant to lead to more accountable
and commercially oriented management. Labor restructuring, streamlined operational and
financial performance, and targeted investments, were expected to show an improvement in
railway performance on the market.


Results
Although major challenges are still present and the restructuring of the railway system is not
finished yet, the Government of Macedonia has made good progress in implementing important
components of its Railway Reform process:

      A number of new Laws have been adopted in conformity with the Aquis Communautaire
      (Railway Law, Transport Safety, Contracts for carriage by rail, Transport of dangerous
      goods, Railway Agency, etc.)

      The former Macedonian Railways have been separated into a Rail Infrastructure
      Company (MR-I) and a Rail Transport Joint Stock Company (MR-T).

      The railway infrastructure was opened for use by more operators and Track Access
      Charges have been formally introduced.

      The Public Service Contract concept has been adopted for the passenger transport
      services.

      The infrastructure manager has published the Network Statement describing the
      transport services available, the characteristics of the railway network, the level of track
      access charge, and the conditions for contracting transport services on railway
      infrastructure

      The process for establishing an independent Regulatory Agency for rail services has
      begun.

All the above actions are part of a complex reform process aimed at implementing the legal
and institutional framework for creating a sustainable railway system in Macedonia that is
consistent with EU recommendations. The Government is to be congratulated for these
achievements and now need to deepen the reforms in order to fully realize benefits of the
reform and guide the successes against reversal.

Toward the Future
To continue and deepen the reform process, the World Bank has agreed with the Government
a detailed set of actions which it is now implementing. This and implementation of the
proposed modernization of sections of Corridor X, , based on the results of the study financed
under the Railway Reform project will greatly assist the Government of Macedonia to establish
a financially viable railway transportation system and to speed-up the process of closing the
negotiations with the European Commission concerning railway transportation.




                                                    Last updated: 2010-06-10
