                                                                                                              99827




Reforming the Rails in FYR Macedonia
Milan Jankulovski, Head of the Macedonian Railway's electro-
installation department, has seen the Macedonian Railways
company go through difficult times over the years. At its            Multimedia
lowest point in 2004, the company was €143 million in debt
and unable to pay staff salaries. The future was bleak:
operating losses were predicted to increase by another €100
million over a decade if the railway did not radically reform its
institutional and operational practices, going far beyond what
was required to align with the European Union directives.

"Times were difficult, and the stakes were high. Macedonia is        Reforming the Rails in FYR Macedonia
strategically located on one of the most important European          (Video)
international routes—Corridor 10—which links Europe with
Greece, Turkey, and Central Asia," said Jankulovski. "Efficient
and effective operation of the roads and railways which link
FYR Macedonia to the rest of the region are extremely
important to realizing the country's growth potential."

It was clear that a complete organizational makeover of the
                                                                     Photo Gallery
Macedonian Railways was in order. Against this background
the government decided to partner with the World Bank to
reform its railway system.                                           Related Links

Jankulovski was part of the team that negotiated and signed          Macedonian Railways
the Railways Reform Project with the World Bank in 2005              Ministry of Transport and
which aimed to improve the financial viability, productivity,        Communication
and effectiveness of railway operations. The project balanced
                                                                     World Bank in FYR Macedonia
investment in track machinery and rolling stock with
institutional and organizational reforms. The urgency of the         FYR Macedonia Country Partnership
                                                                     Strategy
reforms required all this to be done in a short time, and
multiple changes had to be tackled simultaneously. The
government, too, needed to overhaul policies and institutions to    better support the railway.

                         As Jankulovski puts it, "It was a time of tough decisions. We knew we had to
                         reform in order to survive, and we knew it was not going to be easy. We had to
                         be part of the complex reform process, changing both the legal and institutional
                         framework in order to create a sustainable railway system that is in line with the
                         EU requirements."

                         These efforts are paying off. Through the project, the railways have procured
                         four shunting, two mainline locomotives, track maintenance machines and rail
Milan Jankulovski, Head  sleepers, and introduced centralized track control systems. These have all
of Electro-installation
Department, Macedonian   contributed to improving their operational capacity and increased safety. Speed
Railways Infrastructure  restrictions on Corridor 10 were reduced from 30 percent to 13 percent.
                         Completion of the delivery of 36 new flatbed wagons and installation of a
railway infrastructure management system will further increase the contribution of the railways to
Macedonia's economic development.

On the institutional side, the formerly monolithic Macedonian Railways has been transformed into two
new market-oriented companies— Rail Infrastructure Company (MR-I) and a Rail Transport Joint Stock
Company (MR-T) and the Rail Transport Joint Stock Company (MR-T). A system of track access
charges for all users of the railway tracks have been introduced. These steps have opened the door for
more operators to use the rails, allowing healthy competition.

On the legislative front, a number of new laws have been adopted, bringing the railways in conformity
with the European Union requirements (Railway Law, Transport Safety, Contracts for Carriage by Rail,
Transport of Dangerous Goods, and Railway Agency).

In order to establish the regulatory framework for a market with more than one operator, Jankulovski’s
infrastructure company published a network statement describing the transport services available, the
characteristics of the railway network, the level of track access charge, and conditions for contracting
transport services.

In essence, the joint effort of the two Macedonian Railways companies, the Ministry of Transport and
Communications, and the World Bank team, has turned the previously inefficient, closed, and non-
profitable state-owned enterprise into companies that are now more accountable and transparent. And
they are increasingly adopting a commercial approach to operations as they implement newly developed
business plans.

The challenge now facing the government and the railway companies is to safeguard and deepen the
reform process. This will require full implementation of the legislative and regulatory framework, and
rehabilitation of critical sections of Corridor 10. Remaining steps are to increase safety and operating
speeds, and for the government to fully compensate rail operators for passenger services they request.
These steps are necessary for a financially viable railway system which is an essential element of the
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's economic and social development as a member of the
European Union.
