,   OFFICIAL
EN)IIMENITS
GRANT NUMBER TF012730
Grant Agreement
(Multi-donor Trust Fund for the Co-financing of Sub-program A(i)
under the Protection of Basic Services Program (Phase II) Project
between
FEDERAL DEMOCRACTIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting as administrator of Multi-donor Trust Fund for the Co-financing of Sub-program
A(i) under the Protection of Basic Services Program (Phase II) Project)
Dated July 23, 2012


﻿GRANT NUMBER TF012730
/Lulti-donor Trust Fund for the Co-financing of Sub-program A(i)
under the Protection of Basic Services Program (Phase II) Project)
GRANT AGREEMENT
1,GREEMENT dated July 23, 2012. entered into between: the FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA ("RECIPIENT"); and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
tiSSOCIATION ("World Bank"), a:ting as an administrator of funds provided by various
Jonors ("Donors") under the Multi-donor Trust Fund for the Co-financing of Sub-program
4(i) under the Protection of Basic Services Program ("Phase II") Project ("PBS Phase II
Project").
\WHEREAS:
(A)    Pursuant to a grant agreement entered into between the Recipient and the
World Bank dated June 19, 2009, (the "Original Grant Agreement") ("Grant No. TF09464 1")
fzr the Co-financing of Sub-program A(i) under PBS Phase II Project, the World Bank granted
Lie Recipient an amount equivalent to four hundred seventy two million two hundred one
thousand five hundred ninety six United Sates Dollars and sixty cents ("472,201,596.60).
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01.  The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds,
dated February 15, 2012, ("Standard Conditions"), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions, the Original Grant
Agreement, or in the Appendix to this Agreement. In case the same term is defined
twice, the definition to this Agreement shall prevail.
Article II
The Project
2.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described in
Schedule I to this Agreement ("Project"). To this end, the Recipient shall carry out
the Project through MOFED in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the
Standard Conditions.


﻿-2-
2.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article III
The Grant
3.01.  The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to sixty
seven million five hundred eighty two thousand six hundred twenty three United
States Dollars ($67,582,623) ("Grant") to assist in financing the Project.
3.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.03.  The Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank
receives periodic contributions from the donor to the trust fund. In accordance with
Section 3.02 of the Standa-d Conditions, the World Bank's payment obligations in
connection with this Agreement are limited to the amount of funds made available
to it by the donors under the abovementioned trust fund, and the Recipient's right to
withdraw the Grant proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds.
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (k) of the
Standard Conditions consists of the following, namely, that a situation has arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
Article V
Recipient's Representative; Addresses
5.01.  The Recipient's Representative is the Minister at the time in charge of finance
and economic developmert.


﻿-3-
5.02.  The Recipient's Address i;;:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
P. O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Telex:              Facsimile:
21147               (251-11) 1551355
5.03. The World Bank's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable:              Te-lex:             Facsimile:
INDEVAS             248423 (MCI) or     202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)


﻿-4-
AGREED at Addis Ababa, Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, as of the
day and year first above written.
FEDERA DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:        AIlMED SHIDE
Title:
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(acting as Administrator of the Multi-donor Trust Fund for the
Co-financing of Sub-program A(i) of the Protection of Basic
Services Program (Phase II) Project)
By
Authorized Representative
Name:        n   4    7,.c


﻿-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Ethiopia PBS Phase II Project supported by the Grant is to
contribute to expanding access and improving the quality of basic services in education,
health, agriculture, water supply and sanitation, and rural roads delivered by sub-national
governments, while continuing to deepen transparency and accountability in service
delivery. The Grant is provided to support the Block Grants under Subprogram A(i) of
the Program.
The Project consists of the following part:
Sub-prozram (A)(i) - Block Grants
Provide financial support to the Regional Governments and Local Authorities
through timely provision of Block Grants, enabling the respective Region and Local
Authority to carry out envisaged activities (as budgeted for recurrent expenditures) for
basic services in the areas of health, education, agriculture, water supply and sanitation,
and rural roads.


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.   Institutional and Other Arrangements
A.     General
1I The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational
Manual throughout the period of implementation of the Project. The Recipient
shall ensure that any amendments and revisions to the Operational Manual that
may be required during the implementation period in order to strengthen the
effectiveness and efficiency of implementation arrangements will be agreed in
writing with the World Bank and Contributing Partners prior to its finalization
and adoption.
2.    In case of conflict between the provisions of the Operational Manual and this
Agreement, the latter shal prevail.
B.     Subprograms A(i) - Block Grants
1 .   At the federal level, the Recipient shall cause MOFED to be responsible for
coordination, monitoring and oversight of the implementation of the Project in
accordance with the PBS Operational Manual. For this purpose, MOFED shall
liaise with Pooled Funding A Partners as required.
MOFED's primary resporsibilities shall include:
(a)    making timely transfers of resources for Subprogram A(i) expenditures
to Regions as per agreed fiscal transfer formulae, ensuring effective
financial management and compliance with fiduciary requirements;
(b)    managing the implementation of various technical assistance and systems
development activities to ensure transparent budget execution, enhanced
fiscal reporting, a-d improved monitoring of key results for the delivery
of basic services;
(c)    coordinating with the Key Line Ministries, their counterpart Regional
sector bureaus and Woreda sector offices, as necessary, for the
implementation of the Project;
(d)    ensuring that Regional sector bureaus and Woreda sector offices
disseminate service facility related information;


﻿-7-
(e)    ensuring effective collaboration and coordination with relevant programs
(e.g. PSCAP); and
(f)    ensuring the time. y execution of annual financial audits.
2.     MOFED's organ at the time responsible for macroeconomic policy and
management will carry out the day-to-day implementation of Program activities,
and report on overall progress with implementation and achievements of the
Project; and support and monitor the procurement activities being undertaken by
other implementing agencies under the Project.
3.     MOFED's organ at the time responsible for central accounts and treasury will
assist in monitoring and tracking financial flows to lower levels of government.
4.     At the Regional level, the Recipient shall cause Bureaus of Finance and
Economic Development to:
(a)    transfer resources for Subprogram A(i) expenditures to Local Authorities
based on agreed r lans for delivery of basic services;
(b)    coordinate Project implementation of Subprograms A(i) and launch start-
up activities;
(c)    mobilize technical assistance from  other line agencies as may be
required;
(d)    in collaboration with regional bureaus of capacity building, coordinate,
manage and monitor the implementation of financial transparency and
accountability activities at regional level;
(e)    review  and consolidate progress reports and provide feedback, as
necessary; and
(f)    monitor and evaluate overall performance and resource use.
5.     At the local level, the Recipient shall cause Woreda Offices of Finance and
Economic Development and Urban Administration Offices of Finance to be
responsible for managing and coordinating the day-to-day implementation of
Project activities. WOFEDs and UAOFs shall undertake operational tasks such as
planning, supervision, financial management, monitoring and evaluation as
described in the PBS Operational Manual. They will also be responsible for
managing and coordinating the day-to-day implementation activities associated
with the financial transparency and accountability initiatives.


﻿-8-
C.     Anti-Corruption
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Fi-ianced by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants",
dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011 ("Anti-Corruption
Guidelines").
D.     Donor Visibility and Visit
1.     The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all such measures as the World
Bank may reasonably request to identify publicly the Donors' support for the
Project.
2.     For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient shall,
upon the World Bank's request, enable the representatives of the Donors to visit
any part of the Recipient's territory for purposes related to the Project.
Section H1.   Proiect Monitorinig, Reporting, Evaluation
A.     Project Reports; Completion Reports
1 .    The Recipient shall monilor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World Bank. Each
Project Report shall cover a period of six (6) months, and shall be furnished to
the World Bank not later than three (3) months after the end of the period
covered by such report.
2.     During Project implementation, the Recipient shall ensure that at least six
JBARs/JRIS are carried out, pursuant to the provisions of the PBS Operational
Manual, with the involvement of Regions and sectors. Unless otherwise agreed
with the World Bank, the JBARs shall be carried out according to the following
schedule:
(i)    First JBAR no later than June 30, 2009.
(ii)   Second JBAR in October/November 2009.
(iii)  Third JBAR in April/May 2010.
(iv)   Fourth JBAR in October/November 2010.
(v)    Fifth JBAR in April/May 2011
(vi)   Sixth JBAR in October/November 2011.
(vii)  Seventh JBAR in April/May 2012; and
(viii)  Eighth JBAR in October/November 2012.


﻿-9-
B.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.
2.     Without limitation to the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall
prepare and furnish to the World Bank: (a) not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each Ethiopian fiscal quarter for the Project, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering such quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the World Bank; (b) not later than ninety (90) days after the end of
each Ethiopian fiscal quarter, quarterly expenditure reports for the Project in
form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.
3.     The Recipient shall have ts Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.0/(b) of Standard Conditions. Each audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one Ethiopian Fiscal Year. The audited
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank
not later than six (6) mont [is after the end of such period.
4.     The Recipient shall also cause OFAG to audit, on a continuous basis, samples of
Regions that have received funds under Subprograms A(i) and of such scope and
detail as shall have been agreed with the World Bank. The Recipient shall cause
OFAG to provide the World Bank with quarterly summaries of these audit
findings, within sixty (60) days of the end of each Ethiopian fiscal quarter.
Section III.  Procurement
A.     General
1. Procurement and Consultant Guidelines. All goods, works, and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred
to in:
(a)    Section I of the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 ("Procurement Guidelines")
in the case of goods, works and non-consulting services, and Sections I
and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 ("Consultant Guidelines") in the case of
consultants' services; and
(b)    the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the
procurement plar, prepared and updated from time to time by the


﻿-10-
Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.18 of the
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines
("Procurement Plan").
2.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II
and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1 .    International and National Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise
provided in paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of International and National Competitive
Bidding. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) shall follow the Recipient's
procurement procedures, subject to the following additional procedures: (i) the
Recipient's standard bid documents for procurement of goods and works shall be
used; (ii) if pre-qualification is used, the World Bank's standard prequalification
document shall be used; (iii) margin of preference shall not be applicable; (iv)
bidders shall be given a minimum of 30 days to submit bids from the date of
availability of the bidding documents; (v) use of merit points for evaluation of
bids shall not be allowed; (vi) foreign bidders shall not be excluded from
participation; and (vii) results of evaluation and award of contract shall be made
public.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International or National
Competitive Bidding, wiich may be used for goods and works. Without
prejudice to the World E ank's Procurement Guidelines, the Procurement Plan
and the PBS Operational Manual shall specify, on a case by case basis, the
circumstances under whic'i such methods may be used:
Procurement Methods
(a)    Limited International Bidding
(b)    Shopping
(c)    Direct Contracting
(d)    Procurem?nt from United Nations Agencies
(e) Community participation
C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1.     Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For the purposes of


﻿-11-
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for
consulting services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, per contract,
may include only consultants from the country of the Recipient.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of proc.irement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Methods
(a)    Least Cost Selection
(b)    Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications
(c)    Single Source Seiection
(d)    Selection ofIndividual Consultants
(e)    Community Partikipation
D.     Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the World Bank.
Section IV.  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A.     General
1. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c)
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Recipient (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects"
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made
applicable to this Agreerr ent pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
Expenditures as set forth i:i the table in paragraph 2 below
2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:


﻿-12-
Aniount of the Grant
Allocated
(expressed in United       % of expenditures
Categories             States Dollars)           to be financed
1   Block Grants under        67,582,623        Such percentage of Eligible
Subprogram A(i)                             Expenditures as the World
Bank may determine for each
six monthly period of the EFY
TOTAL                    67,582,623
B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .    Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made:
(a)    for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(b)    under Category (1), unless the World Bank has confirmed in writing that:
(A) the annual sub-national budget for basic services comprising the
relevant Subprogram A(i) expenditures, satisfactory to the World Bank,
has been delivered to the World Bank; (B) the relevant JBAR and JRIS
have concluded successfully, in the opinion of the World Bank, enabling
a determination of the appropriate percentage of expenditures to be
financed, taking into account the Recipient's performance under the
Project; and (C) satisfactory interim financial reports, prepared for two
successive quarte-s in accordance with the provisions of Original Grant
Agreement, relating to the Subprogram A(i) expenditures for the relevant
Project period, have been delivered to the World Bank.
2.     The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.
Section V. Other Undertakings
1 .    The Recipient shall:
(a)    maintain, or renew, in accordance with the provisions of the Original
Grant Agreement, during the implementation of the Project, all such
additional staff within its agencies, as have been agreed to be recruited in
accordance with the provisions the Original Grant Agreement to be
assigned to support the COPCU and BoFEDs, all with such authority and


﻿-13-
with qualifications and under terms of reference as shall be at all times
satisfactory to the World Bank;
(b)    ensure that the plan for roll-out of the social accountability activities
under the Program will be maintained by the PBS Social Accountability
Steering Committee, and that the corresponding activities are undertaken
in a timely manner;
(c)    by April 30, 2011, carry out a follow-up study to monitor improvements
in financial transparency and accountability, based on the Woreda city
benchmarking survey undertaken on financial transparency and
accountability under the auspices of MCB; and
(d)    by April 30, 2012, carry out under terms of reference satisfactory to the
World Bank, by duly qualified auditors acceptable to the World Bank,
retained in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule
2, an independent procurement audit for all expenditures financed under
the Project, and firmish a report to the World Bank thereon of such scope
and detail as the World Bank shall request.


﻿-14-
APPENDIX
Definitions
1.     "Bureau of Finance anc. Economic Development" or "BOFED" means the
agency established at the Regional level within the administration of the
Regional Government wh Ich has responsibilities under the Project as described in
paragraph 4 of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.     "Contributing Partners" means donor agencies that are providing financial
support to the Program, either through co-financing or directly channeled to the
Recipient.
3.     "COPCU" or "Channel One Programs Coordinating Unit" means the unit in
MOFED which will oversee the implementation of activities to support the
strengthening of Woreda public financial management systems.
4.     "Designated Pooled Account A" means the account to be maintained in the
National Bank of Ethiopia in Dollars to finance activities relating to Subprogram
A(i) into which the Pooled Funding A Partners' funds shall be deposited.
5.     "Ethiopian Fiscal Year" or "EFY" means the Fiscal Year of the Recipient which
commences on July 8 and ends on July 7.
6.     "Federal Government" means the first tier of government in the administrative
system of Recipient established under the Recipient's Federal Constitution of
1995.
7.     "JBARs" or "Joint Budget and Aid Reviews" means the regular semi-annual
reviews jointly carried oul by the Recipient and development partners, on matters
relevant to the coordination of financial assistance for the development of the
Recipient, and to be convened regularly during the implementation of the Project,
as described in paragraph 2 of Section II.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
8.     "JRIS" or "Joint Review and Implementation Supports" means each semi-annual
supervision mission jointly carried out by the Recipient and the Contributing
Partners.
9.     "Key Line Ministries" means the Recipient's Ministries of Education, Health,
Agriculture and Rural Development, Federal Affairs, Transport, and Water
Resources.
10.    "Local Authorities" means the third tier of government in the administrative
system of Recipient established under each Region's constitution and includes
Woredas and Urban Administrations.


﻿-15-
11.    "MCB" means the Recipi,nt's Federal Ministry of Capacity Building.
12.    "MOFED" means the Recipient's Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development which is responsible for certain functions under the Project as
described in paragraph 1(a) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
13.    "MOH" means the Recipient's Federal Ministry of Health.
14.    "OFAG" means the Office of the Federal Auditor General, the constitutionally
mandated financial auditor of the Recipient.
15.    "Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.A. 1 of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank setting
forth details of the procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria required for the
Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the prior written
agreement of the World Bank, and such term includes all schedules and annexes
to such manual.
16.    "Pooled Funding A Partners" means collectively, the World Bank and any other
international development agencies or governments that are pooling at least a
part of their funds for Sutprogram A(i) into Designated Pooled Account A.
17.    "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project,
dated March 31, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18.    "Program" means the Recipient's strategic plan for: (i) the health sector, as set
forth in the Health Sector Development Program dated September 2005 and
covering the period from 2005-06 to 2010-11; (ii) the education sector, as set
forth in the Education Sector Development Program dated August 2005 and
covering the period fron 2005-06 to 2009-10; (iii) the water and sanitation
sector, as set forth in the Water Sector Strategy dated 2001 and Water Sector
Development Program dated 2002 and covering the period from 2002 to 2016;
and (iv) devolution of responsibilities, as set forth in the Fiscal Decentralization
Strategy dated September 2004.
19.    "PSCAP" means the Public Sector Capacity Building Program of the Recipient.
20.    "Regions" means the Recipient's nine states, namely Tigray, Amhara, Oromia,
Southern Nations Nationalities and Peoples, Benishangul-Gumuz, Gambella,
Somali, Afar and Harrari and includes, wherever mentioned in this Agreement
for purposes of this Project, the City Administration of Dire Dawa.


﻿AV
-16-
21.    "Regional Government" means the second tier of government in the
administrative system of the Recipient established under the Recipient's Federal
Constitution of 1995.
22.    "Subprogram A(i)" means an annual program of activities and associated budget
for the Project.
23.    "Urban Administration" means the third tier of government in the Recipient's
administrative system as established under the relevant regional legislation and
having the same status as a Woreda.
24.    "Urban Administration Office of Finance" or "UAOF" means the governmental
agency established at local level in an Urban Administration which has
responsibilities under the Project as described in Section I.B.5 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
25.    "Woreda" means the third tier of government in the Recipient's administrative
system as established under the relevant Regional legislation.
26.    "Woreda Office of Finance and Economic Development" or "WOFED" means
the governmental agency established at local level in a Woreda with
responsibilities under the Project as described in Section I.B.5. of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.


