ET- ~-4L4
IOFFICIAL                                c
DOCUtMENTS                              0)
The World Bank                                     1818 H Street N.W.        (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION              U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
August 9, 2012
Ref: 18B-CD/241/08/09/2012
H. E. Ato Suflan Ahmed
Minister
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Addis Ababa
Re: MDTF Grant No. TY012730 for the Co-financing of Sub-program A (i) under
the Protection of Basic Services Program (Phase II) Project
Additional Instructions: Amendment to Disbursement Letter dated July 23,2012
Dear Ato Sufian,
I refer to the Grant Agreement ("Agreement") between the Federal Democratic Republic of
Ethiopia ("Recipient"), and the International Development Association ("World Bank"), acting as
administrator of grant funds provided by the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) for the above-referenced
Grani dated July 23, 2012. The Agreement provides that the World Bank may issue additional
instrL(Iions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds under Grant No. TF012730 ("Grant"). This letter
constiutes a revision of the original DisbLrsement Letter, dated July 23, 2012, and, together with the
parts ot that Original Disbursement Letter which continue the original instructions intact, constitutes such
addit onal instructions.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter. The
manner in which the provisions in the Dis:ursement Guidelines apply to the Grant is specified below.
Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and subsections in the
Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the capitalized terms used have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used under the
Grant:
*  Reimbursement
*  Direct Payment
*  Special Commitment
*  Advances
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsectlen 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is four (4) months
after the Closing Date specified in the Agreement. Any changes to this date will be notified by the World
Bank.


﻿II. Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
(i)   Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1). A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should be
furnished to the World Bank at the address indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen
signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to s gn Applications:
The World Bank
Africa Avenue
Bole Road
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Attention: Mr. Guang Zhe Chen, Country Director
(it)   Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications for
withdrawal, together with supporting documents, and (b) applications for special commitments, together
with a copy of the commercial bank letter of credit, to the address indicated below:
The World Bank
Africa Avenue
Bole Road
Addis Ababa, Ethicpia
Attention: Mr. Anthony Okwako, Loan Department
Johannesburg, Republic of South Africa
(il)   Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The World Bank may permit the Recipient to
electronically deliver to the World Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the World
Bank's Client Connection, web-based portad. The option to deliver Applications to the World Bank by
electnmic means may be effected if: (a) the Recipient has designated in writing, pursuant to the terms of
subpa-agraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign and deliver Applications and to
receive secure identification devices ("Tokens") from the World Bank for the purpose of delivering such
Apphations by electronic means; and (b) all such officials designated by the Recipient have registered as
users of Client Connection. If the World Bank agrees, the World Bank will provide the Recipient with
Tokers for the designated officials. Following which, the designated officials may deliver Applications
electonically by completing Form 2380, which is accessible through Client Connection
(http,/clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of preparing
and delivering Applications in paper forr.. The World Bank reserves the right and may, in its sole
discr-tion, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of Applications by the Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to Process Applications. By designating officials to
accept Tokens and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Recipient confirms through
the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure
Idennication Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications and
Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens") provided in Attachment 3; and
(b) to deliver the Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to each such official and to cause such official
to abide by those terms and conditions.
(v)   Minimum Value of Applications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications is USD
200,000.
(vi)   Advances (sections 5 and 6)
Type of Designated Account(s) (subsection 5.3): Pooled
* Currency of Designated Account(s) (subsection 5.4): US Dollars


﻿* Financial Institution at which the Designated Account(s) will be opened (subsection 5.5):
National Bank of Ethiopia
* Ceiling (subsection 6.1): forecast for 2 quarters as provided in the quarterly Interim Financial
Report
III. Reporting on Use of Grant Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with each
Application for Withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursement and for reporting eligible expenditures paid from the
Designated Account:
o  Interim unaudited financial report attached to the Implementation Progress Report
(Attachment 4) and;
o   List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior review, in
the form attached (Attachment 5 - Form of Payments Against Contracts Subject to the
World Bank's Prior Review).
* For requests for Direct Payment: Records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies of
receipts, supplier invoices.
(ii) Frequency of Reporing Eligible Expenditures Padfrom the Designated Account (subseedon 6.3): the
period set out in the Grant Agreement for provision of Interim Financial Reports
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the Disbursement
Hancbook available on the World Bank's public website at http://www.worldbank.org and its secure
website "Client Connection" at http://cliertconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon
requez.
If you have not already done so, the World Bank recommends that you register as a user of the
Clier Connection website (http://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website you will be able to
down:oad Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Grant, and retrieve related policy,
financial, and procurement information. All Recipient officials authorized to sign and deliver
Applications by electronic means are required to register with Client Connection before electronic
delivery can be effected. For more information about the website and registration arrangements, please
contact the World Bank by email at <clientconnection@worldbank.org>.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact a Finance Officer at loa-
tf@wiorldbank.org using the above referencs.
Sincerely,
Guang Zhe Chen
Country Director for Ethiopia
Africa Region


﻿All attachments as per the original disbursement letter dated July 23 (below), 2012 remain valid.
1. World Bank Disbursement Guidelines fcr Projects, dated May 1, 2006
. Form for Authorized Signatures
'3. Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices in connection with Use of Electronic
Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated January 20, 2010
1    4. Form of Interim Financial Report
5. Form of Payments Against Contracts Subject to the Association's Prior Review
Prepared by: Joseph P. Formoso, CTRLA
Cleared with and cc:  Marie Roger Augustin, LEGAM
Camilla Homemo, AFTSE
Cc with copies:  Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia


﻿Attachment 2
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
V'inister of Finance
[Street address]
[DATE]
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Attention: Guang Zhe Chen
Country Director
Dear Mr. Chen:
Re: Co-financing of Sub-program A (i) under the Protection of Basic Services
Program (Phase II) PrDject rant for the Preparation of Health Results Based
Financing Project
Grant No. TF012730
I refer to the Grant Agreement ("Agreement") between Government of Ethiopia ("Recipient"), and the
International Development Association ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by
the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Ethiopia (MDTF), for the above-referenced Grant, dated          ,
providing the above Grant. For the purposes of Section 3.04 of the Standard Conditions as defined in the
Agreeament, any '[one] of the persons whose authenticated specimen signatures appear below is
authcrized on behalf of the Recipient to sigr applications for withdrawal under this Grant.
For the purpose of delivering Applications to the World Bank, 2[(each] of the persons whose
auther.ticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the Recipient, acting
3[individually] 4fjointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support thereof on the terms and
conditions specified by the World Bank.
s[This confirms that the Recipient is authorizing such persons to accept Tokens and to deliver the
ApplI cations and supporting documents to the World Bank by electronic means. In full recognition that
Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more 1han one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
positions, and if any thresholds apply. Please de,ete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
2 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more ihan one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please
indicate the actual number. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
3 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not
applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote infinal letter that is sent to the Association.
4 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket cly if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this
is not applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote infinal letter that is sent to the Association.


﻿the World Bank shall rely upon such representations and warranties, including without limitation, the
representations and warranties contained in the Terms and Conditions of Use ofSecure Identification
Devices in connection with Use ofElectronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting
Docum,entation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens"), the Recipient represents and warrants to the
World Bank that it will deliver to each such person a copy of the Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens
and wll cause such persons to abide by thosc terms and conditions.]
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the World Bank
records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position]       Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]       Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]       Specimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed /
Minister of Finance and Economic Development
Instruction to the Recipient: Add this paragraph if the Recipient wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept
Tokersc and to deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please delete the paragraph. Please
delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.


﻿Attachment 3
Terms and Conditions of-Use of Secure Identification Devices
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
January 20, 2010
The World Bank (Bank)6 will provide secure identification devices (Tokens) to permit the Borrower7 to
deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under the Agreement(s) and
supporting documentation (such applications and supporting documentation together referred to in these
Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of
use specified herein.
A.     Identification of Users.
I.     The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter (ASL) duly
delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to deliver Applications.
The Bank will provide Tokens to each person identified in the ASL (Signatory), as provided
below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if a Signatory is no longer
authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2.     Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https//clientconnection.worldbankorg ) prior to delivery of Tokens. Registration on CC will
require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The Signatory shall not reveal
his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC Password in written or other form. Upon
registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be assigned a unique identifying account name.
B.     Distribution, Initialization and Return of Tokens.
1.     The Bank will physically deliver a Token to each Signatory in a manner to be determined by and
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.     At the time of delivery of a Token to a Signatory, the Signatory will receive a copy of these Terms
and Conditions of Use for purposes of initializing the Token.
3.     The Bank will verify that the Token, Temporary Password and Terms and Conditions of Use have
been duly delivered to and received by the CC User.
4.     Promptly upon receipt of the Token and Terms and Conditions of Use, the Signatory will access
CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register his/her Token and set a personal
identification number (PIN) to be used in connection with the use of his/her Token, after which the
Token will be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering
Applications. Upon initialization of the Token, the Signatory will be a "Token User". The Bank
will maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each Token User for purposes of
managing the Token of the Token User. Neither the Borrower nor the Token User will have any
access to the Account.
5.     Prior to first use of the Token by the Token User for delivering Applications, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Token User has received training materials provided by the Bank in use of the
Token.
6 "Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
7"3orrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance
and the recipient of a grant.


﻿6.     Tokens shall be promptly returned to the Bank upon request of the Bank.
C.     Management of Tokens.
1 .    Tokens will remain the property of the Bank.
2.     Use of the Token is strictly limited :o use in the delivery of Applications by the Token User in the
manner prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms and Conditions. Any other
use of the Token is prohibited.
3.     The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the Token by the
Token User, other representatives o--the Borrower, or third parties.
4.     The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such representation
and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in delivery of a Token to each Token User)
that each Token User is provided, understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of
Use, including without limitation the following:
Security
4.1.   The Token User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in
written or other form.
4.2.   The Token User shall not allow anyone else to utilize a Token to deliver an Application
to the Bank.
4.3.   The Token User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to
logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4.   If the Token User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her Token
he/she shall immediately notify clientconnection(worldbank.or.
4.5.   The Borrower shall immeiiately notify the Bank at clientconnection(a@worldbank.or2 of
any lost, stolen or compromised To (ens, and take other reasonable steps to ensure such Tokens are
disabled immediately.
Care of Tokens
4.6.   Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore should be
handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to extreme temperatures,
crushed or bent. Also, Tokens should be kept more than five (5) cm from devices that generate
electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and
other similar devices. Tokens should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At
close range (less than 5 cm), these devices can output high levels of EMR that can interfere with
the proper operation of electronic equipment, including the Token.
4.7    Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical instructions
on the proper use and care Tokens are available at http://www.rsa.com.
5.     Replacement
5.1.   Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Tokens will be
replaced at the expense of the Borrower.
5.2.   The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Token in the case of
misuse, or not to reactivate a Toker User's Account


﻿6. Reservation of Right to disable Token
6.1.   The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a Token User to use a
Token for any reason.
6.2.   The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently disable a
Token, de-activate a Token User's A.ccount or both.


﻿Attachment 4
IFR Template - To Be Provided by FMS


﻿Attachment 5
Payments Made during Reporting Period
Against Contracts Subject to the Bank's Prior Review
2 Page


