The WoRild Bank                                    tr   ffice          Tel. (251-f) 662-77-00
NTERNATICNAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Africa Avenu Bole Road  Fax: (251-1) 662-77-17
INTERNATIC NAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  A..t..'A..      Ethiopia
July 23, 2012
Ref: WB-CD/217/07/23/2012
H. E. Ato Sufian Ahmed
Mini ster
Mini try of Finance and Economic Development
Addis Ababa
Dear Ato Sufian,
Re: MDTF Grant No. TF012730 fbr the Co-financing of Sub-program a (i) under the
Protection of Basic Services Program (Phase II) Project
Additional Instructions: Disbursement
I refer to the Grant Agreement ("Agreement") between the Federal Democratic Republic
of Ethiopia ("Recipient"), and the International Development Association ("World Bank"), acting
as administrator of grant funds provided by the Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) for the above-
referenced Grant of even date, herewith. The Agreement provides that the World Bank may
issue additional instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds under Grant No.
TF01:2730 ("Grant"). This letter ("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time,
conslitutes the additional instructions.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter.
The manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Grant is
specified below. Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and
subsections in the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the
capitalized terms used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Grant:
* Reimbursement
* Direct Payment
* Special Commitment
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is four (4)
months after the Closing Date specified in the Agreement. Any changes to this date will be
notifed by the World Bank.


﻿-2-
II. Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
(i)   Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1). A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2)
should be furnished to the World Bank at the address indicated below providing the name(s) and
specimen signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to sign Applications:
The World Bank
Africa Avenue
Bole Road
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Attention: Mr. Guang Zhe Chen, Country Director
(ii)  Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a)
applications for withdrawal, together with supporting documents, and (b) applications for special
commitments, together with a copy of :he commercial bank letter of credit, to the address
indicated below:
The World Bank
Africa Avenue
Bole Road
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Attention: Mr. Anthony Okwako, Loan Department
Johannesburg, Republic of South Africa
(iii)   Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The World Bank may permit the Recipient to
electronically deliver to the World Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the
World Bank's Client Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the
World Bank by electronic means may be effected if: (a) the Recipient has designated in writing,
pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign
and diver Applications and to receive secure identification devices ("Tokens") from the World
Banb for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such
officials designated by the Recipient have registered as users of Client Connection. If the World
Banlt agrees, the World Bank will provide the Recipient with Tokens for the designated officials.
Follcwing which, the designated officials may deliver Applications electronically by completing
Form 2380, which is accessible through Client Connection (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org).
The Recipient may continue to exercise the option of preparing and delivering Applications in
pape form. The World Bank reserves the right and may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or
permanently disallow the electronic deivery of Applications by the Recipient.
(iv)  Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to Process Applications. By designating
offic'als to accept Tokens and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the
Recipient confirms through the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the
Terms and Conditions of Use ofSecure Identification Devices in connection with Use of
Elecironic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and
Conditions of Use of Tokens") provided in Attachment 3; and (b) to deliver the Terms and
Conditions of Use of Tokens to each such official and to cause such official to abide by those
term; and conditions.
(v) Minimum Value of Applications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications is
USD 200,000.


﻿-3-
(vi)  Advances (sections 5 and 6). For the reason set forth in subsection 5.2 of the
Disbursement Guidelines, the advancing of grant proceeds into a designated account is not a
Disbursement Method currently availanle under this Grant. Please send Applications only in
support of the Disbursement Methods isted in subsection I (i) of this letter.
III. Reporting on Use of Grant Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each Application for Withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursemen!
o  Interim unaudited financial report attached to the Implementation Progress
Report (Attachment 4) and;
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the World Bank's prior
review, in the form attached (Attachment 5 - Form of Payments Against
Contracts Subject to the World Bank's Prior Review).
* For requests for Direct Paymeni: Records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies
of receipts, supplier invoices.
IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement Handbook available on the World Bank's public website at
http://www.worldbank.org and its secure website "Client Connection" at
http://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon request.
If you have not already done so, the World Bank recommends that you register as a user
of the Client Connection website (http://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website you
will be able to download Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Grant, and
retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information. All Recipient officials authorized
to sign and deliver Applications by electronic means are required to register with Client
Connection before electronic delivery can be effected. For more information about the website
and registration arrangements, please contact the World Bank by email at
<clicntconnection@worldbank.org>.
If you have any queries in relat'on to the above, please contact a Finance Officer at loa-
tf@worldbank.org using the above reference.
Sincerely,
Guang Z. Chen
Courtry Director for Ethiopia
Africa Region


﻿-4-
Attachments
1. World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006
V2. Form for Authorized Signatures
V3. 7erms and Conditions of Use of Secvre Identification Devices in connection with Use of Electronic
Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated January 20, 2010
/4. Form of Interim Financial Report
5. Form of Payments Against Contracts Subject to the Association's Prior Review
Cc wi-h copies:  Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia


﻿-5-
Attachment 2
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
Minister of Finance
[Street address]
[DATE]
The World Bank
181; H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Uru ted States of America
Attention: Guang Zhe Chen
Country Director
Dear Mr. Chen:
Re: Co-financing of Sub-program A(i) under the Protection of Basic Services
Program (Phase II) Project rant for the
Preparation of Health Results Based Financing Project
Grant No. TF012730
I refer to the Grant Agreement ("Agreement") between Government of Ethiopia ("Recipient"), and the
International Development Association ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by
the \4 ulti-Donor Trust Fund for Ethiopia (MDTF), for the above-referenced Grant, dated        ,
providing the above Grant. For the purposes of Section 3.04 of the Standard Conditions as defined in the
Agiement, any '[one] of the persons whose authenticated specimen signatures appear below     is
authorized on behalf of the Recipient to sign applications for withdrawal under this Grant.
For the purpose of delivering App*ications to the World Bank, '[each] of the persons whose
authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the Recipient, acting
'[inJividually] 4jointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support thereof on the terms and
conditions specified by the World Bank.
1 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
posit ons, and if any thresholds apply. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
2 Instruction to the Recipient: Stipulate if more than one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please
indicate the actual number. Please delete this fgotnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
3 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not
applizable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.
4 Instruction to the Recipient: Use this bracket only if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this
is not applicable, please delete. Please delete ihis footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.


﻿-6-
'[This confirms that the Recipient is authorizing such persons to accept Tokens and to deliver the
Applications and supporting documents to the World Bank by electronic means. In full recognition that
the World Bank shall rely upon such representations and warranties, including without limitation, the
representations and warranties contained in the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification
Devices in connection with Use ofElectronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting
Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens"), the Recipient represents and warrants to the
World Bank that it will deliver to each such person a copy of the Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens
and will cause such persons to abide by those terms and conditions.]
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the World Bank
records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position]       Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]       Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]       Specimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed /
Minister of Finance and Economic Development
5 Instruction to the Recipient: Add this paragraph if the Recipient wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept
Tok.ns and to deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please delete the paragraph. Please
delele this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Association.


﻿-7-
Attachment 3
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
i;o Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
January 20, 2010
The World Bank (Bank)6 will provide secure identification devices (Tokens) to permit the Borrower7 to
deliver applications for withdrawal and a)plications for special commitments under the Agreement(s) and
supporting documentation (such applicat ons and supporting documentation together referred to in these
Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of
use specified herein.
A.     Identification of Users.
i. The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter (ASL) duly
delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to deliver Applications.
The Bank will provide Tokens to each person identified in the ASL (Signatory), as provided
below. The Borrower shall a;so immediately notify the Bank if a Signatory is no longer
authorized by the Borrower to ac. as a Signatory.
2      Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.ora ) prior to delivery of Tokens. Registration on CC will
require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The Signatory shall not reveal
his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC Password in written or other form. Upon
registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be assigned a unique identifying account name.
13.    Distribution, Initialization and Return of Tokens.
1.     The Bank will physically deliver a Token to each Signatory in a manner to be determined by and
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.     At the time of delivery of a Tokei to a Signatory, the Signatory will receive a copy of these Terms
and Conditions of Use for purposes of initializing the Token.
3.     The Bank will verify that the Token, Temporary Password and Terms and Conditions of Use have
been duly delivered to and received by the CC User.
4.     Promptly upon receipt of the Toen and Terms and Conditions of Use, the Signatory will access
CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register his/her Token and set a personal
identification number (PIN) to be used in connection with the use of his/her Token, after which the
Token will be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering
Applications. Upon initializatior of the Token, the Signatory will be a "Token User". The Bank
will maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each Token User for purposes of
managing the Token of the Token User. Neither the Borrower nor the Token User will have any
access to the Account.
5.     Prior to first use of the Token b) the Token User for delivering Applications, the Borrower shall
ensure that the Token User has received training materials provided by the Bank in use of the
Token.
6 "Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
"Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance
and the recipient of a grant.


﻿-8-
6.     Tokens shall be promptly returned to the Bank upon request of the Bank.
C.     Management of Tokens.
Tokens will remain the property :f the Bank.
2.     Use of the Token is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the Token User in the
manner prescribed by the Bank n the Agreement(s) and these Terms and Conditions. Any other
use of the Token is prohibited.
3.     The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the Token by the
Token User, other representative; of the Borrower, or third parties.
4.     The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such representation
and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in delivery of a Token to each Token User)
that each Token User is provided, understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of
Use, including without limitation the following:
Security
4.1.   The Token User shall iot reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in
written or other form.
4.2.   The Token User shall nct allow anyone else to utilize a Token to deliver an Application
to the Bank.
4.3.   The Token User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to
logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4.   If the Token User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her Token
he/she shall immediately notify clientconnectionthworldbank.ore.
4.5.   The Borrower shall imnediately notify the Bank at clientconnection_worldbank.orR of
any lost, stolen or compromised Tokens, and take other reasonable steps to ensure such Tokens are
disabled immediately.
Care of Tokens
4.6.   Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore should be
handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to extreme temperatures,
crushed or bent. Also, Tokens should be kept more than five (5) cm from devices that generate
electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and
other similar devices. Tokens should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At
close range (less than 5 cm), these devices can output high levels of EMR that can interfere with
the proper operation of electronic equipment, including the Token.
4.7     Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical instructions
on the proper use and care Tokens are available at http://www.rsa.com.
5.     Replacement
5.1.   Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Tokens will be
replaced at the expense of the Bo Tower.


﻿-9-
5.2.   The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Token in the case of
misuse, or not to reactivate a Token User's Account
6.     Reservation of Right to disable Token
6.1.    The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a Token User to use a
Token for any reason.
6.2.   The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently disable a
Token, de-activate a Token User's Account or both.


﻿-10-
Attachment 4
Financial Monitoring Reports
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Promoting of Basic Services Program Phase III Project
Sub Program A
Interim Unaudited Financial Report
Content
Discussion of Financial performance, Notes & Explanations
Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses of Fund
Statement of use of fund by program activity
Statement of Expenditure forecasts
Statement of Cash Forecasts
Statement of Designated accounts by ,ach sub program
Statement of recurrent Expenditure summery


﻿Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED)
Protection of Basic Services Program Phase II Project (PBS)
Consolidated Statement of Sources & Uses of Funds
For the Quarter Ended on *                20121n Birr
Current Quarter                           Cumulative
Opening Balance
Designated Account( Al)
Designated Account A2
Sub-Progrim A2 ETB A/C
Other Balance
Total opening balance
Sources
Government
IDA H4770 A
IDA H4770 A (Transfer from H4420 and
advance from IDA 45430)
IDA 4578') A2
IDA 45780 Al
IDA 48670
IDA H 6430 Al
Austria Fur d
TF94641
Grant No. 2100150023294 - ADB *
KFW for Sub Program Al
KFW for Sub Program A2
Total Sources
Available Funds
Program Transfers
Sub Program Al
All Regicrs
Total transfer Sub program Al
Sub program A2 **
All Regicrs
Tota' transfer Sub program A2
Total transfers (Al +A2)
Excess of ncome over transfers
Add: Gain f-om foreign exchange rate
Less : Bank service Charges
Closing Balance
Designated Account Sub-Program Al
Designated Account Sub-Program A2
Sub-Program A2 ETB A/C
Other Ealance **
Total closing balance               I                  I_I
The applied exchange rates for closing is  1 USD=........
*Other balanzl3s refers to balances other than the once indicated a )ove..
4


﻿Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED)
Protection of Basic Services Program Phase II Project (PBS)
Consolidated Statement of Sources & Uses of Funds
For the Quarter Ended on *             In USD
Current Quarter                          Cumulative
Opening Balance
Designated Account Al
Designated Account A2
Sub-Program A2 ETB A/C
Other Balance
Total opening balance
Sources
Government
IDA H47-0 A
IDA H4770 A (Transfer from H4420
and advance from IDA 45430)
IDA 4578) A2
IDA 45780 Al
IDA 48670*
IDA H6430 AI*
Austria contribution
TF94641
Grant No. ^ 100150023294 - ADB
KFW for Sb Program Al
KFW for Sub Program A2
Total Sources
Available Funds
Programme Transfers
Sub Progr;rn Al
All Regions
Total transfer Sub program Al
Sub program A2
All Regions
Total transfer Sub program
A2
Total transfers
Excess of :ncome over transfers
Less :
Bank serN ices Charges
Foreign Exchange loss from rate
Sub Total
Closing Balance
Designated Account Al
Designated Account A2
Sub-Prognrm A2 ETB A/C
Other Balznce
Total closing balance
Notes:
The applied exchange rates for dosing is 1USD=17.2366 ETB
Other balances refers to balances other than the once indicated abovE..
5


﻿Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED)
Protection of Basic Services Program Phase II Project (PBS)
Block Grant Transfer Forecast
For the Quarter Ended on *******
In Birrs and USD dollars
Cash Requirement      Cash Requirement for      Cash Requirement for the 6  Cash Requirement for the 6 months
for Quarter ending        Quarter ending           months ending ******               ending *****
on *******
Birr                    Birr                        Birr                           USD
,omponent/Sub Component
;ub Program Al
Health
Agriculture & Nat res
Education
Water &Sanitation
Roads
Sub total-Sub Program Al
Sub Program A2(Forecast by the
AG woredas)
Sub total-Sub Program A2
3rand Total
lote:
. Exchange rate used is USD 1= Birr 17.2366
6


﻿Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED)
Protection of Basic Services Program Phase II Project (PBS)
Summary of Cash Forecast *
As at *******
In Birrs and USD dollars
(a)                (b)                 (c)
Cash Requirement   Cash Requirement   Cash Requirement for Cash Requirement
for Quarter ending  for Quarter ending  the 6 months ending  for the 6 months
ending *****
Component/Sub Component           Birr               Birr                Birr               USD
Forecasted total Transfer
Sub Program Al
Sub program A2
Total
Less: amount to be paid
through Direct Payment or
Less : Cash Balance at 07
January 2011
Designated Account Sub-
Program t I
Designat:ed Account Sub-
Program A2
Sub-Program A2 ETB A/C
Other Balances
Total Cash at Bank
Net Cash Requirement
Apportionment of Net Cash
requirement by financers:
Government
IDA 45780-ET A2
IDA 4770-ET*
IDA H4770 A2 ( LIG)
TF94641
IDA 48670
IDA H6430
TF LIG
Grant No. 2100150023294 -
ADB
Total
Note:
2.Exchange rate used is USD 1= Birr 17.2366
7


﻿Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED)
Protection of Basic Services Program Phase II Project(PBS)
Summnry of Statement of Transfers to Waredfs Al & A2
For the Quarter Ended on *
Transfer
Recurrent                                   Capital                 Total (recurrent +Capital)
Current quarter       Cumulative              Current quarter     Cumulative         Current quarter
Tigray
Afar
Amhara
Oromia
Somali
Benshangule
umze
SNNPR
Gambella
Hareri *
ire Dawa
otal
8


﻿linistry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED)
rotection of Basic Services Program Phase II Project (PBS)
esignated Account (DA) Statement for Sub-program Al
)r the Quarter Ended on
I US Dollars
escription                    Total             4578 IDA          Austra cont      IDA H6430           KFW Sub Pr Al           TF94641-      Grant No21OOB
DFID&Irish aid
pening balance
onor advance during the Period
efunded to Donors from DA
iring the auarter
vailable
~ss:
ransfers out of the DA to the
-asury during the  quarter
3ank Services Charges
otal Transfer and Bank Service
[arges
)A closing balance as      at
09,January,2012
9


﻿MINISTRY O0 YlNANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PROTECTION OF BASIC SERVICES - LIG SUB COMPONENT
STATEMENT OF SPECIAL ACCOUNT
For the Quarter Ended ******
For period
Account number
IDA 45780 LIG
Currency: USD
Beginning balance
Add: World Bank
Deduct: Transfer to Birr account
Ending Balance
10


﻿ry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED)
tion of Basic Services Program Phase II Project (PBS)
(ionient
e Quarter Ended on *
Dollars
rogram Al and Sub-Program A2
artionment table Q2 2004 EFY
IDA
Grant No.
2100150023294 - ADB
Government   IDA 48670  IDA 4578  IDA H4770*  TF94641                           Total
3rogram Al
3rogram A2
Transfer to
ns


﻿-11-
Attachment 5
Payments Made during Reporting Period
Against Contracts Subject to the Bank's Prior Review
r      WB's No                          Amt Pailo
Contract'     ..Objectli*                      p Wf
Number         Supplier        Da           Amount        to Contract        b                Period


﻿2
oJ~ 0
~
6
0
0
0
'fl
-e
ci-)


