Report No. PID5897
Project Name                     Philippines-Local Government Units   (@+) ...
Urban Water and Sanitation Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Water Sector
Project ID                       PHPA39022
Borrower                         Government of Philippines through the
Development Bank of the Philippines
Implementing Agency              Development Bank of the Philippines,
DBP Building,
Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue, Makati City
Tel:        (632) 815-9511
Fax:      (632) 815-1517
Date PID Prepared                September 24, 1997
Date Initial PID Updated         November 30, 1998
Project Appraisal                July 1998
Projected Board Date             December 15, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background
Significant policy changes have occurred in the Philippine water sector, and
in decentralizing infrastructural responsibilities in the last few years. The
highest policy making body in the country, the NEDA Board, chaired by the
President of Philippines, passed three Resolutions, Nos. 4, 5 and 6 that have
laid out the national policies toward water supply and sanitation provisioning
in the country within a decentralized framework of service provision. On the
water supply side, a Water Management Cluster or Cabinet Cluster G has been
established, with the specific mandate of implementing the policy
recommendations. In June 1995, a National Water Crisis Act (RA 8041) was
enacted. Under this legislation, the Executive Branch was vested with special
powers in order to improve the management of water resources in general, and
addressing the specific water crisis faced by the Metro Manila area. On the
decentralization side, the Local Government Code of 1991 has devolved urban
civic responsibilities to the LGU administrations. NEDA Board Resolution No. 6
of 1996, has further clarified that planning and implementation
responsibilities for infrastructure programs/projects will be with LGUs, with
the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) functioning as the
national agency responsible for building capacity in LGUs.
The two main objectives of the Philippine national water sector policies are
also emphasized in the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. These are to:
- undertake institutional changes that would encourage the private sector to
finance and manage water supply services in water utilities in which unmet
demand from consumers is significant, and
- strengthen capacity in water sector institutions to plan and implement
water supply and sanitation infrastructure investments based on local
priorities and demand.
Translating these objectives into actual action in municipal-managed water
supply systems is aim of the LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Program (LGUUWSP).



Project preparation has been undertaken at a time of significant alterations
in the institutional structure and financing of water supply investments in
large water utilities of the Philippines. The Metropolitan Waterworks and
Sewerage System (MWSS) has been privatized through two Concession Contracts on
August 1, 1997. In the water districts, and areas of urban centers there has
been active interest shown by the private sector in various types of
outsourcing arrangements, ranging from BOT contracts to service contracts. A
significant challenge for the Government is how best to plan and implement
investments that lead to sustainable water supply and sanitation services in
approximately 1000 small towns (usually below 100,000 population), in which
water supply systems are managed by municipal agencies. Among these towns,
the project's particular focus will be on providing access to clean water and
sanitation in Class V and Class VI towns, in which service access and
reliability are considered extremely unsatisfactory.
2.      Objectives
The central objectives of this project, which will be the first of three loans
utilizing the adaptable program loan instrument, are the sustainable
improvement of water and sanitation services in the small (i.e. class V and
class VI) towns of the Philippines, and providing phased, but sustained
support for the implementation of a long term development plan in the 1000
LGU-managed water utilities in the country. The project concept is to achieve
these objectives through the practical demonstration in LGU projects that,
with appropriate design and institutional incentives, these relatively small
water supply systems can be made both viable and sustainable.
3.      Project Benefits
By current estimates approximately one million residents of the poorest urban
areas in the Philippines will benefit by project investments. These benefits
would depend on the degree to which the project is able to assist GOP
translate national policy statements into easily understood procedures and
rules by which communities, town councils and Mayors are able to access
financing of water supply infrastructure. The project's focus is to develop
services, according to consumer wishes and willingness to pay. Preliminary
evidence indicates that residents of these towns perceive substantial benefits
if services are provided according to local demand. The extent of benefits,
therefore, depends on the efficiency with which a demand-based approach is
actually implemented.
The flexible design adopted, and the utilization of the adaptable program loan
instrument will enable the Government, at both the national and LGU level, to
identify and discuss issues and problems as and when they arise. In other
words, the project implementation experience enables the Government assess
what is working and what is not working when the national policies are
translated into operational programs designed at water and sanitation
improvements in the Philippine cities and towns.
4. Project Risks
The principal project risk is that despite the LGU Governments and communities
in the project towns could be unwilling or unable to borrow funds to finance
the investments, as envisaged. As a means of mitigating this risk, the
- 2-



following process has been followed:
1. The project concept was discussed at a National LGU Water seminar in Manila
in June this year. About 40 LGUs were represented at the Seminar, and there
was broad agreement on project design;
2. The borrowing capacity of the fourteen towns participating in the first
phase has been estimated, utilizing a long-term financial planning model
developed for this purpose. The choice between technical options was developed
on the basis of the available budget envelopes, and through a process on
intensive community consultations, in which at least 60 per cent of
communities signified their agreement with project rules with regard to water
tariffs and service levels. As a further reconfirmation, the Sangunniang
Bayan (Municipal Councils) endorsed the project concepts through formal
resolutions.
3. The detailed engineering designs is being currently completed in close
consultation with all stakeholders (beneficiaries, town councils and Mayors).
By the time the Subsidiary Loan Agreements are signed by participating town
Mayors, full ownership of the process and the product is anticipated.
4. Based on the experience of what worked and what did not work in these towns
the investment program in the remaining towns will be developed.
5. Description
The proposed project will provide approximately thirty five LGU-managed water
utilities with sustainable provision of water and sanitation services. The
project design does not envisage fixed "blueprints" or prescribed solutions.
Instead, the project preparation phase, which is on-going, is finalizing
detailed engineering designs for a set of about fourteen towns using a
participative, "bottom-up" planning process. Once the financing,
institutional and organizational rules have been validated in this phase, the
project will lead to two successor loans, which will expand the program to a
total of about 250 towns, or 25 per cent of all LGU-run water utilities in
terms of:
(a) A Water Supply Investment component, through which investments in system
expansion and system rehabilitation will be undertaken on the basis of
consumer demand.
(b) A Sanitation component, through which town residents will be provided
incentives to upgrade their sanitation infrastructure at the household and
neighborhood levels.
(c) An Urban drainage component, through which micro-drainage infrastructure
investments will be financed, if communities express a demand for such
services.
(d) An Institutional Capacity Building Program Component, through which
operation and management (O&M) of facilities constructed will be outsourced,
wherever feasible, through different contracting arrangements involving the
private sector. In addition training will provided to existing utility staff
for better O&M of existing facilities.
- 3-



Adaptable Program Loan Description:
The three loans under the adaptable program loan instrument are expected to
achieve steady progress over an agreed seven year program through the
following projects:
Project I (APL1): Testing and operationalizing the demand-based framework, as
supported by GOP policy pronouncements, in approximately 35 LGUs. In this
phase satisfactory water supply services will be extended to about 34,000
service connection in 13 towns at an investment cost of $27 million. All the
towns have opted to outsource operations and maintenance of the constructed
facilities through affermage (i.e. lease) contracts between the municipal
governments and private sector operators. Sanitation investments by
households will be financed through a special facility created for this
purpose in the loan.
Project II (APL2, from 2000 to 2003): Scaling up, on the basis of APL1, to a
significant number of additional towns (about 80 more towns) that demonstrate
sufficient demand to warrant inclusion and completion of contractual
arrangements for private sector participation as developed in Phase I systems.
Project III (APL3, from 2002 to 2005): Changing the role of Government
Financing Institutions from retailers to wholesalers of loans, inducing
private sector banks to invest in LGU-based water supply and sewerage systems.
Improved financial management in LGUs and improved management of water systems
through private sector participation are also expected.
Triggers for subsequent loans:
Likely conditions to proceed to APL2: To be met before commitment of APL2:
- Devolution of operation, management, and revenue collection
responsibilities under long-term commercial arrangements in 12 LGUs;
Project-funded system improvements fully operational in 10 LGUs
Likely conditions to Proceed for APL3:
- Devolution of operation, management and revenue collection
responsibilities under long-term management contracts and leasing
arrangements in 40 additional LGUs
- Achievement of a working ratio less than 0.50 in at least 80 LGU
water utilities receiving financing from APLs 1 and 2
- Achievement of at least 16 hours of water per day to 60 per cent of
households in participating urban areas with completed systems through
APLs 1 and 2 investments
- Average of 80t of consumers satisfied with service performance in
participating LGUs
- At least 60t of households in a barangay connected to the water
supply system
6.      Financing
The total project cost is estimated to be US$31.9 million (including
contingencies), of which IBRD is expected to finance US$23.3 million (about 73
per cent). The loan will be channeled through the Development Bank of the
Philippines. For the technical assistance for building institutional capacity
in LGUs and in DILG, bilateral funding is being currently finalized by the
Government with the Nordic Development Fund and the European Union.
-4 -



7.      Project Implementation
Project preparation began in December 1995, after funding was received from
the Danish Trust Funds. These resources were utilized to test out the project
concepts in four small towns of the Philippines. Based on the lessons learned,
the project design was developed between January and August 1997. An
additional grant of $400,000 from the Japan Government PHRD funds was utilized
to complete project preparation. Project appraisal was completed in July 1998.
8.      Sustainability
The project will be testing out how best national policies to target
relatively poor urban centers with water and sanitation services are to be
operationalized. In order to accomplish this objective the project design has
moved away from any "blue print" solution to a flexible program of
investments and technical assistance geared towards validating what works and
what doesn't work in the Philippine institutional context. Sustainability will
be accomplished during project implementation through a free and frank
dialogue between the project team and various stakeholders (beneficiaries,
national agencies, LGU officials, contractors etc.) on project performance,
and agreeing on measures to remedy any problems that may arise.
9.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank's lending program in the Philippines has been largely focused on MWSS
or the Metro Manila area. Four loans for water supply and one for sewerage
have been supported. The Manila Second Sewerage Project (MSSP) and the Water
Districts Development Project (WDDP) have been approved by the Board; the MSSP
is effective, while the WDDP is not yet effective. Outside the metro area,
the Provincial Cities Water Supply Project (Loan 1415-PH, US$23 million) to
improve water supply in five provincial towns of Luzon, Water Supply in
Provincial Towns Project (loan 1710/Credit 920-PH for US$38 million in 1979,
Rural Water Supply Project (Loan 2206-PH, for US$35.5 million in 1982), and
the First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Project (loan 3242-PH,
for US$85 million in 1990) were supported. All of the above non-MWSS
projects, with the exception of the First Water Supply, Sewerage and
Sanitation Sector Project, have been completed.
The lessons learned from the earlier experiences were largely responsible for
the shift from project lending to economic and sector work in the late 1980s
and early 1990s, and explains the long hiatus in processing water supply and
sanitation projects outside the Metro Manila area over the past few years.
Evaluations of World Bank or IDA-financed water supply projects outside Metro
Manila indicate that project design problems and institutional problems led to
poor cost recovery and unsatisfactory operations and maintenance problems.
The most common problems encountered during implementation were:
- difficulties honoring institutional and financial covenants in loan
agreements;
- poor coordination between implementing agencies
- lack of ownership among communities of constructed facilities, and
- inability in many communities/agencies to operate and maintain constructed
water and sanitation facilities in a sustainable manner.
- 5 -



10.     Poverty Category
The project aims at improving access of residents of small towns, whose
income levels are relatively low, to safe water and sanitation. The bulk of
project investments will be targeted to ensure that health and economic
benefits from project investments reach low income households adequately.
11.     Environmental Aspects
The project investments address the common problems of poor coverage and
unreliable access of residents in small Philippine towns to water supply and
sanitation facilities. By investing in water supply, sanitation, drainage and
solid waste infrastructure facilities the project will ensure that health and
economic benefits reach low income households adequately. Environmental
Assessments have been prepared in each of the participating towns, in order to
ensure that adverse impacts, if any are managed adequately. An Operational
Manual has been prepared to ensure that future subprojects meet the GOP and
World Bank environmental guidelines.
12.     Program Objectives Categories
The project is aimed at launching a program promoting sustainable development
of urban water resources in small towns located in the poorest regions of the
country. It will thus address a vital component of the Government's overall
plan to improve the management of water resources.
13.     Contact Point            The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 27, 1998.
- 6 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



