Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18367-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$23.3 MILLION
TO THE
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES (DBP)
FOR A
LGU URBAN WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 1, 1998
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific- Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Peso
P.025=US$ I
US$ 1.00 = P 40.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   -        Asian Development Bank
APL    -       Adaptable Program Lending
BAP   -        Barangay Action Plan
CAS   -        Country Assistance Strategy
COA   -        Commission on Audit
DBP   -        Development Bank of the Philippines
DENR  -        Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DILG   -       Department of Interior and Local Government
DOF   -        Department of Finance
DPWH  -        Department of Public Works and Highways
EA     -       Environmental Assessment
EMP   -        Environmental Management Plan
EU     -       European Union
GFI    -       Government Financing Institution
GOP   -        Government of the Philippines
IDA    -       International Development Agency
IFC    -       International Finance Corporation
IRA    -       Internal Revenue Allocation
LGU    -       Local Government Unit
LWUA  -        Local Water Utilities Administration
MOA   -        Memorandum of Agreement
MWSS -         Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
NEDA  -        National Economic Development Agency
NDF   -        Nordic Development Fund
OECF  -        Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PMO   -        Project Management Office (national level)
PMU   -        Project Management Unit (in each LGU)
SB     -       Sangguniang Bayan (Municipal Council)
SOE   -        Statement of Expenditures
USAID -        United States Agency for Development
WUPSPF-        Water Utilities Private Sector Participation Facility
Vice President:   Jean-Michel Severi no, EAP
Country Manager/Director:    Vinay K. Bhargava. EACPF
Sector Manager/Director:    Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    N. Vijay Jagannathan, EASUR



PHILIPPINES
LGU URBAN WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
l. Program purpose and program phasing:                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                       3
3. Key performance indicators                                                          4
B. Strategic Context
l. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                   7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            10
4. Indicatioi.. of borrower commitment and ownership                                  11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         11
E. Summary Project Analyses
I. Economic                                                                           11
2. Finanicial                                                                          12
3. Teclhnical                                                                          13
4. Institutional                                                                       13
5. Social                                                                             14
6. Environmental assessment                                                            14
7. Participatory approach                                                             15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     16
111I 



2. Critical risks                                                                      16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      17
G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                           17
2. Other                                                                               18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         33
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   34
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       46
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     54
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                       55
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  56
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            58
MAP(S)
IBRD 29796
-IV-



PHILIPPINES
LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
East Asia Urban Sector Development Unit
Date: November 1, 1998                             Team Leader: Vijay Jagannathan
Country Manager/Director: Vinay K. Bhargava        Sector Manager/Director: Keshav Varma
Project ID: 39022                                  Sector(s): WW - Water Supply & Sanitation Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intenrention: No
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan         Implementation Period          Borrower
. _______  _______________              __________        (B ank     FY )
IBRD          Others       Total    Commitment  Closing
US$ m     %       US$ m       US$ m         Date       Date
APL 1        23.3    73.0        8.6        31.9     05/01/99    05/01/2   Development Bank of the
Loan/                                                          002   Philippines, with the Republic
Credit                                                                of the Philippines as guarantor
APL 2        60.0    75.0       20.0        80.0   05/01/200    05/01/2   Development Bank of the
Loan/                                                  1        004   Philippines and Land Bank of
Credit                                 .                              Philippines, with the Republic
of the Philippines as guarantor
APL 3        100.0    75.2      33.0       133.0   05/01/200    05/01/2   Development Bank of the
Loan/                                                  3        007   Philippines and Land Bank of
Credit                                                                Philippines, with the Republic
of the Philippines as guarantor
Total        183.3              61.6       244.9
Project Financing Data
1 Loan          OI Credit      EO Grant         Ol Guarantee     L Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
jAmount (USSm) 23.3
Proposed Terms: FO To be defined  n7 Multicurrency Z Single currency
I Standard Variable El Fixed        ' LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             5
Years to maturity:                20
Commitment fee:                   0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan        1.00%



Financing Plan:    El To be defined
Source                              Local         Foreign          Total
Government                                                       2.6             0.0           2.6
IBRD                                                            13.2            10.1          23.3
IDA                                                              0.0             0.0           0.0
Total:                                                           15.8           10.1          25.9
Borrower: Development Bank of the Philippines
Guarantor: Republic of the Philippines
Responsible agency:
Department of Interior and Local Government and Participating Local Government Units (LGUs)
Implementing agency(ies):
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           2000        2001         2002
Annual      5.8          7.8          9.7
Cumulative     5.8          13.6        23.3
Project implementation period: 3
Expected effectiveness date: 05/01/99  Expected closing date:  05/01/2002
OCS APL PAD Form: October 9, 1998
-2 -



A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The Bank's assistance strategy for the Philippines is to strengthen infrastructure, facilitate private sector
participation, and upgrade basic urban services in its towns, so that the Government's objective of ensuring
that at least 90 per cent of the urban populations have access to safe and reliable water supply can be
achieved within a reasonable period of time. This program aims to implement the strategy by assisting
LGU-managed water utilities to operate on commercial principles, and thereby provide consumers with
safe, reliable, sustainable water and sanitation services in about 250 secondary towns and cities in the
Philippines. If the Program achieves its impact (stated as the Development Objectives indicators), this will
contribute, along with other related programs, to improving the living standards of the urban population.
The development objective of the LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Program is to ensure that by year
2007, approximately a quarter of LGU-managed water utilities is able to provide residents with water and
sanitation services on the basis of consumer demand, as enunciated in NEDA Board Resolutions Nos. 4
and 5 of 1994, and NEDA Board Resolution No. 6 of 1996. In order to achieve this objective the program
will generate incentives for the private sector to participate in utility management, lower production costs
and increase responsiveness to consumers.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of this project will be achieved through a series of three Bank-supported
investments, which will assist the Government of the Philippines implement its forward-looking water and
sanitation sector policies. The current challenge is one of actually implementing those policies; particularly
with regard to:
a) Clarifying the role of local government units (LGUs) in the provision of water supply services and
determinie the types of assistance made available to them by national government agencies concerned;
b) Providing guidance to the LGUs in the development and implementation of viable and sustainable water
supply projects, supporting the principles of managing water as an economic good, promoting a
demand-oriented approach in the provision of services and management to be made at the lowest
appropriate level, greater private sector participation in service delivery, and
c) Identifying institutional strengthening needs of LGUs that would develop their capacity to adequately
perforn their financing, planning and service provisioning functions.
The project objective is to test and fine-tune the set of institutional, technical, financial and economic rules
through which the national policies can be translated to concrete measures that ensure better quality water
supply and sanitation services in hundreds of small towns in the Philippines. The project development
objective is. therefore, to provide practical demonstration, through a reasonably large sample of Local
Government Units (LGUs), that with appropriate technical and financial designs, pricing rules and
institutional incentives, water supply systems, irrespective of size, can be made both viable and sustainable.
A litmus test on whether this demonstration exercise has succeeded is the extent to which the private sector
is willing to invest its time, effort and finances in supporting the water utilities in these towns.
- 3 -



The experiences gathered with regard to the implementation of project rules, and whether or not the private
sector shows interest in the proposed lease (affermage) contracts will be evaluated and utilized to calibrate
the Operational Manual developed for the project. These lessons will serve to scale up the investment
program to about 80 towns in the second project (APL2), due to start in late 1999. Annex I describes the
project development objectives and key indicators.
3. Program Objectives
APL I and APL2 aim at attracting the private sector in order to help LGUs operate water supply systems
better thain what is the current practice, and also at developing a sufficiently large LGU-based water
utilities market, which can (under APL3 and beyond) attract much needed private sector financing into the
sector. T'he program objectives, therefore, have both a short-term and a long-term aspect. In the
short-terrn (APLI and APL2), the objective is to finance investments in water supply infrastructure, and
attract sufficient numbers of private sector operators to operate and maintain LGU-managed water supply
systems efficiently, while being responsive to its customers. In the long term (APL3 and beyond), the
objective is to create a sufficiently large market for LGU-based water utilities, so that private financing
institutions supplement the meager public financing available at present.
The program objective will be accomplished if safe, reliable and sustainable water supply and sanitation
services to at least 90 per cent of all urban residents in the Philippines is accomplished in participating
towns by 2007, compared to the current estimate of 55 to 60 per cent. It may be noted that the three APLs
proposed are the first significant intervention in a long-term program of sector assistance aimed at changing
the structure and incentives of water utilities in the Philippines, and are entirely consistent with the Bank's
sector assistance strategy. The three elements in the Bank's program of sector assistance are to:
a) Assist water utilities improve operational efficiency and accountability to consumers : This will be
in the for-m of developing rules and procedures that enable water utilities to provide services according to
what consumers want and are willing to pay for.
b) Facilitate private sector participation in the sector: In order to facilitate private sector participation
provide technical assistance to the national government to develop a well-articulated framework of national
policies that improves the overall business environment in water utilities.
c) Leveraige private financial flows into the water and sanitation sector: The biggest challenge in the
urban areas is to attract adequate financing for basic urban services in LGUs, as public financing is limited
because of competing claims on limited resources. Private financing will be attracted only when an
adequate track record is established in the cities and municipalities, with tariffs raised to financially viable
levels, and local administrations have built a record of honoring their commitments.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Documenit number: Report No. 1 5362-PH                             Date of latest CAS discussion:
02/15/96
A significant element of the Country Assistance Strategy is the offer of World Bank assistance to the
Government to strengthen infrastructure/facilitate private sector participation. In the water sector Bank
lending will support the rationalization of management of urban water utilities, promote private sector
- 4 -



participation, and help increase coverage of urban populations to safe and reliable water supply. The
proposed project will advance these objectives in about thirty five of the approximately one thousand LGUs
in which municipal offices manage town water supply systems under APL 1.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
i. General issues affecting the sector:
(a) Lack of adequate coverage: A substantial population in Metro Manila as wel l as in other urban areas
of the town is without access to safe water and sanitation. In the 1000 small towns where municipal
agencies are responsible for water supply and sanitation, approximately 37 per cent of the population do
not have access to safe water and sanitation. These residents end up paying unlit rates for water supply at
ten to fifteen times higher than what residents with access to public sector services pay. The estimated
financing requirements to meet existing deficits in services run into billions of dollars.
(b) Unreliable services: Even among those with piped water, services are often restricted to less than one
hour a day. Residents often have to privately invest in wells, arrange for contracts with water vendors etc.
to mitigate the risk of unreliable supply.
(c) Inefficient management of water utilities : The general standards of efficiency have been low
throughout the country in LGU-managed water utilities. Tariffs have been often set based on political
considerations, rather than on the basis of operational efficiency. Further, only a few have any metering in
place, and the constructed water supply systems are managed by poorly trained staff.
ii. Specific issues to be addressed by the proiect:
(d) Unsustainable service provisioning, especially in small towns: Water supply services have been
unable to meet demand because the past sectoral practice was one of undertaking investments based on
programs and generic designs, rather than responding to what consumers wanted and were willing to pay
for. There could be major welfare gains to communities if reliable and adequate water supply facilities are
available oni the basis of what consumers want and are willing to pay for. Such changes would also reduce
the dependence of these water utilities on financial subventions from the LGUs concerned.
(e) Low institutional and technical capacity in LGU-managed water utilities: LGUs lack trained
technical and financial management staff to run the water utilities as commercial enterprises. Additionally
the small size of the respective customer bases make these utilities generally unattractive to qualified
professionals and to infrastructure financing institutions.
iii. Government Strategy
Since 1994 the Government of Philippines, with donor support, has instituted a series of measures to
develop a policy and financing framework aimed at (a) rationalizing the Philippine water sector, (b)
promoting private sector participation, and (c) improving water and sanitation service delivery to low
income communities in urban areas. NEDA Board Resolution Nos. 4 and 5, series of 1994, have laid out
the national policies for extending sustainable service provisions in the country. A Water Management
Cluster or Cabinet Cluster G was established with the mandate of implementing the policy
recommendations. In June 1995 the National Water Crisis Act (RA 8041) was enacted, vesting the
Executive with special powers in order to improve management of water resources in general, and
addressing the specific water crisis faced by the Metro Manila area. In April 1996, the Joint
Executive-Legislative Water Crisis Commission, set up under the National Water Crisis Act completed its
recommendations to the President on strategies and approaches that could be adopted to rationalize and
streamlinie the water sector in the Philippines. Further, NEDA Board Resolution No 6 in May 1996
devolved planning and implementation of water and sanitation services to LGUs. with the Department of
Interior and Local Government (DILG) being made the national agency responsible for building capacity in
LGUs. A Presidential Task Force for Water Resources Management presented to the Philippine Congress a
-5 -



Bill to reorganize regulatory arrangements for the water sector. Finally, in August 1997, the Government
successfilly privatized MWSS by the award of two concession contracts.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The challenige is to build into the design and operation of LGU systems practices which reflect the
forward-looking principles already incorporated in the above resolutions. Chief among these are that water
will be maniaged as an economic good, that the projects must be demand-oriented, and the systems managed
at the lowest appropriate level. In the context of the small LGU-managed water utilities, which have been
traditionally considered as being "non-viable" water supply systems, this requires a period of "doing and
learning"' before the changed approach can be operationalized across the entire sector. So far about 200
LGUs have signaled their interest in participating in the project, despite its conditionalities with regard to
pricing of services, cost recovery and institutional re-organization. As the size of each individual subproject
is likely to be quite small, the project team and national government have agreed to test out the
metlhodoiogy for an initial batch of about thirty five towns, before the project is launched on a large-scale
through the subsequent loans using the Adaptable Program Loan instrument.
In this project the following strategy is being followed in order to validate the policy concepts before the
successor project experiences enable the launch of a nation-wide program of improving basic water supply
and sanitation services:
a Frotm Principles to Practice: Technically Feasible Options and User Clhoice:
The management of water as an economic good and demand-orientation require that municipal systems are
constructed which provide local consumers the opportunity to make an inforned choice among technically
feasible options for the delivery of services. As technically feasible options for the delivery of service have
significanitly different capital and operating costs and provide somewhat different levels of service, choice
has to be exercised by users. The key element in the procedure to select supply options, is the value which
users atta[ch to the improvement in service offered by the technical option. This information regarding user
valuatioti is most accurately provided by the willingness of users to pay for the service. Consequently,
project procedures have included not only the preparation of technically feasible options but user
indications of the value (willingness to pay) which they attach to the different options. Selection of the
preferred option was negotiated between LGU administrations and the users, with mutually shared
information about the expected costs and the expected user payment for the improvement. The project
promoted full cost recovery, with users from the household level to the barangay and town council levels
exercising choice, and paying for the services. A Consultant team, funded under a Japan Government
PHRD grant worked closely with LGU administrations to operationalize the above process.
b. From iPrinciples to Practice: Lowest Appropriate Management Level:
In determiniing the lowest appropriate level for the management of water supply systems, the project design
takes into account that the cost of a technical option is strongly influenced by the management mode and
the scope of the service area. Economies of scale often result in lower costs for services to larger service
areas. In practice, therefore, it is useful to investigate in which cases the establishment of a regional service
deliverv orcranization would result in lower costs and lower requirements for user payments for the same
service level, compared to single LGU management. Such regional organizations are likely to have
cost-saving advantages in several areas. It is intended to evaluate such optioins in this project, if mayors in
the affected regions desire that it should be considered. A sub-regional system in Isabela province has been
recomminelnded in the first batch of projects of APLI. In the second batch of projects of APLI, the
prospects of subregional systems appear to be promising.
-6 -



c. From Principles to Practice: Identifying Feasible Financing Levels and Repayment Options: In the
case of participating LGUs, the costs of agreed improvements are large relative to the initial revenue base
of the LGU. Moreover, the expected benefits from the improvement for current and future users will be
long lasting, if managed effectively. Financing the improvements from up-front revenues will not generally
be possible for LGUs. LGUs, however, have little experience in financial management much beyond the
range of current budgets. Practice in LGU assessment of the safe scope for borrowing is limited.
Assistance to overcome this deficiency in the processing of the project has been provided by the
development of a long-range financial management model to estimate LGU borrowing capacity to finance
improvements safely. This estimate was discussed with each LGU during field visits, and has formed the
basis of estimating the size of the IBRD loan.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loan:
The program development objectives will be achieved with steady progress over an agreed seven year
program including the following projects:
Prqiect I (APLI): Testing and operationalizing the demand-based framework, as supported by GOP stated
policy, in approximately 35 LGUs. In the first APL satisfactory water supply services will be extended to
about 34,000 service connections in 12 municipalities at an investment cost of $28 million. Many towns
have opted to outsource operations and maintenance of the constructed facilities through affermage (i.e.
lease) contracts between the municipal governments and private sector operators. Sanitation investments
by houselholds will be through specific arrangement between the LGU, the operator and the households.
Project 11 (APL2): Scaling up, on the basis of APLI, to a significant number of additional cities and
municipalities (estimated at 80) that demonstrate sufficient demand to warrant inclusion and completion of
contractual arrangements for private sector participation as developed in APLI supported subprojects.
Project III (APL3): Changing the role of GFIs from retailers to wholesalers of loans, inducing private
sector banks to invest in LGU-based water supply and sewerage systems. Improved financial management
in LGUs and improved management of water systems through private sector participation are also
expected.
Triggers for subsequent loans:
The Second LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project (APL2; indicative amouLit of $60 million) would be
considered when there is:
a) Devolution of operation, management, and revenue collection responsibilities under long-term
commercial arrangements in 12 LGUs, and
b) Fully operational project-funded water supply system improvements in 10 LGUs.
The Thlird LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project (APL3; indicative amount of $100 million) would be
considered wihen there is:
a) Devolution of operation, management and revenue collection responsibilities under long-term
management contracts and leasing arrangements in 40 additional LGUs
b) Achievement of a working ratio less than 0.50 in at least 80 LGU water utilities receiving financing
from APLs I and 2
-7-



c) Achievement of at least 16 hours of water per day to connected households in participating urban areas
with completed systems through APLs I and 2 investments
d) An average of 80% of consumers satisfied with service performance in LGUs participating
e) At least 60% of households in any barangay of the LGUs participating in APL I and APL2 connected to
the water supply system
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The major component of the project is to finance civil works and equipment in water supply infrastructure
in participating municipalities. Preliminary feasibility studies and financial affordability analysis were
conducted for a total of 21 municipalities. The findings were discussed with mayors, members of town
councils and communities in order to select a technical option that matched the LGU and community
willinginess to pay. Of the 21 municipalities, twelve approved the project designs through the development
and consolidation of project implementation plan (Barangay Action Plans or BAPs, inclusive of new tariff
levels and hiow the constructed systems would be managed). For these municipalities, representing the
Phase I of the project, feasibility studies have been completed by appraisal, and detailed engineering
designs by negotiations. The sanitation and drainage components (derived from the BAPs and
environmental assessments) will finance investments in communal toilets, on-site sanitation systems, and
micro-drainage infrastructure respectively.
Based on the lessons learned from this phase, the project will finance approximately an additional 23
municipalities for Phase 11 of the project in the year2000. The Water Utilities Private Sector Participation
Facilitv will function as a pre-investment fund, designed to assist LGUs and water districts evaluate the
available private sector participation (PSP) options, and select the ones best suited for the municipalities,
cities or region. The inst*litional components (for which cofinancing arrangements are being finalized with
the NDF) will support tecnnical assistance to facilitate the formation of regional and subregional water
utilities, training utility staff to plan and manage the water utilities and local environmental concerns in a
sustainable manner, and undertake feasibility studies to prepare the next batcihes of water supply and
sewerag:e prcjects. This component will also assist DBP monitor and evaluate project performance, in order
to develop the succeeding phases of the Adaptable Program Loan (i.e. APLs 2 and 3 respectively).
Indicative               Bank-       %f of
Component                      Sector          Costs       % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)      Total      (US$M)   financing
Water Supply                                                 23.3        73.5         21.0      90.1
Sanitation                                                     1.6        5.0          1.4       87.5
Drainage                                                      0.8         2.5          0.7       87.5
Water Utilities PSP Facility                                   1.5        4.7          0.0        0.0
Project Development for Water Supply                          2.5         7.9          0.0        0.0
and Sanlitation
Institutionial Capacity Building                              2.0         6.3          0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs                          31.7       99.4         23.1       72.9
Front-end fee                          0.2         0.6          0.2     100.0
Total Financing Required                          31.9       100.0         23.3       73.0
-8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the key policy recommendations of the national government over the past five years.
It also blueprints possible approaches by which private sector interest in the sector could be enhanced. At
the consumer level, the project tests out methods by which consumers can actively participate in deciding
levels of service, based on what they and the LGUs are willing to pay for. All of the above are related to
implementation of key policy and institutional reforms that have already been established at the national
government level.
3. Benefits and target population:
An estimated 155,000 residents, many of low income levels, and in the relatively small class V and VI
municipalities) are expected to benefit from improved access to safe water and sanitation facilities from this
project. The total beneficiaries from the program is estimated to be about 6 million persons.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The loan will channeled through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP). a Government Financing
Institution. Operational management of the project will be undertaken by a Project Management Office in
DBP (DBP-PMO). Actual investments (first three components of the project) will be implemented by
Project Management Units (PMUs) established by the participating LGUs. The national government has
received an offer of cofinancing of SDRs 5 million from the Nordic Developmenit Fund for the institutional
capacitv btiilding component (of APLI and APL2), which will be coursed throuigil the Development Bank
of the Philippines. The oversight role will be exercised by the Department of Interior and Local
Governmenit and Department of Finance through a Technical Working Committee comprising these two
Departments and the DBP. This Committee will be responsible for overall coordination among the various
componenits, with its working arrangements defined in a Memorandum of Agreement.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Philippine water sector has traditionally classified water utilities as being viable and non-viable.
Financing and technical assistance has generally focused on viable water systems serving large cities and
towns, whiere the full economies of scale could be realized. Non-viable systems, as in many of the smaller
municipalities, have relied on sporadic grant financing (from bilateral donors or Congressional
Developmenlt Fund grants from locally elected Congressmen and Congresswomen). A project alternative
could have been to follow a traditional route of financing investments in larger, proven viable water
districts in the country. This alternative was rejected because the project team questioned the distinction
betweeni viable and non-viable water utilities. At the heart of the distinction lies the political economy of
tariff setting. If communities and LGU administrations could accept the idea that water supply and
sanitation services should respond to what consumers want and are willing to pay for, most systems can,
not onil\ be made viable, but in fact even be attractive in terms of private sector participation.
The inclusion of three elements of the project discussed above--preparation of feasible technical options and
their costs: agreement between service organizations and users regarding user valuation and user payment;
plus assessment of feasible borrowing capacity of LGUs--have all been on the premise that any town can
invest in viable systems, provided tariffs are set at a rate that reflects economic costs.
-9-



The project design, therefore, is focused on presenting options to users, and assisting them in deciding
levels of service they want and are willing to pay for. In these small towns, consumers were willing to pay
substantially higher prices for water than what was being traditionally charged by water utilities, provided
services met their specific requirements in terms of service reliability, quality and access. These insights
provide new institutional design options for the whole class of approximately 1000 LGU-managed water
utilities that are traditionally described as "non-viabld' water supply systems. The project design has built
flexibility during planning and implementation, so that lessons learned are fed back in succeeding phases of
the project to alter or modify project rules that are not working.
Providing, the widest range of alternatives, on the technical, financial and institutional side thus forms the
core of project design.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing aLnd planned).
I                           |    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                         Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                          Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Rural Water Supply and Sector Policy     First Water Supply, Sewerage       S             S
Frainework                               and Sanitation Sector Project
Sewerage and sanitation development in   Water Districts Development
secondary cities and introduction of public  Project (approved September 9,
performance audit in Metro Manila         1997)
Maniia sewerage and sanitation development   Manila Second Sewerage        S              S
project (Effective in March
1998)
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank: Financing of water  Small Towns Water Supply
districts. MWSS investments               Project (1997-2002)
OECF. Government of Japan: Financing of    Provincial Cities Water Supply
water districts investments               Project (I through V)
Ausaid: Financing of water districts and LGU   Baguio Water Supply Project,
water supply systems                      Northern Mindanao Water and
Sanitation project
KfW. Government of Germany                Provincial Towns Water
Supply and Sanitation
Programs I and 11
Frencil Protocol, Financing of MWSS       Rizal Water Supply Project
investments
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The inclusiion of the three elements of the project mentioned above--preparation of feasible technical
options and their costs; agreement between service organizations and users regarding user valuation and
- 10 -



user payment; plus assessment of feasible borrowing capacity of LGUs--is expected to lead to the creation
of viable systems. It is also expected to lead, in some cases, to the adoption of regional systems under the
control of LGUs and the encouragement of private sector involvement in the sector, in both the
management and operation of viable systems and in their financing. These features are based on the lessons
learned from projects in the Philippines, and elsewhere in the world, with regard to service provisioning in
low income communities, or where the community resource base is small.
The project design recommended follows substantial analytical work done by the Bank in the last decade.
Willingness to pay studies showed, that consumers were willing to pay substantially higher prices for water
than what was being traditionally charged by water utilities provided services met their specific
requirements in terms of service reliability, quality and access. These insights have provided new
institutional design options for what were earlier termed as"non-viable" water supply systems. The project
design has built flexibility during planning and implementation, so that lessons learned are fed back in
succeeding phases of the project to alter or modify project rules that are not working. Key economic,
financial, organizational and technological rules will be defined during the appraisal process through the
lessons learned from 12 subproject preparation activities. Project implementation will continue monitoring
whichi of the rules worked and which did not work, and thus continually fine-tune the project design during
the implementation of these subpr ojects.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Two of the primary platforms of government policy is to provide basic urban services to all city and town
residents in the Philippines, and to build capacity in LGU administrations, so that decisions concerning
services in a town are taken locally by the Mayor and Town Councils. The project development objectives,
therefore, is fully consistent with the national government's interest in planning and management of local
civic services through local institutions. The speed with which the national governmnent departments,
particularly DILG, has mobilized its staff and expedited project preparation attests the national government
comilmitimienit to the project. The borrower, Development Bank of the Philippines, is also, as a part of its
corporate mandate, interested in developing the LGU market for environmental-related investments.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank is assisting the Government implement two such innovative demand-driven project in the
Philippines through this project and the Water Districts Development Project. The value added by the Bank
involvemenit is the global experience and multi-disciplinary support it brings at both the project design and
implemenitation phases. There is also value added to the Bank's own learning experience of implementing a
flexible project design.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$ million. ERR = 21.26 %
Cost Effectiveness Analysis
o Otler
The major benefits of this project are improved water services to beneficiaries of LGU systems. These
benefits are direct user benefits from water consumed and consumer surplus for users who now use less
effective and more costly alternatives (such as buying water from vendors, relying on dugwells, rivers etc.).
- 11 -



The project offers improvements to LGUs who have expressed a willingness to participate and the
improvements scaled to a level of service and a tariff which have been agreed with the beneficiaries. Thus,
it is highly probable that user benefits calculated on the basis of expected revenues will be realized. In the
initial batch of 12 towns in this phased project, the average economic internal rate of return based on
conservative assumptions is 21.3 percent. The potential cost savings are also substantial and would raise
the expected economic rate of return even higher. The results are robust since thev link agreed user
willingness to pay and cost of chosen technical solutions and as shown by sensitivity tests of possible
reductions in revenue and increases in cost. Further information is provided in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):   NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
In the area of finance the project will aim to: (i) ensure financially viable systems through full recovery of
both capital, and operating and maintenance costs; and (ii) strengthen prospects for commercial operations
by broadening private sector participation in the financing and management of the water utilities. A
methodology, utilizing a fully integrated long-term financial planning model, was developed for evaluating
the borrowing capacities of the first 12 and subsequent generations of sub-projects. This involved three
steps. First, a preliminary financial assessment was taken of each participating LGU to determine a total
S-year investment envelope for which a portion of which would be earmarked for water projects. Second, a
total project budget ceiling was derived that would fit well within an affordability criteria of the finances of
that LGU. Finally, tariff levels were derived based on a uniform formula whichi ensured full recovery of all
capital and operating cost plus allow for a nominal return on the capital invested.
The tariff levels proposed are adequate to assure an adequate rate of return for a private operator interested
in bidding for a long term affermage or lease contract. By the end of APLI, the project experience is
expected to provide a more complete "road map" for private sector participants in water supply production
and distribution. This should enable, by the end of APL2 for the program to more actively pursue the idea
of attracting private financing into the sector.
At present many obstacles still exist for private banks to actively engage in extending credit to LGUs. On
the one hanid, domestic financing in long-term maturities are extremely scarce. Long term maturities in the
private sector range between four to five years with a maximum of only seven years. However, recent
developments for bridging the gap that currently exists in this market between the LGUs and private banks
are extremely promising, as the banking community has begun to recognize the potential market in LGU
lending. Whereas, just less than a year ago private banks often shunned the idea of lending to LGUs, now
the focus is more on working out the mechanics by which this could be done. A private LGU credit
guarantee facility has already been established to enable private banks to begini tapping this market. In
order to complement this facility, an LGU credit rating system is being developed in the Philippines.
Efforts are also under way to reform the accounting standards and reporting systems, so that the entire
finanlcial community can understand LGU financial management systems better.
The project will support these initiatives in the third APL project, when the DBPs financing facility w,..
converted to a wholesale operation involving private banks in lending to LGUs for the water intrastructure
proiects. Such an operation is essential for achieving the high volume target of facilitating the
participation of 250 LGUs from the program by 2007.
- 12 -



Fiscal Impact:
The counterpart funding will be provided by LGUs from their internally generated revenues and Internal
Revenue Allocations (IRAs). Hence there will be no fiscal impact at the national level. All participating
LGUs have signaled their interest in encouraging the constructed facilities to be leased out to the private
sector. In subprojects where the facilities are successfully bidded out, the affernage fees are expected to
fully amortize the loans. Annex 4 provides a summary of the fiscal impacts in the LGUs appraised for the
project.
3. Technical:
The project will finance civil works and equipment for improved water supplies for about thirty five small
towns in the Philippines. It will also finance the construction of on-site sanitation and micro-drainage
system in participating towns to mitigate some minimum negative environment impacts that might result
from the increase of wastewater. Detailed engineering designs have been completed for twelve towns
selected for Phase 1. These studies have been prepared with assistance of a reputed local consultant in
collaboration with DILG, and have been reviewed by the Bank team. Based on this experience, a technical
memorandum has been prepared, which includes technical design standards based on proven local and
internationial experience. Innovative approaches that have been introduced for techilical and practical
reasons have been flagged for monitoring during implementation.
In order to enhance the prospects of efficiency and sustainability of investments, selection of participating
towns has been demand-driven, entailing intensive and iterative consultations with households, communities
and dialogue with legislative and administrative branches of the LGUs. For those towns where demand has
been expressed at all the three levels, detailed engineering design was completed for the 12 towns by
September 1. 1998. The drop-out rate during the consultation and dialogue process has been almost 30% of
the towns. However, lessons learned in Phase 1, particularly with regard to the highi drop-out rate, are being
used in planning feasibility studies in the remaining towns in Phase 11 of the project.
During implementation, engineering consultants will assist the local government in the supervision of
construction. For the towns that have made the option for possible private operation, the prospective
private operator will be in charge of the quality control during the construction phase.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The borrower for the investment components of the project will be the
Development Bank of the Philippines, which will on-lend the loan proceeds to participating LGUs. For the
technilcal assistance components of the project, cofinanced by the Nordic Development Facility (NDF) the
borrower will be the Development Bank of the Philippines, which will blend IBRD funds and other
concessionial loans/grants from bilateral assistance. The Development Bank of the Philippines will on-lend
the techinical assistance funds as either soft loans or a fee to participating LGUs and Water Districts under
the overall supervision of the Technical Working Committee A credit agreement has been signed between
the DBP and NDF in this regard.
b. Project management: Project management will be the responsibility of the Development Bank of
the Philippinies, which has established a Project Management Office (DBP-PMO) to administer the project.
As the project is the first APL of three IBRD-financed loans, the Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Management Office of DILG (WSS-PMO) will continue functioning in its role of "advocacy, brokering and
capacity building", by facilitating and managing the process of preparing new batches of subprojects
according the project rules. Consultants will provide technical assistance, as and when required. For
overall coordination among the components, a Technical Working Committee comprising of the
- 13 -



DBP-PMO, DILG-WSSPMO and DOF has been established. A Memorandum of Agreement defining
respective agency responsibilities has been entered into by these three agencies.
5. Social:
For the twelve LGUs under the first batch, no resettlement is expected. No major social issue has either
been identified in the surveys conducted or raised during the consultation meetings with the LGU
administrations and the barangays (communities). However, Guidelines on Resettlement and
Compensation of Land and Other Assets consistent with Bank policies have been prepared to deal with
land acquisition and other matters which may have a negative social impact in future batches of projects.
The guicdelines provide principles and instructions on: (i) minimizing land acquisition and subsequent
displaceiment; (ii) compensation to all project affected persons including non-title holders; (iii) replacement
of productive assets and amenities; and (iv) provision of rehabilitation measures and transitional
allowances.
More importantly, based on the lessons learned preparing the first phase projects. the guidelines simplify
the process of consultation and the roles and responsibilities of the LGUs, so that while the project design
principles are adhered to, all owners of assets and occupants of land likely to be affected by the proposed
investments are properly consulted before final decisions are taken.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category  - A    B I C
The project is expected to have mainly positive environmental and public health impacts through the
provision of affordable clean and more reliable individual water supply connectionis to residents of small
towins in the project LGUs. There is potential for some negative impacts, mainly resulting from the
wastewater which needs to be disposed off in these small urban areas without a piped sewerage system.
However. thlese potential negative impacts can be mitigated and managed througih actions by the public
authorities and the individual households concerned.
Environmilenital assessments (EA) have been prepared by consultants for eachi of the first batch of LGUs,
together vith environmental management plans (EMP) which focus on individual sustainable on-site
sanitation solutions plus mitigative actions by LGUs (available in project files for the EA and EMP for the
first batchi).
In order to guide the preparation of EAs and EMPs for subsequent batches of LGUs, an operational
manual for EA has also been developed. The emphasis of the EA process for this project is less on the
assessmenit of the obvious, generic impacts but more on their ongoing managemenlt, including the protection
of the raw water sources (mainly groundwater). These EA procedures are in compliance with Philippines
regulations for sanitation and environmental protection which are consistent with the Banks OD 4.01
(Enviroilromental Assessment).
Mitigzative actions will be supported through capacity building, in particular traininig of local healtil officers
and sanitation inspectors. The National Government will provide adequate finds for local capacity
building. the project envisages that LGUs may on-lend a portion of their subloans to individual households
for on-site sanitation improvements, based on full cost recovery. The NDF cofinanicing is expected to build
municipal capacity for sound environmental management. A part of the cofinanicinig will also prepare
future batches of sewerage projects in LGUs facing the most severe problems of municipal pollution.
- 14 -



7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence: if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The participatory approach adopted by this project is expected to expose the potential negative
environmental impacts and to raise awareness of the LGUs and the communities for the need for good
environmental management.
During the project preparation stage, five significant activities demonstrated the characteristics of a
demand-oriented participatory project. These were:
1. A letter of intent signed by the Municipal Mayor and in some municipalities. a Sangguniang Bayan
(Municipal Council) Resolution were submitted to the Department of Interior and Local Government
(DILG) signifying the interest of the municipal LGU in participating in the proposed project;
2. Results of the feasibility study and socio-economic surveys i.e. technical options, management options,
financial assessment and cost recovery options were presented to the Municipal Mayors and Sangguniang
Bayan for assessment of LGU's capacity and decision-making in assuming the responsibilities required by
the Project. The agreements and decisions made among the members of the Municipal Council was
embodied in a SB Resolution.
3. The content of the SB Resolution are: (i) the willingness of the municipal LGU to delegate the
day-to-day management of the water utilities through supervision contracts to professional water
management organizations; (ii) to adopt water tariff rates to levels that will ensure system sustainability;
(iii) to ulidertake specific investments to ensure that there are no adverse environimlental impacts from
augmented water supply; (iv) to borrow from a recommended government finanlcinig institution (GFI) on
terms and conditions specified by the national government; and (v) that 25% of the total project cost will be
provided by the local government unit as their counterpart contribution.
4. The provisions of the SB Resolution were presented and discussed in a series of meetings with the
barangays (village) that will be served by the project. The result of the barangay meetings is the signing
of the Willingness-to-Connect (WTC) form by individual households. The WTC is a clear measure of
demand at the household/community level. At least 60% of the target households to be served by the water
supply project should sign and submit this document so that the project will proceed to implementation. If
a numliber below 60% is reached, the project will not be implemented even if there is a demand at the LGU
level. The Project believes that demand should be demonstrated at both LGUs and communities levels
since the responsibilities of making the Project work also belong to both LGU3 and communities. With the
12 'nmnlicipalities for the first batch, a demand between 65-70% WTC has been generated.
5. The resu lts of the barangay meetings, WTC and the detailed engineering design were presented to the
Mavor and the Sangguniang Bayan. This led to the adoption of the final SB resolution designating
authority to the Municipal Mayor to sign a subsidiary loan agreement in behalf of the municipality with the
DBP after the loan is approved by the World Bank.
All of the 5 activities mentioned above underwent an iterative process of (i) information dissemination; (ii)
discussions: (iii) decision-making; and (iv) commitment and responsibility, summarizes the participatory
process adopted by the project team.
- 15 -



b. Other key stakeholders:
During the process of community participation, key stakeholders at the community level, including NGOs,
religious organizations and cultural organizations are consulted. It is also expected that this involvement
will be continued after project implementation, in order to ensure that: (i) the water supply services are
sustained by the community maintaining oversight over the system operator, and (ii) adequate information
dissemination takes place so that communities access the sanitation facility for household sanitation
improvements.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of project benefits depend on four key factors, as specified in the Operational Manual:
(i) the full participation and ownership of stakeholders in the design, implementation and operation of the
project:
(ii) clarity in fund channeling rules, particularly with regard to LGU commitments, contributions, and
responsibillities of LGUs, communities and households;
(iii) flexibility in engineering design in order to meet specific service requirements of communities in a
sustainable manner, and
(iv) outsourcing of operations and maintenance responsibilities to the private sector, as much as possible
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Newly electei LGU administrations will        S         I. Sign-off from at least 60 per cent of
remain committed to agreements between                  community was required as evidence of
the project and communities                             stakeholder commitment to the project
2. Repeated consultations with stakeholders will
be ensured through the project cycle
3. The Subloan Agreements and lease contracts
will address mitigation of political risks
Successor LGU administrations will remain      H         I. Contracts with operators will include
committed to maintaining agreements with                 substantial penalties to be recovered from an
regard to tariffs and honoring long-term                escrow account maintained by the DBP
contr-acts with the private sector for
operations and maintenance.
Participating LGUs will agree to the           H        2. Contracts will have duration of at least fifteen
provisions of the lease contract particularly           years in order to insure the operator from
the setting up of an escrow account at the               political cycles.
DBP and will agree to allocate the needed
resources. This was not earlier considered
in the 12 pilot towns.
Lessons leairned from APL process generate    M          Regular consultative meetings will be held to
support in national government and among                share experiences and work out consensus
other donors                                            among sector agencies, government departments
and donors
- 16 -



From Components to Outputs
DBP-PMO is established                       N         A condition for Board Presentation
DBP-PMO and DILG work effectively in         M         Technical Working Committee to oversee the
preparing second batch for implementation              project work already established by the GOP
in 1999
Cofinancing of technical assistance is       M         Cofinancing arrangements with the NDF is a
available on time                                      condition for Board Presentation
Overall Risk Rating                           S        The Adaptable Program instrument allows the
Bank and the national government test out
methodologies and proto-type design before
scaling up. The returns from successful
implementation are very high
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
A potential area of controversy is that the Mayors and LGU residents might object to project beneficiaries
paying much higher water tariffs compared to the more well-off residents of neighboring water districts,
who benefit from existing policies of cross-subsidization by industrial/commercial consumers and local
system economies of scale. The controversy will subside if the private sector is able to deliver services
efficiently, so that consumers get value for the money they pay.
Another potential area of controversy is that affermage contracts may eventually lead to operators
negotiatinig exclusive rights to develop other raw water sources in the LGU. Greater coordination and
consistency between the water resource management aspect and water supply management aspect is
urgently necessary, so that pricing of raw water reflects its opportunity costs. This is an issue for the
national government agencies and the Bank project teams to monitor closely, as a part of the on-going
policy dialogue.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Conditionis for Negotiations were:
I. A draft policy framework for land acquisition and resettlement has been prepared, and will be confirmed
during negotiatior. between the Bank and the Development Bank of the Philippines
2. LGUs will have to pass a Municipal Council Resolution signaling their desire to participate in the
project before negotiations
3. The Resolution will confirm the LGU's acceptance of the condition that (a) the water utility will be
separated from other municipal departments, and that it will begin functioning as an organization
indepenidenit of municipal budgetary and accounting system, (b) tariffs will be charged on the basis of at the
minimtim covering operations and maintenance costs, and (c) outsourcing of operational functions would
be uiidertaken as much as practicable.
4. Thie GOP will establish a Technical Working Committee at the national level to oversee project
implementation before negotiations.
5. The Techinical Working Committee will adopt the Project Operational Manual.
6. Finalization of a Letter of Sector Development Policy by the Government of the Philippines before
negotiations.
- 17-



Conditions for Board Presentation are:
1. The Government of the Philippines will approve the Credit Agreement with the Nordic Development
Fund for cofimancing the technical assistance aspects.
2. The Government of the Philippines approves the offer of European Union Grant assistance for the
proposed Water Utilities Private Sector Participation Facility.
3. The Development Bank of the Philippines will establish a fully functioning Project Management Office
(DBP-PMO)
Condition for Effectiveness:
1. Subloan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Development Bank of the Philippines and at
least ten participating LGUs.
2. The Grant Agreernent has been executed between the Republic of the Philippines and the European
Union, in order to operationalize the Water Utilities Private Sector Participation Facility.
3. The Loan Agreement has been executed between the Nordic Development Fund and the Development
Bank of the Philippines.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
I. Subsidiary Loan Agreements are finalized between the DBP and each participating LGU
2. Each parlticipating LGU establishes a Project Management Unit
3. DBP shall] furnish to the Bank (i) semi-annual reports on or about April 30 and October 31 of each year
commencing April 30, 1999, and (ii) a mid-term report on or about June 30, 2000.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
LI 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
71 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Vija Jagannatha                Mhav Varma                           Vinay /   aa
Team Lsader                    U' Sector MwiageulDlr.ctor           Country ManageriDirecto/
-18-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project
Key Perfonnance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Living standards in Philippine Improving trends in public    1. National Policy documents  1. Government adherence to
towns and cities improved.   health and urban          on urban service provisioning  its strategy, as stated in the
environmental indicators by   and living standards.   NEDA Board Resolutions,
2020:                      2. World Development Report remains committed
1. 90% of LGU residents    and other internationally
receive reliable water supply,  compiled documents on basic
at least 16 hours a day.   urban service provisioning.
2. 90% of urban population    3. Benchmark Philippines
has access to safe drinking    sector performance and
water.                     compare to other developing
3. In the 20 largest cities  countries.
outside Manila 80% of
wastewater is collected and
treated.
19-



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Program PUrposet            End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:            (from Purpose to Goal)
Reliable ancl sustainable water Program implementation  NEDA and DILG monitor and 1. Lessons learned from the
and sanitation services     strategy fully integrated into   evaluate policy lessons for    APL process are going to
provided by commercially    the national policy by 2007:   the sector through:      generate support in the
operated enterprises to                                                             national government, and
secondary cities and towns of  1. The program design is  1. NEDA-sponsored national  among other major donors.
the Philippines.            replicated through a number   policy documents
of successor projects by the
NG and ODA financing. At
least one successor projects by
OECF or ADB.
Phase I (APL I): Proto-typing  2. At least $ 25 million of PFI 2. Sector Reports from World
and testing a demand-based   investments by the end of  Bank and other donors
framework, that provides    APL3.                       3. Program Completion
participating LGUs with     3. Subsidies from the national Report
sustained water and sanitation government to the water sector
services, ancl provides     are reduced to zero for level
incentives for private sector   Ill systems (i.e. systems with
participation.              house connections).
Phase 11 (APL2): Based on the 4. PSP arrangements take
lessons learned from APLI,   place in at least 50% of the
adjusting and modifying the   water utilities receiving
project design, and applying it investments.
to about 100 LGUs in order to
create a sufficiently large
market to attract a PSP-led
water operators industry.
Phase Ill (APL3): APL2      5. Amalgamation of
generates sufficient private    neighboring systems is
sector operator interest to    accomplished wherever a
attract private financing of    cluster of small LGUs access
water supply infrastructure.   project investments.
This would enable a further
scaling up in LGU coverage,  6. Performance indicators of
with the role of DBP        water utilities in the program
changing from a retailer to a  are significantly better than
wholesaler of financing to  LWUA averages: (see
private sector banks interested standard performance
in water supply and sanitation indicators list below).
infrastructure investments.    7. Participating towns provide
at least 16 hours of water
supply a day.
-20 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicatom           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. Provision of improved and  1. 30% of the participating    DILG monitors and evaluates  1. Successor LGU
sustainable access to water    LGUs in the first and second  success in implementing  administrations will remain
supply and sanitation in about batch of APLI successfully    NEDA Board Resolution No.  committed to maintaining
35 pilot project towns.    complete project            4 and 6 with assistance from   agreements with regard to
implementation (i.e. provide  DBP-PMO through:        tariffs and honoring long-term
the planned quality water    -Semi-annual progress reports contracts with the private
supply to communities).     Supervision mission reports  sector for operations and
Program mid-term Reviews   maintenance
2. One third of those LGUs    Consumer surveys and public
contract with the private  performance audits
sector to operate
and maintain the newly
constructed systems.
Impact indicators of APLI in
participating LGUs in Year
2002:
Water Supply component (see
project documents per details)
- Increase in water supply in
cu. meters (target vs. actual)
Service coverage increase
(target vs. actual)
- Service reliability (target vs.
actual)
- Financial ratios of LGU
water utilities
- Unit price of vended water
Sanitation component
- On-site systems (target vs.
actual)'
-21 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output fromi each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Water supply systems in   1.1 Ten systems are completed DBP-PMO and DILG      1. Newly elected LGU
project towns constructed.    and operational according to  through:             administrations will remain
approved design specifications Semi-annual progress reports committed to agreements
2. Project Operational     by negotiation.            Supervision mission reports  between the project and
Manuals designed and                                  Evaluation mission reports   communities;
approved                   2.Project Management Office                           2. IRA allocations to LGUs
in DBP operational by Board                           will continue
Presentation.
3. NDF Credit Agreement is
signed by the DBP by Board
Presentation
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
(Phase I)                  Target        Actual       DBP-PMO and DILG           1. DBP-PMO is established at
$0.40         $0.40       through:                    by Board presentation
Completion of feasibility  $0.10                      Semi-annual progress reports 2. DBP-PMO and DILG work
studies in Batch I towns   $0.70                      -Supervision mission reports  effectively in preparing second
Finalization of PSP contracts  $22.63                 -Project Implementation Plan  batch for implementation in
Completion of feasibility  $1.55                                                 1999
studies in Batch 2 towns   $0.78                                                 3. Co-financing of technical
Investments in water supply   $1.90                                              assistance is available on time
Sanitation
Drainage
Technical assistance for water
supply, sanitation and
drainage
- 22 -



Annex 2: Project Description
LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$23.3 million
Water Supply
This component will finance civil works, equipment and supervision for improved water supply systems for
small towns that have traditionally been viewed as having"non-viable" and poorly functioning water
utilities normally managed by municipal agencies themselves. Selection of project towns and technical
options to be used in them have been demand driven, using consultations at housellold, community
(Barangay), and local government levels, based on the project team's assessment of borrowing capacity
using the GOP guidelines and a long-term financial planning model developed for this purpose. This
component will finance the construction of new systems as well as the rehabilitation and expansion of
existilg systems. The constructed systems will be operated and managed, as far as practicable through
leasing (affermage) and management contracts with private sector operators. Otherwise, the LGU
concerned shall create an independent water utility duly registered under Philippine laws.
Project Component 2 - US$1.6 million
Sanitation .Program
This component will finance physical improvements in household toilets, on-site sanitation facilities,
including soakaway pits for septic tank effluents or the disposal of wastewater flows arising from
augmented water supplies hygiene education. Funds will be on-lent to the LGUs and would be
administered by the water supply operators and recovered from the water bills on an installment basis over
five years. Selection of beneficiaries will be demand driven and on the basis of first come first served.
Project Component 3 - USS 0.8 million
Urban Drainage Program
This component will finance investmentsand consultant services in micro-drainage infrastructure. Selection
of townis for this component will be demand driven except where it would be encouraged to mitigate
adverse impacts of the augmented water supplies.
Project Component 4 - US$1.5 million
Water Utilities Private Sector Participation Facility: A number of LGUs and Water Districts have been
receiving proposals from the private sector for participation in their operations, most frequently through
unsolicited offers for BOT (build, operate and transfer). Experience from recent water utility privatization
in the Philippines has shown that evaluation of such proposals is highly complex and procedures
cumbersome enough to induce the spread of non-competitive alternatives in the market. This Facility,
whichl will provide concessional TA from the EU ($ 1.5 million to be recovered through a success fee), will
be throughl the creation of a revolving pre-investment fund. The Facility will finance a technical assistance
programii to help LGUs and Water Districts prepare Information Memoranda as a basis of bidding by
private operators, evaluate such proposals, and identify the most appropriate forn of more competitive
private sector involvement. EU cofinancing will finance preparatory work, such as feasibility studies,
financial analysis and legal options studies leading up to the finalization of an Information Memorandum.
The componient cost will be recovered through success fees.
-23 -



Project Component 5 - US$2.5 million
Support for Preparation of Next Batches of Projects: This component, which will provide concessional
TA from the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) and other bilateral donors will cofinance this component
through the creation of a revolving fund from which LGUs can access resources for:
(a) Water Supply: Feasibility studies and detailed engineering designs for approximately another 80 towns,
to be selected in a demand-driven way from towns that have confirmed commitment to participate on the
basis of project rules. Several bilateral donors are currently examining these subprojects for possible
funding through grant financing from their respective Consultant Trust Funds and bilateral assistance
prograrms. Hence no separate cost estimate has been included.
(b) Svwerage develoRment in secondary cities: Improvements in water supply and increasing concerns
about the impact of pollution on availability of water and other environmental amenities are increasing the
potential demand for sewerage systems. DENR has identified a list of 16 cities that need substantial
investiments in sewerage to mitigate the adverse impacts of municipal pollution.
Project Component 6 - US$2.0 million
Institutional Capacity Building Program: This component, which will provide technical assistance at
concessional rates will be co-financed by the NDF, and continued into APL2. The cost estimate for APLI
is US$2 million. The Program is designed tostrengthen managerial and technical capacities of
organizations and staff that will be involved in (i) the implementation of the project, (ii) the regulation of
private operators (if applicable), and (iii) assisting LGUs build institutional capacity and appropriate
training programs.
1. Role of Capacity Building Program: The Capacity Building Program will respond to the need for
assistin-g the LGUs to effectively and efficiently carry out their roles and responsibilities as outlined in the
implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of NEDA Board Resolution No. 4 (Series of 1994):
Financing - The LGUs shall be responsible for mobilizing resources to finance water supply
improvements through their own resources, through borrowing or by tapping private sector financing;
Management - LGUs shall adopt commercial principles in the operation and management of water
utilities in order to provide cost-effective and reliable services to consumers whether management of the
system is a direct responsibility of the LGU or is contracted out to the private sector;
Project Planning and Development - LGUs shall be required to prepare and update, on an annual
basis, their sector plans consistent with the National Master Plan for the Sector;
Apiproval and Award of Contracts - The LGUs shall be required to conduct public bidding in
accordance with the provisions of law and shall have the final authority to approve and award contracts
for water supply and sanitation projects within their jurisdictions;
Application for Water Rights - LGUs or concerned water utility shall apply for water rights from the
N\VRB prior to implementing a project that would require extraction of water;
Public Performance Audit - The LGUs shall establish a system of public performance audit for
puIblic and private water utilities focusing on critical performance indicators; and
- 24 -



Formation and Capacity Building of BWSAs/RWSAs - The LGUs are responsible for organizing
and training the BWSAs and RWSAs to operate and manage Level I and 11 water systems, respectively
and for providing assistance in registering the same with the designated registering body.
11. Assistance in improving management of LGU water utilities:The Project envisages two management
options:
*  management by LGU through the setting up of a separate economic enterprise or a water utility
registered as an SEC company, and
*  delegation of system management responsibility to the specialized private sector entities through a
suitably crafted contract that protects the interests of the LGU (which is the borrower of the loan),
consumers (who desire value in terms of services for the money they pay). and the operator (who would
require transparency in price setting and regulatory arrangements) orservice contractors providers
(such as, for billing and collection etc.). In situations where the LGUs decide to set up a separate
economic enterprise, additional technical assistance will be necessary.
III. Training Programs: There will be training needs at the levels of the participating LGUs, as well as at
the national level. The training for LGUs will be categorized into:
(a) General Trainin - This will involve the implementation of training program for all participating LGUs
covering the following subjects:
*  Water Utility - LGU Roles, Responsibilities, Performance Monitoring and Regulatory protocols
* Lease or Management Contract Supervision
* LGU Financial Planning and Investment Management
* Implementing the Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan
* Public Performance Audit
* Supervision of sanitation investments by households
(b) Specific Trainin: This will cover training to suit the public managed water utilities (i.e. under LGU
Management)
*  Water System Management - Operations and Maintenance Protocols for Water Supply production,
transmission and distribution systems
*  Development of procedures for managing water utilities on the basis of commercial principles - Billing,
Collection protocols
*  Efficient administration of contracts with service providers, including development of standard
contracting forms
*  Bookkeeping and Financial Management procedures
IV. Equipment and Other Resources: Capacity building will also include the provision of logistical support
and equipment as well. The following equipment are proposed to be financed as a part of the capacity
building component of the Project:
*  Provision of computers and equipment for the Public Water Utilities under LGUs Management;
*  Provision of computers and two cars for DILG - PMO monitoring and supervision;
*  Printing, reproduction and dissemination of pertinent literature reference materials, documents, kits,
hanidbooks; and
*  Preparing of Newsletter and other information dissemination type of activities to sharing the best
- 25 -



practices.
In order to maintain consistency and focus with the APL Program objectives, an annual institutional
capacity building program review will be conducted jointly between the national government, represented
by the Technical Working Committee, the NDF and the World Bank.
Second LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project (APL2)
Likely conditions to Proceed for APL2: To be met before conmmitment of APL2:
* Devolution of operation, management, and revenue collection responsibilities under
long-term conmmercial arrangements in 12 LGUs;
. Project-funded system improvements fully operational in 10 LGUs
APL2 Development Objective: Devolve operation and management of water supply and
sanitatilon services to qualifying commercial entities in 80 LGUs, together with continued
improvement in the service delivery and financial sustainability in the participating LGUs
(2001- 2004)
The IBRD-Funded Project (US$60 million) would likely finance : construction of water
supply and sanitation facilities in 80 LGUs throughout the Philippines, focusing on the facilitation
of subregional systems, wider involvement of different forms of private sector participation in
those water utilities, and improved institutional capacity in participating LGUs
Other idonors would likely finance technical assistance under Cofinancing arrangements
(US$ 7 Million): completion of feasibility studies using the LGUUWSP design principles,
continued expansion in the use of the Water Utilities Private Sector Participation Facility,
institutiional capacity building in LGUs, particularly with regard to local environmental
management, financial management and staff training..
Financing by LGUs participating in the Project (US$20 million): This would provide LGU
equity for the project in the form of land acquisition and equity finance from internal resources.
[i~ect  Financing Data (Indicative)         | Processing Time Table (Tentative)
IBRD l,oan:        $60 million              Appraisal          December 1999
Bilateral Cofinancing $7 million            Negotiations       February 2000
LGU Equity         $20 million              RVP Approval       March 2000
Total:             $87 million              Effectiveness      May 2000
Estimaited        FY01         FY02        FY03         FY04
Disbursement
(US$ rnillion)
- 26 -



Annual             10          15          15          20
Cumulative         10         25           40          60
Likely conditions to Proceed for APL3:
* Devolution of operation, management and revenue collection responsibilities under
long-term management contracts and leasing arrangernents in 40 additional LGUs
* Achievement of a working ratio less than 0.50 in at least 80 LGU water utilities receiving
financing from APLs I and 2
* Achievement of at least 16 hours of water per day to connected households in participating
urban areas with completed systems through APLs I and 2 investments
* Average of 80% of consumers satisfied with service performance in participating LGUs
* At least 60% of households in a barangay connected to the water supply system
Third LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project (APL3)
APL3 Development Objective: Devolve operation and management of water supply and
sanitation services to qualifying commercial entities in 130 LGUs, together with continued
improvement in the service delivery and financial sustainability in the participating LGUs, and
graduation of GFIs from retail financing to wholesale fmancing (2003-2007)
The IBRD-Funded Project (US$100 milion) would likely fmance : construction of water
supply and sanitation facilities in 130 LGUs throughout the Philippines. focusing on the
facilitation of subregional systems, wider involvement of different forms of private sector
participation in those water utilities, and improved institutional capacity in participating LGUs
Other Donors would likely finance technical assistance under Cofinancing arrangements
(US$ 3 Million): completion of feasibility studies using the LGUUWSP design principles,
continued expansion in the use of the Water Utilities Private Sector Participation Facility,
institutional capacity building in LGUs, particularly with regard to local environmental
management, financial management and staff training.
Private Financial Institutions (US$20 million) would likely cofinance: construction of water
supply and sanitation facilities in the subregional systems envisaged in the project.
Financing by LGUs participating in the Project (US$13 million): This would provide LGU
equity for the project in the form of land acquisition and equity finance from internal resources.
Project Financing Data (Indicative)         Processing Time Table (Tentative)
IBRD Loan:         $100 million             Appraisal          December 2001
Bilateral Cofinancing $3 million            Negotiations       February 2002
-27 -



Private iFinancing   $20 million                 RVP Approval         March 2002
LGU Equity           $13 mnillion                Effectiveness        May 2002
Total:               $136 million
Estimated           FY03          FY04          FY05           FY06          FY07
Disbursement
(US$ million)
Annual               10           20            20             30             20
Cumulative           10            30           50             80            100
LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNIT URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LGU-UWSSP)
As of October 15, 1998
List of MuniciDalities with Letter of Intent
REGION    PROVINCE                                  MUNICIPALITIES
CAR         Abra                              I    Dolores
Kalinga                           2     Pinukpok
3    Rizal
4     Tabuk
I           Ilocos Norte                      5    Laoag City
6     Pinili
liocos Sur                        7     Sinait
La Union                          8    Rosario
11         Isabela                            9     San Pablo
10   Sto. Tomas
11    Delfin Albano
12   Sta. Maria
13   San Mariano
14   Naguillan
15   San Isidro
Nueva Vizcaya                     16   Ambaguio
17   Bagabag
18   Solano
Quirino                           19   Aglipay
20   Nlagtipunan
III         Pampanga                          21    San Simon
-28 -



IV           Batangas                             22    San Luis
Laguna                              23    Pangil
24    Pila
25    Rizal
Quezon                              26    Sariaya
27    Bordeos
28    Gen. Malvar
29    Mauban
30    Panukulan
31    Patnanungan
32    Pagbilao
33    Palilio
34    Sampaloc
35    Tayabas
36    Infanta
37    Jumalik
38    Real
39    Lucban
Marinduque                          40    Boac
41    Gasan
Oriental Mindoro                    42    San Teodoro
43    Baco
44    Calapan
45    Victoria
46    Bansud
47    Gloria
48    Bongabong
49    Mansalay
50    Calapan
51    Roxas
Palawan                             52    Puerto Princesa City
53    Aborlan
54    Bataraya
55    Brook's Point
56    El Nido
57    Narra
58    Quezon
59    Rizal
60    Roxas
61    San Vicente
62    Taytay
63    Kalayaan
64    Sofronio Espanola
65    Agutaya
66    Araceli
67    Abordo (Linacapan)
68    Busuanga
- 29 -



69    Coron
70    Cuyo
71    Dumaran
72    Cagayancillo
73    Balabac
74    Magsaysay
75    Culion
V            Camarines Sur                         76    Garchitorena
77    Minalabac
78    Gainza
79    Tinambac
80    Bula
Sorsogon                             81    Pilar
VI           Iloilo                                82    Balasan
83    Banate
84    Miagao
85    Batad
Guimaras                             86    Sibunag
Negros Oriental                      87    Bais City
88    Ayungon
89    Bindoy
90    Valencia
91    Guihulngan
92    Vallehermoso
93    Dauin
VIl          Cebu                                  94    Badian
95    Sogod
Bohol                                96    Antequerra
97    Corella
98    Loboc
99    Dimiao
100   Mabini
101   Ubay
102   Duero
Vill         Biliran                               103   Cabugcayan
104   Kawayan
Eastern Samar                        105   Calbayog City
Leyte                                106   Julita
Southern Leyte                        107   San Juan
Western Leyte                         108   Almagro
109   daram
110   Marabut
- 30 -



111   Pagsanghan
112   Paranas
113   San Jorge
114   Sta. Margarita
115   Tagapul-an
116   Talalora
117   Zumarraga
118   Basey
IX           Zamboanga del Sur                      119   Ramon MagsaysaN
120   Midsalip
121   Sominot
122   Titav
123   Tungawan
124   Rosales
125   Vincenso Sagun
126   Margosatubig
127   San Miguel
128   San Pablo
129   Bayog
130   Siay
131   Tabina
132   Labangan
133   Malangan
134   Guipos
135   Pagadian City
136   Ipit
137   Molave
138   Diplahan
X            Bukidnon                               139   Kitaotao
140   Cabanglasan
141   Kadingilan
142   Damulog
143   Dangcagan
144   Pangantacan
145   Manolo Fortich
Misamis Oriental                      146   Salay
147   Talisayan
148   Balingasag
Misamis Occidental                    149   Don Victoriano
Camiguin                              150   Sagav
151   Mahinog
Xl           Davao del Sur                          152   Matanao
153   Sulop
154   Malalag
155   Sta. Maria
156   Padada
157   Hagonoy
158   Kiblawan
- 31 -



Davao del Norte                        159   Kapalong
160   Sto. Tomas
Lanao del Norte                        161   Magsaysay
162   Sapad
163   Sultan naga Dimaporo
164   Maigo
165   Kapatagan
166   Kolambogan
167   Lala
168   Salvador
Xii           North Cotabato                         169   Matalam
170   Magpet
171   Carmen
Sultan Kudarat                         172   Bagumbayan
CARACiA       Agusan del Sur                         173   Trento
174   Veruela
175   Sta. Josefa
176   Loreto
177   Talacogon
Surigao del Norte                      178   Burgos
179   Claver
180   Dapa
181   Sison
182   Taganaan
183   Placer
184   Bakuag
185   Gigaquaet
186   Plaber
187   Tubod
188   Alegria
189   Mainit
190   San Francisco
191   Malimuno
192
Surigao del Sur                        193   Carrascal
194   Lanuza
195   Dinagat
ARMM          Tawi-Tawi                              196   Bongao
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million    US $million    US $million
Water Supply construction                                  10.8           8.6          19.4
Supervision during construction                             0.9                        0.9
Sanitation                                                  1.2                         1.2
Hygiene education for sanitation                            0.2                         0.2
Drainage                                                    0.6                        0.6
Consultant for drainage                                     0.1                         0.1
Total Baseline Cost                                        13.'           8.6          22.4
Physical Contingencies                                     1.3           0.8          2.1
Price Contingencies                                        0.7           0.4          1.1
Total Project Costs            1-'R             9.8          25.6
Front-end fee                      0.2          0.2
Total Financing Required               15.8          10.1         25.9
- 33 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project
Summary of benefits and costs:
The project aims to test a demand-based framework in the provision of water services in about
250 tolwns nationwide which are deemed non-viable systems under existing sector rules. The
iDitial phase to be funded under APLI covers about 35 towns, of which 12 towns have
completed project preparation and involves a total of 31,000 connections. The objective of
the project is to demonstrate that economically and financially viable systems can be built and
operated in these towns by designing technical solutions whose cost can be recovered through
tariffs ithat have been agreed upon with the beneficiaries prior to construction. Subject to
sufficient progress in using the demand-based approach in APL 1, the program would be
scaled -up in APL2 in terms of the number of towns to be covered. In APL2, the target is to
cover an additional 80 towns and in APL3, another 130 towns. Also' in APL 3 it is expected
that government financial institutions (GFIs) would be in a position to wholesale loans and
induce private sector banks to invest in LGU systems, and for these systems to be increasingly
managed and operated by the private sector primarily through lease and concession contracts.
Tlhe assumption for proceeding to APL3 is that economic and financial viability is
demonstrated in the earlier phases.
In this type of a program loan, it is not possible to have a prior estimation of the net present
value or the economic internal rate of return for the whole project. This is because specific
investments in the towns which would choose to participate are subject to negotiations
between prospective beneficiaries and their respective LGU officials and their acceptance of
the project rules regarding loan financing and cost recovery through user payments.
However, the project design provides adequate assurance that technical solutions would be
both economically and financially viable. In particular, the project rules require that tariffs
should at least cover for the operation and maintenance costs and that users of the improved
systems agree to the proposed tariff levels. Nonetheless, since this is a learning-by-doing
project, economic performance would be continually monitored. The framework provides
that the project may be modified as necessary in order to achieve its economic worth.
The LGU systems, which will be largely replaced in this project, perform poorly and usually
for a very limited number of hours. The economic consequences are (1) that the current
systems generate very low levels of direct-user benefits, and (2) people even for those already
connected to the existing system are forced to seek alternative sources of water which are
often expensive, time consuming and unsafe from a health perspective. With the improved
system, many would be able to switch to more or exclusive use of the better and much more
reliable services. They will therefore be able to avoid some of these costs, that is, money, time
and health costs, while generating increased direct-user benefits. With the exception of health
costs which are often difficult to quantify but are nonetheless real costs, the direct-user
benefits, consumer surplus and cost savings would be estimated for the individual subprojects
as these are prepared. In general, it is expected that direct-user benefits would be sufficient to
-34-



economically justify the projects. Considering consumer surplus and cost savings benefits
would substantially increase the economic return of the sub-projects. However, from the
perspective of society, the latter may only be a transfer if users opt to shift their spending from
water to some other commodity or if the improved system results in a loss for the existing
LGU-managed water utility or water vendors. In such a case, there would be no real savings
to society, although a real gain from cost savings would have accrued to the consumers.
On the basis of the initial 12 towns, the required tariffs to fully cover the investment and
operating costs are considerably lower than the costs that users at present incur to get water.
This being the case, it is expected that the consumer surplus and cost savings would be
significant for those who will be served under the improved system and are able to use more
water at a lower price. While it is difficult to estimate the exact consumer surplus without
more information on the shape and elasticity of demand, it is expected that this is positive and
may be substantial.
For the initial 12 towns, the economic internal rate of return was estimated for each
sub-project with the economic benefits comprising of direct user benefits, consumer surplus
and cost savings. For the base case scenario, certain assumptions were adopted meant to
approximate the most likely situation in these towns upon the operation of the improved
systems. It is assumed that per capita water consumption levels would increase gradually
towards full capacity, the reason being that it is possible for users to maintain their current
water sources at least in the initial years of operation of the improved system. It is also
assumed that a demonstration effect would be needed before the full target of served
population is achieved. With these assumptions, the average EIRR for the 12 towns is 21.3
percent (using a discount rate of 15 percent) with direct-use and consumer surplus benefits
only. Additional cost savings benefits would increase ubstantially the EIRR in all the initial 12
towns. Adopting more optimistic assumptions of full capacity in terms of per capita water
consumption levels upon system operation and the target served population would provide a
much higher average EIRR. Also, the EIRR estimates did not include possible consumption
of institutional and commercial/industrial users. On the average, it is estimated that this would
be an additional 15 percent in direct -use benefits. Table 1 presents a summary of the EIRR
estimates for each of the 12 towns under the above assumptions.
From Table 1, a conservative scenario indicates that direct-use benefits, used as a proxy for
revenues, may not be sufficient to reach a positive NPV. Thus, close monitoring is necessary
especially while preparing the next batch of sub-projects. The aim is to ensure that these
systems can be fully financed from the agreed levels of tariffs and that the level of services
provided by the improved systems are both economically and financially viable. However,
with the consideration of consumer surplus and cost savings, all 12 towns in the initial ba ch
are economically viable. The 6 towns in the Isabela cluster were evaluated as a
privately-managed amalgamated system; the rest of the towns were evaluated as individual
publicly-managed systems.
On the whole, the sensitivity analyses show that even with much more conservative
assumptions such as lower consumption levels, lower served population and a higher
-35-



investment cost, the 12 sub-projects are economically viable when direct-use benefits,
consumer surplus and cost-savings are considered.
While there are variable results among the initial 12 towns, the innovations introduced by the
project through rules and incentives in the provision of improved water services is worth
testing. The APL mode under which the project would be funded provide sufficient
safeguards and triggers to indicate the appropriateness of moving forward to the next APLs.
Table I
Summny of Economic Analysis - LGUUWSP
Base Case
Economic Retum t p 5I/o Discount Rate
WI Dirlc4JsU snefl s   WI Dir. Benelts & Cons. uiumus
NPV    EIRR    BCR       NPV      EIRR    BCR
Municipalitv     (p *ml   (e/e.             IP E2oo    (eK)L
Isabela l'rovince
Aurora                   (1,714)   12.18     1.00    (335)   14A.9     1.1
Cabatuan                   (133)   14.86     1.14   5,088    20.09     1.3
Luna                     (1,542)   11.33     0.97    (378)   14.19     1.11
Mallig                   (1,364)   11.64     0.99  (1,748)   10.78    0.94
Quezoni                  (2,042)   12.51     1.02   3,038    18.27     1.3
San Mateo                  776    15.79      1.18   6,795    21.39     1.44
Laguna l'rovince
Magdalena                (8,160)    7.44     0.80  78,359    55.79    4.4
Camarines Sur Province
Camaroan                 (3,361)    8.70     0.81  17,342    34.95    2.8
Bukidnori Province
Baungcn                  (2,298)   11.36     1.01   6,159    21.06     1.5
Kalilangan               (2,576)   11.93     1.02   8,820    21.48     1.5
Lartapan                  4,600    18.56     1.28  25,138    25.60     1.8
Misamis Occidental Province
Sapang Dalaga            (1,163)   11.59     0.98   1,684    18.28     1.3
Average            11.38                     21.26
LGUs are able to participate in this project if they are willing to borrow as opposed to receiving
government grants. This has been done very little by LGUs in the past. It has only become a serious
consideration for LGUs since the recent decentralization of task and revenues. Consequently, they have
incentives to pay attention to costs and the means of repayment. Sir -e user fees are a means of repayment,
they have an incentive to learn more about the willingness-to-pay of users. The users, in turn, have
incentives to make sure that a proposed improvement has value to them equal to or higher than what they
-36-



are willing to pay. Sector technicians in turn need to learn how to operate in an environment of relatively
hard budget constraints, bounded by the LGU's willingness to borrow and the users' willingness to pay. In
this regard, one piece of developmental leanuing has already occurred as participating LGUs in this first
phase have all opted for professional management by private sector operators, who are familiar with
worldng in this kind of environment.
There are, of course, risks in this demand-oriented approach, even though it should lead to substantial
economic and service benefits. Learning is necessary for all parties and it is unrealistic to expect that it
will occur at the same pace for everyone or with uniform depth everywhere. The phased approach to the
project is desirable to mitigate the risks because it offers a means to capture on-going lessons and apply the
lessons learned. In the end, collaborative assessment of benefits and costs by LGUs, city councils, and
users will determine economically viable investments and improvements when given a voluntary
opportunity to participate.
A summary of net fiscal impact is shown in Table 2 below:
T"2
Sumnay of Not Fisa hnpac (NFI)
LGU4kbmn Witer Supply and Santton Pmjcd (LGU4JWSP)
~Jbam         roi          htAu     i  Caban   I Lun              Maih   | San Mab  I_QwtnIL
TO
ine- Mmmn             5,842         502           740          343         337          848           524
-::I,M               11,875         421          1,280         417         407        1,309           621
ToXl        17,717        923          2,020         760          744       2,157          1,145
-fl
investmt             32,532        2,146         3,625       1,489        1,388       3,790          3,323
0UI                   2,520         141           354          129         126          369           201
Totdal      35,052       2,27          3,979        1,598       1,514       4.159          3,524
Foam pumlum
investmnt           (15,192)      (1,001)       (1,692)       (895)       (648)       (1,788)       (1,551
0111                  (1,176)       (68)          (165)        (80)         (59)       (172)          (94
Total      (16,368)     (1.067)       (1,857)       (7)          (707)      (1.940)        (1,645
N" lsa Immpadt       36.401        2.143         4.i42        1.603 _     1.551        4 437         3-024
Laauna Prowl CsalzS                u  nnPoiuMlsainh Oc If
Ibm         Maadsbhns    Caraon         Baunnon    _Lantana_  Kaillbnasn naD
Tin            -                     so                                 - 8 B3   499
0111                  1,436         429          1,155       2,746        1,307         347
Tobl         2,286         509         1,587        2,830       1,910         846
Taf
Investment            3,329        2,091         2,283       5,659        2,981         448
O&M                     294         138           238          293         160           77
Total        3,623       2,229         2,521        5,952       3.141         525
Fonx plmium
Investmnt            (1,554)       (976)        (1,066)      (2,641)     (1,391)       (209)
O011                   (137)        (64)          (111)       (137)        (75)         (38)
Total       (1,691)     (1,040)       (1,177)      (2.778)      (1,466)      (245)
Net Flcl Imoa.                     1.69,         2.931       6,004        3.585       1.126
-37-



Main Assumptions:
Economic Costs. Project investment and recurrent costs are based on 1997 prices. The financial price of
the investment and operation and maintenance costs were converted to their economic prices using the
following assumptions which are based or the NEDA-ICC project evaluation guidelines:
Tariff rate on imported inputs - 30%;
*     Tax on local inputs - 10%;
*     Premium on foreign exchange - 20%; and
*     Shadow rate for unskilled labor - 0.60.
Cost of physical contingency was assumed to be 10 percent of basic construction cost and
land, and the cost of construction supervision, at 4 percent of basic construction cost, land and
physical contingency. For the operation and maintenance costs, it was assumed that 30
percent of the costs of energy, chemicals and maintenance wculd be imported inputs. The
asset life for new/improved system was assumed to be 50 years for both civil works and
equipment.
Econonic Benefits. Project economic benefits consist of (a) direct-use benefits, (b) consumer
surplus, and (c) cost savings. For a privately-managed system, collection efficiency of 97 percent
was assumed and for a publicly-managed system, 90 percent. The estimates did not include
possible consumption of institutional and commercial/industrial users. On the average, it is
estimated that this would be an additional 15 percent of direct-use benefits.
In the estimation of consumer surplus and cost savings, for those consumers who go to nearby rivers and
springs to do their laundry and other needs, the cost attributed to time spent was assumed to be 30 percent
of the estimated per capita income foregone. This translates into the income of about 1.5 to 2 persons in a
household, who are usually the economically active members of the household. Official data on average
household size and minimnum daily wage for each town were also used in the estimation of consumer
surplus and cost savings.
Discount Rate. The rate used in discounting flows to their present value is 15 percent.
Sensitiviity Analyses. Sensitivity of the net present value and economic internal rate of return were
checked against the following scenarios:
Scenario 1: Lower consumption levels
a.    For slow urbanizing towns, consumption levels were assumed to be as follows:
1999-2000    60 lpcd
2001-2003    80 Ipcd
2004- 2010   100 lpcd
-38-



b.     For fast urbanizing towns, consumption levels were assumed to be as follows:
1999-2000    80 lpcd
2001-2010    100 lpcd
Scenario 2: Lower served population
a.     For relatively high results of willingness-to-connect survey (above 80% of target
population), served population was assumed to be as follows as percentage of target:
1999-2000    60%
2001-2010    80%
b.     For relatively low results of willingness-to-connect survey (below 80% of target
population), served population was assumed to be as follows as percentage of target:
1999-2000    40%
2001-2003    60%
2004-2010    80%
Scenario 3: 20% inorease in investment cost
Scenario 4: Combination of Scenarios 1, 2 and 3
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
The average.per capita investment cost was calculated for the 12 towns, about US$ 58.17. The highest per
capita cost calculated was for Caramoan, Camarines Sur, about US$ 104.67 and the lowest calculated was
for Lantapan, Bukidnon, about US$ 34.47. The rage of per capita costs calculated are comparable with
other international projects for the same size of towns.
IIf the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The difference between financial and
economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."
2These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g. unit project costs of alternative
project designs or international standards.
-39-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project
Years Ending
Affordability Analysis for Participating LGUs
The financing rationale for the Water Supply Project suggests a two-phased development wherein, the
LGUs carry the load of financing by assuming the project loans. The affordability analysis has verified
whether the'LGUs have adequate internally available funds in the loan amortization period to fully repay
the loans. Thereafter, wherever possible, the water systems are contracted out through affermageAease
arrangernents to prequalified PSP operators. In situations where PSP operators are available, the latter will
assure the remittances of project revenues sufficient to reimburse the LGUs of their debt servicing needs
arising from the project loans. This also includes the reimbursement of the LGUs' equity contributions.
Recurrfet costs will be the responsibility of the operators.
The cost-sharing nature of the fnancing scheme required an analytical approach which could assess the
borrowing capacity of the LGUs and the financial feasibility of the water supply systems. This is
accomplished by applying an innovative methodology through the use of the LGU Long-term Financial
Planning Model, developed under an earlier project - the Water Districts Development Project This
methodollogy has involved a three-step process. First, a preliminary financial assessment was undertaken
for each of the participating LGUs to determine their 5-year investment envelope (potential) for which a
portion of which would be earmarked for water projects. Second, a total project budget ceiling was derived
that would fit the borrowing capacity of the LGU. Finally, tariff levels were derived based on a uniforn
forrnula that ensures full recovery of capital and recurrent cost plus provision for a nominal return on the
capital invested.
Details of current financial operations and the overall condition of the 12 LGUs are available in project
files. It siuggests that there are potentials to leverage infrastructure investments, although the current
financial performances leave room for considerable improvements.
Based on these data, LGU projected performance was computed for each of the participating LGUs before
the engineering feasibility studies. The projected performance took into account a number of important
financial management parameters which clearly demonstrate the ability of each LGU to undertake the
proposed water supply investments on financial grounds. These have formed the basis of estimating the
budget envelopes available with each participating LGU. Discussions with Mayors, Municipal Councils
and communities on affordability and tariffs were based on these estimates of affordability.
Financing Plan for LGUs Participating in Phase I:
-40-



LGU-IWSP
Prjtec Financing Plan (1998-1999) in US$ milliors
Aurora, Isabela               1998    1999   2000    2001   Total
Financing Requirements
Inrestment Prgram          -      0.400    -       -      0.400
Capitalized Interest        -     0.029   0.062   0.071   0.162
Total                   -     0.429   0.062   0.071   0.562
Sources of Funds
Development Bank of t e Phil.  -  0.386   0.056   0.064   0.505
Irtemal Sources            -      0.043   0.006   0.007   0.056
Total                   -     0.429   0.062   0.071   0.562
Cabatuan, Isabeia
Financing Requiremeni
Investment Program         -      0.640    -       -      0.640
Capitalized Interest       -      0.046   0.099   0.114   0.259
Total                   -     0.686   0.099   0.114   0.899
Sources of Funds
Development Bank of the Phil.    -  0.618   0.089   0.102   0.809
Intemal Sources             -     0.069   0.010   0.011   0.090
Total                   -     0.686   0.099   0.114   0.899
Luna, Isabela
Financing Requiremens
Investment Program          -     0.273    -        -     0.273
Capitalized Interest        -     0.020   0.042   0.049   0.111
Total                   -     0.293   0.042   0.049   0.384
Sources of Funds
Development Bank of the Phil.  -  0.264   0.038   0.044   0.346
Intemal Sources            -      0.029   0.004   0.005   0.038
Total                   -     0.293   0.042   0.049   0.384
-41 -



Malig, lsabela
Fnncirirg Requirments
Irnestnot Program           -     0.263     -       -      0.263
Capitalized Ineest          -     0.019   0.041   0.047   0.106
Total                         0.282   0.041   0.047   0.369
Soumes of Funds
Development Bank of the Phil.  -  0.253   0.037   0.042   0.332
rItemal Soures              -     0.028   0.004   0.005   0.037
Total                   -     0.282   0.041   0.047   0.369
Quezon, Isabela
Financing Requirements
Inmestment Program          -     0.535     -       -     0.535
Caipialized Interest        -     0.039   0.083   0.095   0.217
TOWa                    -     0.574   0.083   0.095   0.752
Source; of Funds
Development Bank of the Phil.  -  0.516   0.075   0.086   0.677
Intiemal Souroes            -     0.057   0.008   0.010   0.075
Total                   -     0.574   0.083   0.095   0.752
San Maiteo, Isabela
Finandng Requirements
Investment Program                0.694     -       -     0.694
Capitalized Interest        -     0.050   0.108   0.123   0.281
Total                   -     0.744   0.108   0.123   0.976
Souroes of Funds
Dev/elopment Bank of the Phil.  -  0.670   0.097   0.111   0.878
Internal Sources            -     0.074   0.011   0.012   0.098
Total                   -     0.744   0.108   0.123   0.976
-42-



Magdalena, Laguna
Firinding RequirementS
Investnent Program          -     0.642     -       -     0.642
Capitalized Interest        -     0.038   0.081   0.091   0.210
Total                   -     0.680   0.081   0.091   0.852
Sources of Funds
Devebpment Bank of the Phil.  -   0.510   0.061   0.068   0.639
Internal Sourmes            -     0.170   0.020   0.023   0.213
Total                   -     0.680   0.081   0.091   0.852
Caramoan, Camarnes Sur
Financing Requirements
Investment Program          -     0.370     -       -     0.370
Capitalized Interest        -     0.027   0.057   0.066   0.150
Total                   -     0.397   0.057   0.066   0.520
Sources of Funds
Development Bank of the Phil.  -  0.357   0.052   0.059   0.468
Internal Sources            -     0.040   0.006   0.007   0.052
Total                   -     0.397   0.057   0.066   0.520
Baungon, Bukidnon
Financing Requirements
Investment Program          -     0.390     -       -     0.390
Capitalized Interest        -     0.028   0.061   0.069   0.158
Total                   -     OA19   0.061   0.069   0.549
Sources of Funds
Development Bank of the Phil.  -  0.377   0.055   0.062   0.494
Intemal Sources             -     0.042   0.006   0.007   0.055
Total                   -     0.419   0.061   0.069   0.549
-43-



KalirngaR Buliddnon
Financing ReqLmmernets
lrestment PmgramT           -     0.526     -       -     0.526
Citalized IntWest           -     0.038   0.082   0.094   0.214
Toata                   -     0.564   0.082   0.094   0.739
Sources of Funds
WwdeweImt Bank of the Phil.  -    0.508   0.074   0.084   0.665
Intenal Sources             -     0.056   0.008   0.009   0.074
Total                   -     0.564   0.082   0.094   0.739
Lantapan, Bukidnon
Financing Requirements
Invesbnent Program          -     0.792     -   .  -      0.792
Cpitalzed Interest          -     0.057   0.117   0.123   0.298
Total                   -     0.849   0.117   0.123   1.089
Sources of Funds
DevelcpmentBankoftePhil.    -     0.764   0.106   0.111   0.980
Internal Sources            -     0.085   0.012   0.012   0.109
Total                   -     0.849   0.117   0.123   1.089
Sapang DaJaga, Misamis Occ.
Financirg Requirements
Investment Program          -     0.213     -       -     0.213
C-pibalized Interest        -     0.015   0.033   0.038   0.086
Total                   -     0.228   0.033   0.038   0.299
Sources; of Funds
Develonment Bark of the Phil.  -  0.205   0.030   0.034   0.269
Internal Sources            -     0.023   0.003   0.004   0.030
Total                   -     0.228   0.033   0.038   0.299
-44-



Total
Financing Requirements
Investment Program          -     5.737     -        -     5.737     72%
Capitalized Interest        -     0.407   0.867   0.979   2.252      28%
Total                   -      6.144   0.867   0.979   7.990    100%
Sources of Funds
Development Bank of the Phil.  -  5.428   0.768   0.867   7.063      88%
Intemal Sources             -     0.716   0.099   0.112   0.927      12%
Total                   -      6.144   0.867   0.979   7.990    100%
-45-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project
Procurement
Procurement arrangements described below is for the Bank-funded parts of the project. Separate
arranganents for cofmanced parts are being developed by the Government of Philippines and the
Development Bank of the Philippines with the Nordic Developmen-t Fund and the European Union for the
Institutional Capacity Building Program and the Water Utilities Private Sector Participation Facility
respectively.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procuremnent of works and consultant services funded wholly or partly by Bank Loan will be carried out in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines ("Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" of January 1995 revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 and the "Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997 revised in
September 1997). Project Management Office of the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP-PMO)
assisted by consultants will supervise procurements of works and consultant services for each LGU's
sub-project. The Technical Working Committee (DBP, DILG and DOF) will implement or supervise p
rocurements of private sector participation (PSP) operators to operate and maintain constructed water
supply s,ystems under an affermage contract arrangement. Project cost by procurement arrangement is
presentedi in Table A.
Civil works would include construction and rehabilitation of water supply systems, sanitation and drainage
infrastructure involving sub-project of LGUs. These are small infrastructure contracts to be constructed in
participating LGUs with a wide geographically spread through out the Philippine islands. While foreign
bidders would be allowed to bij, if interested, due to size and location, it is expected that these contracts
would not attract them. Works for the construction of the water supply systems, which will include
providing and installing equipment, one for each city, will be procured as follows:
a) individual civil works contracts estimated to exceed US $ 50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate
amount not exceeding US $22.2 million equivalent will be procured under National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. A procurement side letter wiil be issued by the
Government detailing the procedurec under local rules that are not acceptable to the Bank, and
vwhich will not be followed under this Loan. The project Operational Manual includes sample
bidding documents and procedures (standard NCB procedures customized for the project in
advertising, preparing tender documents, opening bids, evaluating bids and preparing evaluation
report, and awarding contract) in compliance with Bank procurement guidelines and specifically
designed for this type of infrastructure contract. DBP will include these procedures and the
obligation of using the sample bidding documents as a conditionality in the Subtloan Agreements to
be signed with the LGUs; and
b) individual civil works contract estimated to cost less than US $50,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount of US $2.1 million equivalent will be procured through simplified procurement
procedures similar to national shopping. The procedure will apply government procedures by
-46-



comparing at least three price quotations from qualified contractors. Participation of
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) would be acceptable, if they are qualified. The project
operational manual will include sample shopping documents in compliance with Bank procurement
guidelines and specifically designed for this type of procurement.
Consultant services, estimated at US$1.38 million will be needed to support project implementation. Of
this, US$1.0 million will be financed the construction supervision consultant who will assist the PMO in
project implementation and the remaining, US$0.40 million will be needed for individual specialists to
support the LGUs staff in implementing the Hygiene Education for Sanitation and Drainage components.
The terms of reference for evaluating proposals will be developed by DBP, with technical assistance from
the Bank.
Procurement Manazement: All civil works procurement for the implementation of subprojects, financed
by the loan/equity mix, will be undertaken by participating LGUs and supervised by DBP-PMO and
DILG-PMO. Each LGU shall establish a bidding committee with, at least the third highest ranking official
of the municipality as a Chairman. The procuremnent lead time as specified in Administrative Order No.
129 shall be observed. However, as most of the participating LGUs lacks the capacity to handle
procurement under internationally funded project, DBP-PMO will provide technical assistance through
consultants to guide them throughout the procurement process until contract award.
The project will involve the selection of private sector participating (PSP) operators to supervise, operate,
and maintain constructed water supply systems. This selection will be handled by a selection committee
established by the concerned LGUIs under procedures agreed with the borrower. Preparation of the tender
document will be the responsibility of the DILG. The terms of reference for evaluating proposals are being
developed with technical assistance from the Bank as a part of project preparation, while future technical
assistance will be financed by the grant from the Euronean Union. This process is being overseen by the
Project's Technical Working Conmnittee consisting of DOF, DBP and DILG.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All civil works contracts procured according to NCB with a value of at least US$ 300,000 equivalent each
and the first five (5) civil works contracts per year regardless of amount, up to an aggregate of $ 21 million
equivalent, will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Prior review of civil works include bidding
documents, evaluation reports and draft contracts accounting to about 73% of the total amount of works
contracts. Prior Bank review would also be required for contracts of individual consultants estimated to
cost at least US$ 50,000 equivalent and contracts of firns estimated to cost at least US$ 100,000 and
estimated to total US$ 1.20 million. Prior review procedures will apply regardless of the value of
consultants' contracts with respect to draft letters of invitation and contracts, terms of reference, sole source
selection, qualification criteria, evaluation reports, award proposals and final contracts when substantial
differences to original draft are made. For other contracts of works and goods not subjected to prior review,
the Bank will review them on a random sample basis, one out of five contracts, after they have been
awarded.
Procurement Implementation Schedule: Phase I of the project will involve civil works for twelve LGUs
with approved project designs through the development and consolidation of the project implementation
plan (Barangay Action Plans). For these towns, feasibility studies and detailed engineering designs were
completed by negotiations. Implementation of procurement activities will commence upon negotiations
according to Bank's procurement guidelines (January 1995 revised September 1997). Phase II of the
project is expected to involve an additional 27 towns, for which construction would start by 2000. To
-47-



expedite project implementation activities, flBP will create the project management office (DBP-PMO) by
loan negotiations. The DBP-PMO will be guided by the Project Implementation Plan, which already has
guidelines on how technical, financial, economic and institutional appraisal of subprojects will be carried
out. This office should be adequately staffed by the end of bidding for civil works of Phase 1. The selection
of consiultants for construction supervision could start as a parallel activity with bidding for civil works.
The General Procurement Notice has been published on Development Business of July 16, 1998.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the loan would be made against expenditure categories as shown in Table
C.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
For Civil Works and goods contracts below US$300,000 equivalent, consulting firms contracts below
US$100,000 equivalent, individual consultant contracts below US$50,000 equivalent, sub-loans and grants
and all aLdministrative, operational and training expenditures, withdrawal applications will be supported by
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). For civil works and goods contracts over US$300,000 equivalent,
consulting frms contracts over US$100,000 equivalent and individual contracts over US$50,000
equivalent, withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation and signed contracts.
Special account:
To facilitate loan disbursement, the Development Bank of the Philippines will open and maintain a
separate special deposit account, in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose by the
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. The Special Account, which would cover the Bank's
share of eligible expenditures under all disbursement categories, would have an authorized allocation of
US$2.00 million with an initial withdrawal of US$1.00 million and the balance to be withdrawn when the
amounts disbursed and committed total US$8.00 million. Applications to replenish the Special Account,
supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted regularly (preferably monthly, but not less
than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 per cent of the initial deposit. The Special
Account shall be audited annually by the auditors acceptable to the Bank.
ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING:
Project expenditures will be separately recorded and reported by each implementing agency under the
Financial Information System for Foreign Assisted Projects (FISFAP) developed by the Commission on
Audit (CC)A) funded by the Bank's Institutional Development Fund (IDF). By next year, the objective is to
use it in all new projects. Its features are: (a) application of commercial methods of accounting; (b) use of
a perpetual inventory method; (c) an improved chart of account and coding system; (d) a clear recording
and reporting of accounting data from LGUs to the lead implementing agencies, and (e) generation of
accurate and timely financial reports that are needed by agency management, oversight agencies and
funding institutions. The system will run on a financial accounting software which has the capability of
customization or programming modification to suit the needs of the project.
Project disbursements to LGUs are routed through subsidiary loan agreements signed between the
Development Bank of the Philippines and LG-Us. DBP has established policies and procedures by which
these subsidiary loans are monitored. DBP will produce separate financial reports for each project, and
accounting for subsidiary loan disbursements. The accounting, disbursement and record keeping functions
-48-



are segregated and independent of each other. DBP relies on statement of expenditures by LGUs to release
funds. DBP does not have sufficient staff to review financial management arrangements in each LGU, but
relies on COA verification and approval of SOEs.
In order to ensure sound financial management of subprojects, the PMO at DBP will be staffed with
qualified and experienced financial analysts and financial management specialists who will be responsible
for financial appraisal of subprojects, based on the long-term financial planning model developed by the
project team, before feasibility studies commence. This staff will prepare action plans to implement
FISFAP system. The staff will also review periodically the financial management arrangements of
sub-projects and the effectiveness of internal control procedures.
All LGUs are required to prepare standard financial management reports quarterly and submit to the
DBP-PMO. These reports will be in a format acceptable to the Bank, and will be used for monitoring of
project progress by the DBP. DBP-PMO will be responsible for consolidation of the LGU financial
management reports and the consolidated reports will be submitted to the Bank quarterly. In addition, the
DBP-PMO will be responsible for preparing annual consolidated project financial statements based on the
financial statements prepared by the LGUs. DBP-PMO will require that LGU financial statements are
audited by COA and render an opinion thereon.
DBP-PMO will be responsible for submission of the consolidated project financial statements for the audit
by COA. COA will perform an audit of the project financial statements and render an opinion. A separate
audit of the operations of the Special Account and the withdrawal of expenditures through statemnent of
expenditure will also be carried out by COA who will provide a separate opinion iaereon.
-49-



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ExpendlitureCategory            ICB             NcB             t            N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                              0.0           22.2            2.1            0.0            24.3
(0.0)         (19.9)          (1.8)          (0.0)          (21.7)
2. Goods                              0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0
(0.0)          (0.0)          (0.0)          (0.0)           (0.0)
3. Services                           0.0            0.0            1.4            6.0             7.4
(0.0)          (0.0)          (1-4)          (0.0)           (1.4)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0
(0.0)          (0.0)          (0.0)          (0.0)           (0.0)
S. Front-end fee                      0.0            0.0            O.2            0.0             0.2
(0.0)          (0.0)          (0.2)          (0.0)           (0.2)
Total                             0.0            22.2            3.7            6.0            31.9
(0.0)         (19.9)          (3.4)           (0.0)         (23.3)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funids to local government
units.
- 50 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                 Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCES       QBS       SFB       LCS       CQ       Other     N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category                                                                             I .
A. Firns            0.0       1.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       4.5       5.5
__ _ __ _  (0.0)  (0.0)  (0.0)    (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)
B. Individuals      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.4        1.5       1.9
(0.0)    (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)
Total   0.0       1.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.4       6.0       7.4
I  (0.0)    (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guideleines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
-51-



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                        Contracts Subject to
Threshold          Procurement          Prior Review
Expenditur eCategory   (US$ thousands)         Method            (US$ millions)
1. Works               Less than $50,000   Simplified procedure    First five contracts
similar to national    each year $1 million
shopping
_________________   $50,000 and above         NCB           $300,000 $20 million
2. Goods
3. Services           Firms - regardless of      QBS          More than $100,000 $1
value                                   million
- Individual - Less than  Individual Selection   More than $50,000 $1
________________        $100,000                                  million
4. Miscellaneous    I
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    $23.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every months (includes special
procurernent supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documeintation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 52 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount In US$million           Financing Pomentage
Works                                 21.7                            89
Consultancy                            1.4                           100
0.0                                          =
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .0 .0
0.0                  .    _L
Total Project Costs                   23.1
Front-end fee             0.2                            100
Total                                 23.1
- 53 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  26                      28
First Bank mission (identification)      12/02/95                   12/04/95
Appraisal mission departure             02/01/98                    05/10/98
Negotiations                            05/01/98                    10/16/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness           10/10/98                   05/01/99
Prepared by:
N. Vijay Jagannathan
Preparation assistance:
Martha Ochieng
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Harvey Garn                                 Economist
Luiz Claudio Tavares                        Engineer
Aldo Baietti                                Financial Analyst
Heinrich Uinger                             Engineer-Environmental Specialist
Cecilia Vales                               Procurement Specialist
Karen Jacob                                 Community Participation Specialist
Mariles Navarro                             Economist
George Calderon                             Financial Analyst
Albert Wright                               Engineer
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                             Legal Counsel
- 54 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Including Operational Guidelines for:
I.Preparing technical design
2. Financial Projections of LGU Borrowing Capacity using Long-term Financial Planning Model
3. Economic Appraisal of Subprojects
4. Resettlement and Compensation Guidelines
5. Environmental Assessment Guidelines
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Financial Projections for all participating LGUs
2. EDI-sponsored National Seminar on LGU Water Supply Proceedings (June 1997)
3. Back-to-Office Reports in October 1996, June 1997, October 1997, March 1998, September 1998
C. Other
1. CariBro Kampsax Kruger: LGUUWS Project Feasibility Reports (3 Volumes) 1996
2. Department of Interior and Local Government Implementing Rules and regulations for NEDA Board
resolution No. 4
3. NEDA Board Resolutions Nos. 4 and 5 of 1994 series, NEDA Board Resolution No. 6 of 1996 series
*Including electronic files
- 55 -



Annex  9                                                                         MOP Schedule D
Oencfsted: 10/30/98
Status of Bank Group Operations in Philippines
Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                 and sctual
Fiscal                                                                                                                disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 126
Active Projects
PH-PE-4566      1998   REP OF PHILS                 EARLY CHILD DEV.               19.00        0.00            0.00         19.00     0.00        0.00
PH-PE-4576      1998   GOP                          WATER DISTRICT DEV.            56.B0        0.00            0.00         56.80     3.eo        0.00
PH-PE-4595      1998   GOP                          COCk UNITY 8ASED RESO          50.00        0.00            0.00         50.00     2.77        0.00
PH-PE-51386    1998   GOP                           SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND             10.00        0.00            0.00          9.75     1.50        0.00
PH-PE-37079    1997   GOP                           AGRARIAN REFORM COHN           50.00        0.00            0.00         46.12     3.12        0.00
PH-PE-40981    1997   SUBIC BAY METRO. AUTH.        SECOND SUBIC BAY               60.00        0.00            0.00         58.92    37.92        0.00
PH-PE-4602      1997   REP OF PHILS.                THIRD ELEM EDUCATION          113.40        0.00            0.00        110.40    35.56        0.00
PH-PE-4613      1997   GOP                          WATER RESOURCES DEVE           58.00        0.00            0.00         56.01    19.52        0.00
PH-PE-4571      1996   GOP                          TRANS GRID REINFORCE          250.00        0.00            0.00        153.24   -43.91        0.00
PH-PE-4611      1996   GOP                          MNLA 2ND SEWERAGE PR           57.00        0.00            9.00         48.00    31.99        1.00
PH-PE-4614      1996   LBP                          RURAL FINANCE II              150.00        0.00            0.00         34.56   -27.42        0.00
PH-PE-4567      1995   GOVT OF THE PHILS            HOMENS HEALTH & SAFE           18.00        0.00            0.00         15.77     3.72        0.00
PH-PE-4584      1994   NPC AND PHOC                 LEYTE CEBU GEOTHERMA,         211.00        0.00            0.00         31.86    31.85        0.00
PH-PE-4607      1994   GOV OF PHILIPPINES           LEYTE LUZON GEOTHERM          227.00        0.00            0.00         87.31    79.89        0.00
PH-PE-4609      1994   SBMA                         SUBIC BAY FREEPORT             40.00        0.00            0.00          3.18     1.99        0.00
PH-PE-4568      1993   GOP                          URB HEALTH a NUTRITI            0.00       70.00            0.00         51.36    31.59        0.00
PH-PE-4509      1993   GOP                          IRRIG OPER SUPP II             51.30        0.00            0.00         20.08    17.30        0.00
PH-PE-4599      1993   GOVT. OF PHILIPPINES         TAX COMPUTERIZATION            63.00        0.00            0.00         23.98    24.01        0.00
PH-PE-4538      1992   GOP                          SECOND VOCATIONAL TR            0.00       36.00            0.00         10.16     9.06        0.00
PH-PE-4592      1992   GOP                          MUNICIPAL DEV III              68.00        0.00            0.00         30.83    26.86        7.84
PH-PE-4597      1992   GOP                          HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT P          150.00        0.00            0.00         47.36    43.31        -.77
PH-PE-4558      1991   GOVT. OF PHILS.              ENV. A NAT. RES. MGT          158.00       66.00            0.00         17.00    13.71        0.00
PH-PE-4572      1991   ROP                          COMMUINAL IRRIG. II            46.20        0.00            3.34         14.77    18.13         .93
PH-PE-4552      1990   R.P.                         COCONUT FARMS DEVT.           121.80        0.00             .85         35.38    36.24       19.84
Total                                                                           2,028.50      172.00           13.19      1,032.48   401.53       2B.84
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              1,160.22            6,824.59           7,984.81
of which has been repaid:                 42.17           3,652.48            3,694.65
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              2,145.13            3,213.37           5,358.50
Amount sold                     :                0.00               31.35               31.35
Of which repaid              :                0.00               31.35              31.35
Total Undisbursed               :            1,032.48               41.23           1,073.71
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
-56-



Annex 9                                      MOP Schedule D
Phllippines
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1967/88              MERALCO                 7.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.32    0.00    0.00    0.00
1970/86188189        PLDT                   17.69    0.00    0.00   12.39   17.69    0.00    0.00   12.39
1974/79              Maria Cristina          0.00    .44    0.00    0.00    0.00    .44    0.00    0.00
1979/90              General Milling         0.00    1.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.73    0.00    0.00
1980/82/89S90/94/95  AACT                   21.90    2.73    0.00    0.00   18.40    2.73    0.00    0.00
1989                 H&QPV-I                 0.00    .75    0.00    0.00    0.00    .75    0.00    0.00
1990                 Avantex Mill            5.63    1.98    0.00    0.00    5 S.63    1.98    0.00    0.00
1992                 Bacnotan                4.20    5.63    0.00    3.00    4.20    5.63    0.00    3.00
!992                 Pilipinas Shell         0.00    0.00   11.63    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.63    0.00
!993                 H&QPV-U                 0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1993                 Pagbilao               51.00   10.00    0.00    8.60   51.00   10.00    0.00    8.60
1993/94              Mindanao Power          0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    426    0.00    0.00
1994                 Walden Mgmt             0.00    .05    0.00    0.00    0.00    .05    0.00    0.00
1994                 Walden Venturcs         0.00    3.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00
1995                 Sual Power             30.00    0.00    0.00  196.00   17.60    0.00    0.00  131.80
1996                 All Asia Growth         0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996                 All Asia Manager        0.00    .04    0.00    0.00    0.00    .04    .00    0.00
1996                 All Asia Venture        0.00    .01    0.00    0.00    0.00    .01    0.00    0.00
1997/98              Far East Bank          25.00   15.00    0.00   50.00   25.00   10.00    0.00   50.00
Total Portfolio:                 162.74   53.11   11.63  269.99  146.84   45.90    1.63  205.79
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
:997                 BATAAN P/E             30.00    0.00   10.00  163.00
998                  DRYSDALE              15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
998                  H&Q PVIII              0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
997                  MAGSAYSAY LINES        8.00    3.00    0.00   26.50
967                  MANILA ELECTRIC        0.00    0.00    0.00    .36
998                  PRYCE GASES            10.00    0.00    3.00    5.00
997                  PT&T                  30.00    5.00    0.00   30.00
995                  SUAL THERMAL           0.00   17.50    0.00    0.00
PWR
998                  2/2/98                45.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
Total Pending Commitment:        138.00   33.00   13.00  249.86
-57-



Annex 10
Philippines at a glance                                                              9115/98
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                            Asia &   middle-
Philippines    Pacific  income      Development diamond'
1997
Populabon, mid-year (millions)                        73.4     1,753     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   1,220       970     1,230
GNP (Atlas metod, USS billions)                       89.6     1,707     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Populabon (%)                                          2.3       1.3       1.2
Labor force ()                                         2.7       1.4       13      GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Mo,t recent estirnete (tat year available, 1991-97)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population beiow national poverty line)  54
Urban population (% of total population)               56         32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       66         69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               36         38        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             30         16                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  85        84        84
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 15+)                      5         17        19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoolage population)   116        115       111            Philippines
Ulale                                                          118       116       - - - Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                         1 16      113     _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           17.2     29.8      82.8      82.2
Gross domnestic investment/GDP               32.9     16.0      24.0      24.8                     Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            19.3     26.3      40.5      49.0
GrossdomesticsavingslGDP                     26.9     19.9      15.2      14.5
Gross national savingslGDP                  27.7      19.3      19.3      18.8
Cunent account balancelGDP                   -6.4      3.2       4.8       -5.2     D         I
Inteirest paymentsWGDP                        1.0      3.8       2.1       2.3      Domestc                     Investment
TotEIl debt/GDP                              35.1     94.5      49.7      55.2      Svn
Total debt service/exports                   16.9     33.7      14.4
Present value of debtGDP                                        46.6      43.9
Present value of debt/exports                                   96.3      73.5
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual gowth)
GDF'                                 1.8      3.2      5.7       5.3                      - Philippines
GNF' per capita                    -0.8       1.4      4.5       3.3                  ---  Lower-middle-income group
Exports o' goods and services       6.0       9.5     15.4      17.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  29.3     23.9      20.6       18.7    20
Industry                                     35.7     34.6      32.1      32.2    10
Manufacturing                              25.4     24.6       22.8      22.3     1
Services                                     35.1     41.5      47.3      49.2    20 T9
.20!
Priviteconsumption                          62.3      72.1      72.8      72.5 5   30
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  10.8      8.0       11.9     13.0               -     GD1       -  GDP
Imports of goods and services                25.2     22.4      49.3      59.4
197646  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports an(  ports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   1.4      1.8       3.0       3.7   25
Industry                                      0.7      3.1       6.3       6.0    20
Manufacturing                               0.5      3.0        5.6       4.2   150'
Services                                      3.2      3.9       6.5       5.4   10i/
Private consumption                           2.4      3.7       5.3       3.7     S.
General govemmentconsumption                 -0.3      3.9       5.2       0.6      a         9
Gross domestic investment                    -3.2      6.3      15.6       9.2      s     92   93   94   99    o    97
lmpcrts of goods and services                 2.1     11.3      16.7      14.4             -     Exports -o --Imports
Gross national product                        1.5      3.8       6.9       5. 
Note: 1997 data are preliminary esbimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
58



Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflatlon (%)
( change)                                                                         20
Consumer prices                              9.2      0.8        8.4      5.1     S15
Implicit GDP deflator                        8.3      3.0        7.8      6.0       t o
Govwrnment ffnance                                                                 5
(% of GDP, includes cunent grants)                                                o       ,     ,     g     I
Current revenue                                      13.0       18.9                     92   03   04        5    GO     7
Current budget balance                                1.4                                 -     GDP doftor        CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -5.0        0.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996      1997     Export and Import levels (US$ milIlons)
Total exports (fob)                                 4,842    20,543   25,228      40,0DO
Coconut oil                                         333        571      673    35,000
Sugar                                               103        136       83     30D000
Manufactures                                       2,672    17,106   21,488     25,000
Total imports (cif)                            -   5,044    31,885   36,355       2ODO'_
Food                                                193      1,578     1,435    10D0                     A       *
Fuel and energy                                     869      3,008    3,074      s
Capital goods                                       839    10,472   14,369          o_
91  022 9    4 5 ge           7
Export price index (1995=100)                          76       100
Import price index (1995=100)                          61       101         .OExports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    124         99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                             1976    1986       1996      1997     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              3,262    7,702    27,627   34,359      0 .          _      -         -    -
Imports of goods and services              4,381    5,868    41,371    50,477          91   92 03  94   95  06  97
Resource balance                           -1,119    1,834   -13.744   -16.118     -L _JI
Net income                                  -253   -1,321      9.202    10,735
Net current transfers                        268      441       589     1,080     3.
Curnent account balance                    -1,105     954    -3,953    -4,303    '4
Financing iems (net)                       1,051      184     8,060    7,666 -8
Changes in net reserves                       54   -1,138    -4,107   -3,363    4.6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         .        .    11,745    8,768
Conversion rate (DEC, 1ocal4USS)             7.4    20.4        26.2     29.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                        ComposIon of total debt
11976    1936      1996     1997               1996 (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)                                                                                        A: 4,666
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       6,039   28,204    41,214   45,433             G: 7.99            B. 193
IBRD                                       316    3,017     4,666    4,194                                   C
IDA                                         27       92       193       195               /                   405
Total debt service                           571    2,961      5,778        ..D: 3,079
IBRD                                        35      406       766       636
IDA                                          0        1         3         3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             61      401       246
Official creditors                         212      198      -310         .                                    E: 12.085
Private creditors                          883      294      1,859                F: 281728
Foreign direct investment                  132      127     1,408
Portfolio equity                             0        0     1,333
WVorid Bank program
Commitments                                226      151       528        60     A - IBRO                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              102      197       457       305     B - IDA    D-Other mulilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        14      170       426       336     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   88       27        31       -31
interest payments                           20      238       343       303
Net transfers                               68    -210       -312      -335
Development Economics                                                                                              9/15/98
59



MAP SECTION



I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0W',6
I 18<                           120"                            122                                0          1"         1
iblone,                                 _-CHNA
PHILIPPINES
2W      URBAN WATER AND)                                                                                                                PHILIPPINES
SANITATION PROJECT                                                 --                                                      ,              .
MALAYSIA /
PAN-PMIUPPINE HIGHWAY                                    ld
--      OTHER MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                   i
FERRIES                                                                                                            INDONES               -A
ITERAIONA  AIRPORTS                                        -,                                        - '' '..
MAiOR PORTS                       l1nq       1     6                                              100         110        ia          AUtIA   G
1RWERAS      A'                                              12                                125'                             26              18
*     PROVINCE CAPlTALS                                                                                                                    I )%'D
E)    REGION CAPITALS                    VRo                                                           lIcew        A d   s       o d our. h60saco A-eno,
P FOVINCE BOUNARES                                                                                        w &2nm=n      *.Xjl %b           G-P,~gl  w,tt l
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                oc.p so oSE ef rist
Regions uind Provinces.
2   Inc. S HgkI , 
-16-   3 bWkkb                                                                                                                                                           le-4   oh /2
CAR  Cordiot- Admeoslrolso  Regme
T Ab- c2,
'IC Moem Plsac                                       ]b ki
i   Cgoy-n Voley         IX   Weslern Mindoo           S.' F
I   c,,,,s               55 bslcd,,,-   7 
1  ,,,,                  Sc  2, 6> Nc5          de.mys d   pebo O ilt 
1 0.,, Nse v Sv      X   Norlthan Mindonoo 
V  I,,,,,          V~~~~,, 'I" ,Oc,
II    C-,1Lz               5  ,,,, 
Xi   5USt1r Wda-                                       l
,7  a.slr.or ^' 5.41n Crw>.rsuI tsl >-~~~~~~~i>- 3wi IJ'd
I *  oc,,r  1 ,        X      . SoelheeoMIln_ onoo_I.                                                 
20 T -0.                     5r~' 1S cDt   bn                                               1m .Ni r.
NCR  Notione Coptiol Reglee t         X cC                                                                     'Ne- mso
IV  S'uLthere logoleg
XIll Cenlrl                MinddoneeMoWin o,
o    .4. ,,, ,.   _AJ "  ,VdX-                                                hi .   b n\                dR
V   Riceloeondie                eIe  ooeno.           e         q;c ''                    '
12 '                                                                                                                                                                      2' ~ .: ,u.uo ) AbiL3 > \ <,b f,Chm
C,5, b- c',,b,c C
VI  Wotol. Visys                                                                         '
VII  Ceeleol Vlnoyns ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~    ~     Pno
VIII  RoeIee VleoyosIVP
~~ - ~~~ ~~~ /~~ T O JT!}m~~~D                                               V
to.~ ~ ~ 0
st                                                                                                                                            10MO'/ A+
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~K    m- Cit                                                                                                                   7   
MALAYSIA ~       ~        ~ ~ ul Sea-                                                    elbs  e
CM~~                                                                                                               ~     ~~ ~ 0   10,    2LIOr30DgonOM? NeI
A                                                                                      48
Able~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xi
0fr oepoi
Oegsel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X A
C=-                                                             D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- /   Gl
MALAYSIA                                                                                           Clb5Se
C                                                                                     5      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 40  200  300 R1LDMETRRS 
115'                   ~~~~~~~~~120'                     122'                            I?5                              12,6                '



