Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4422 PH
Loan Agreement
(LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Dated January 29, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4422 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 1999 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE 
PHILIPPINES (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from Republic of the Philippines 
(the Guarantor) a letter dated September 28, 1998, describing a program 
designed to ensure access to sustainable water supply, sanitation and 
drainage services for the greater portion of the population in 
approximately two hundred fifty cities and municipalities outside Metro 
Manila in the Philippines (the Program, as hereinafter defined) and 
declaring the Guarantor’s commitment to the execution of said Program;
(B)
the Guarantor has requested that the Bank support the 
Guarantor’s execution of the Program through a series of loans over a 
period of approximately eight years to be utilized in the implementation 
of the Program; 
(C)
the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to 
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, which Project forms the first phase of the Program, have 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
Page  2
(D)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date 
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to 
undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
and
(E)
The Borrower intends to seek from the Nordic Development 
Fund a loan in amount equivalent to five million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 5,000,000) (the NDF Loan) to assist in the financing of Part C of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the 
NDF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Nordic Development 
Fund and the Borrower; and
(F)
the Guarantor intends to seek from the European Union a 
grant (the European Union Grant) in an amount equivalent to one million 
ECU (ECU 1,000,000) to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the European Union Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Guarantor and the European 
Union; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995, as amended through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used in 
this Agreement:
(a)
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the Central Bank of the 
Republic of the Philippines, and any successor thereto;
(b)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Charter” means the charter of the Borrower dated December 
3, 1986, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)
“DILG” means the Department of Interior and Local 
Government, an agency of the Guarantor, and any successor thereto;
(e)
“DOF” means the Department of Finance, an agency of the 
Guarantor, and any successor thereto;
(f)
“LGUs” means Local Government Units which are political 
subdivisions of the Guarantor at the provincial, city, municipal or 
barangay level, and “LGU” means any such Local Government Unit;
Page  3
(g)
“Memorandum of Agreement” or “MOA” means the agreement dated 
October 16, 1998, executed by the Borrower, DILG and DOF for the 
establishment of the Technical Working Committee, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.05 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement and Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Operations Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, adopted by the Technical Working Committee and referred to in 
Section 3.05 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement and in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, said Manual setting forth, inter alia, 
procedures and standards for the selection of Participating LGUs, for the 
preparation, appraisal and approval of LGU Sub-projects under Part A of 
the Project, technical standards and design, policies and procedures for 
environmental impact management and monitoring, for the acquisition of 
land and other assets and compensation therefor, and guidelines regarding 
LGU and community participation;
(i)
“Participating LGUs” means the LGUs at the city or municipal 
level selected in accordance with the policies and procedures set forth 
in the Operations Manual to receive financing to carry out their 
respective Sub-projects under Part A of the Project;
(j)
“PMO” means the Project Management Office to be established 
and maintained by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(k)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be established by 
each Participating LGU in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 
(f) (ii) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(l)
“Program” means the Guarantor’s LGU Urban Water and 
Sanitation Development Program as set out in the letter from the 
Guarantor referred to in paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of 
the execution of Part A of the Project, had or would have their: (i) 
standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest 
in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or 
any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or 
permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or 
habitat adversely affected;
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(o)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by DBP to 
a Participating LGU, under the provisions of a Subloan Agreement, for the 
carrying out of a Sub-project;
(p)
“Subloan Agreements” means the agreements to be entered 
between DBP and Participating LGUs, pursuant to  Section 2(f) of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, and “Subloan Agreement” means any such Subloan 
Agreement;
(q)
“Sub-project” means a specific investment project which 
includes the construction, expansion or rehabilitation of water supply, 
sanitation and drainage systems, to be carried out by a Participating LGU 
under Part A of the Project, utilizing the proceeds of its respective 
Subloan;
(r)
“Technical Working Committee” means the committee 
established and maintained pursuant to the Memorandum of Agreement in 
Page  4
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 (a) of the Guarantee 
Agreement and Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; and
(s)
“Water Districts” means local agencies of the Guarantor 
established pursuant to Title II of the Provincial Water Utilities Act of 
1973, as amended to the date of this Agreement, to provide, operate and 
maintain water supply, wastewater collection, treatment and disposal 
facilities within designated geographical areas, and “Water District” 
means any of such Water Districts.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to twenty-three million three hundred thousand dollars 
($23,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for purposes of Part A of the Project, 
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial 
bank specifically authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng 
Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, 
and after the initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Interest 
Payment Date.
Page  5
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for 
six-month deposits in dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or 
next preceding the first day of such 
Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of 
LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly 
upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Guarantor and the 
Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry 
of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the 
Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable February 
15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project and 
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial 
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in 
accordance with the Charter, the Memorandum of Agreement and the 
Operations Manual.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance 
Page  6
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the works and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower
(a)
shall, under a memorandum of agreement satisfactory to the 
Bank, jointly with DOF and DILG, establish and thereafter maintain a 
Technical Working Committee which shall be responsible for overall 
coordination and supervision of all components of the Project;
(b)
shall not, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, amend, 
abrogate or waive such memorandum or any provision thereof; and
(c)
shall not amend, delete, suspend or waive the Operations 
Manual or any provision thereof without the prior consent of the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall implement Part C of the Project in 
accordance with guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the Bank and to 
NDF.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued achievement of the 
objectives of Part A of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, adequate to monitor and record the progress 
of Parts A and C of the Project and of each LGU Sub-project (including 
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), and to reflect the 
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
connection with the carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, its accounts 
and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and 
related statements) and records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, 
Page  7
by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in Section 4.01 above for such year as so audited, 
and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and a report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records, accounts 
and financial statements, and 
the audit thereof and concerning said auditors, 
as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, records and 
separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures 
and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to 
the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss 
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies 
(including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its operations.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all actions within its powers 
to distribute annual dividends on its shares only after adequate 
provisions  have been made for, inter alia: (a) taxes; (b) loan loss 
provisions; and (c) adjustments to its equity caused by within-year 
inflation.
Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall, by December 31, 2000, take all 
steps necessary to reduce the percentage of the arrears in its retail 
loan portfolio to a level not exceeding the industry average for 
commercial banks in the Philippines and, thereafter, the Borrower shall 
maintain such arrears percentage at such level.
ARTICLE V
Page  8
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
operations or the financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to 
carry out Parts A and C of the Project or to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(c)
(i)
Subject to clause (ii) of this paragraph (c): (A) the 
right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the NDF 
Loan to the Borrower for the financing of 
Part C 
of the Project, or the right of the Guarantor to withdraw the proceeds 
of the European Union Grant to the Guarantor for the 
financing of Part B of 
the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, 
pursuant to the terms of the respective agreements providing therefor; 
or (B) the NDF Loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed 
maturity thereof.
(ii)
Clause (i) of this paragraph (c) shall not apply if 
the Borrower or the 
Guarantor, as the case 
may be, establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower or the 
Guarantor, as the case may be, to 
perform any of its 
obligations under the respective agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for Parts B and C of the Project are available to the 
Borrower 
and the Guarantor from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with 
the obligation of the 
Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement or of the 
Borrower under the Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso in paragraph (c) 
(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
Subloan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and at least ten Participating LGUs in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2 (f) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
the NDF Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and 
Page  9
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of 
the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(c)
the European Union Grant Agreement has been executed and 
delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the 
right of the Guarantor to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Development Bank of the Philippines
Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue Corner
Makati Avenue
Makati, Metro Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address:
Telex:
PHILDEBANK
22197
Manila
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the 
day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava
Page  10
Authorized Representative
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Remedios Macalincag
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Works including supply
 21,667,000
89%
and installation of water
and sanitation equipment
under Part A of the Project
(2)
Consultants'
  1,400,000
100%
 services under 
 Part A of the Project
(3)
Fee
    233,000
Amount due 
under
Section 2.04 
of this
Agreement
TOTAL
 23,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Guarantor.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works 
under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; and (ii) 
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing, 
respectively, less than $100,000 equivalent each and less than $50,000 
equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of the Program of LGU Urban Water 
and Sanitation Development of the Republic of the Philippines (the 
Program).  The objective of the Project is to assist selected LGUs to: 
(i) provide sustainable water and sanitation services; and (ii) 
strengthen their institutional and technical capacity to manage water 
utilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:
Water Supply, Sanitation and Drainage Services
Improvement of water supply, sanitation and drainage services in 
approximately forty selected cities and municipalities outside Metro 
Manila, through the financing of investment projects to construct, 
rehabilitate and expand water supply systems, on-site sanitation 
facilities and micro-drainage infrastructure.
Part B:
Water Utilities Private Sector Participation
Facilitating of private sector participation in the delivery of 
water supply and sanitation services, including the operations and 
maintenance of municipal facilities, through the provision of technical 
assistance to selected LGUs and Water Districts to develop and implement 
municipal or regional strategies for private sector participation.
Part C:
Institutional Development
Strengthening of the capacity of selected LGUs and national 
agencies for preparation of investment projects to improve water supply, 
sanitation and drainage services, operation and maintenance, including 
adequate treatment of the environmental and health aspects of water 
supply and sanitation services, investment planning and financial 
management, through the provision of consultants’ services, training and 
equipment.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of 
Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in 
Dollars)*
August 15, 2004
485,000
February 15, 2005
500,000
August 15, 2005
515,000
February 15, 2006
530,000
August 15, 2006
550,000
February 15, 2007
565,000
Page  12
August 15, 2007
580,000
February 15, 2008
600,000
August 15, 2008
620,000
February 15, 2009
635,000
August 15, 2009
655,000
February 15, 2010
675,000
August 15, 2010
695,000
February 15, 2011
720,000
August 15, 2011
740,000
February 15, 2012
765,000
August 15, 2012
785,000
February 15, 2013
810,000
August 15, 2013
835,000
February 15, 2014
860,000
August 15, 2014
885,000
February 15, 2015
915,000
August 15, 2015
940,000
February 15, 2016
970,000
August 15, 2016
     1,000,000
February 15, 2017
            1,030,000
August 15, 2017
     1,060,000
February 15, 2018
            1,090,000
August 15, 2018
     1,125,000
February 15, 2019
            1,165,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided  in section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Works
Part A:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 and in September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 of this Part B, works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,760,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
Page  13
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to: (a) each contract for works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $300,000 or more; and (b) the first five contracts for 
works each year, irrespective of the cost of such contracts, provided 
that with respect to any of these first five contracts which are to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph B (2) 
above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under the 
procedure for procurement of 
small works, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and 
evaluation of quotations received and a copy of the specifications and 
the 
draft contract; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part A of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  14
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks under Part A of the Project that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services for Part A of the 
Project shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain a Project 
Management Office with functions, responsibilities and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank, managed and staffed with qualified and 
experienced personnel in adequate number, to coordinate, supervise and 
monitor the implementation of Part A of the Project.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall select 
LGUs and Subprojects and make Subloans to such Participating LGUs in 
accordance with criteria, procedures and on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Operations Manual.  Such 
criteria, procedures and terms and conditions shall include the 
following:
(a)
The Participating LGU shall have carried out a program of 
Page  15
consultation and discussion with the community, satisfactory to the Bank, 
regarding the level of services and gathered evidence of demand for such 
services from at least sixty percent (60%) of its households.
(b)
The municipal council and mayor of the Participating LGU 
shall have passed resolutions to participate in the Project and to 
execute a Subloan Agreement with the Borrower, satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank.
(c)
The principal amount of a Subloan shall not exceed 
seventy-five percent (75%) of the total costs of the related Subproject 
(excluding the cost of land); and the Participating LGU shall be required 
to contribute at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the total Sub-project 
costs from internally generated revenues and from its internal revenue 
allocation.
(d)
Repayment of each Subloan shall be made over a period not 
exceeding fifteen (15) years inclusive of three (3) years grace; and 
interest shall be at an annual rate to be agreed from time to time by the 
Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank.
(e)
The Borrower shall approve a Subloan to a Participating LGU 
only if such LGU has prepared:
(i)
an environmental assessment and an environmental 
management plan on the basis 
of standards satisfactory 
to the Bank and in accordance with the principles 
set 
forth in the Operations Manual; and
(ii)
a resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Bank, 
in accordance with the 
principles set forth in the 
Operations Manual, in the event the Sub-project 
involves resettlement of Project Affected Persons;
(f)
in respect of each Subloan, the Borrower shall enter into a 
Subloan Agreement with the relevant Participating LGU whereby the 
Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Bank and the Borrower, including without limitation the rights to:
(i)
require the Participating LGU to carry out its 
Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial 
and environmental standards and practices, and to maintain adequate 
records;
(ii)
require the Participating LGU to establish and, 
thereafter, maintain a Project 
Management Unit with 
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank, and managed and staffed with qualified personnel 
in 
adequate number to manage the implementation 
of its Subproject;
(iii)
require that the works and services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Subloan shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this 
Agreement and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Sub-project;
(iv)
require that the Participating LGU implement its 
environmental management plan 
and resettlement action 
plan, as the case may be, in a manner satisfactory to 
the 
Page  16
Borrower and the Bank;
(v)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representative of 
the Bank such goods and 
the sites, works, plans and 
construction included in the Sub-project, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(vi)
require that the Participating LGU provide to the 
Borrower and the Bank all 
such information as the Borrower 
or the Bank may reasonably request relating 
to the 
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition 
of the Participating LGU and to the benefits to be derived 
from its respective 
Sub-project;
(vii)
require the Participating LGU to: (A) establish and 
maintain a financial 
management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, adequate 
to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to its Sub-project; 
(B) have the records, 
accounts and financial statements referred to in clause 
(A) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; and (C) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, 
copies of the financial statements referred to in clause (A) above as so 
audited together with an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and 
report of such audit by said 
auditors;
(viii) require that the Participating LGU take out and 
maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice; and
(ix)
suspend, terminate the right of the Participating LGU 
to the use of the 
proceeds of the Subloan, or 
declare the principal of the Subloan then 
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with interest 
thereon 
and all charges connected therewith, upon 
failure by such LGU to perform its 
obligations under 
its Subloan Agreement with the Borrower.
3.
The Borrower:
(a)
shall exercise its right in relation to each Subloan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank, comply with its obligations under this Agreement and achieve 
the purposes of the Project; and
(b)
shall not, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, 
abrogating or waiving any Subloan Agreement or any provision thereof.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
Page  17
and furnish to the Bank: (i) a semi-annual report on or about April 30 
and October 31 of each year, commencing October 31, 1999, and (ii) a 
mid-term report on or about April 30, 2000, in each case integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of each such 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later date 
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in clause (b)(ii) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
Sub-projects under Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Page  18
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan 
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
Page  19
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
