Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4422 PH
Guarantee Agreement
(LGU Urban Water and Sanitation  Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 29, 1999 
LOAN NUMBER 4422 PH 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor has developed a program designed to ensure access to 
sustainable water supply, sanitation and drainage services for the greater portion of 
the population in approximately two hundred fifty cities and municipalities outside of 
Metro Manila in the Philippines (the Program), as set forth in a letter to the Bank, 
dated September 28, 1998, and is committed to the execution of said Program; 
(B)
the Guarantor has requested that the Bank support the execution of the 
Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately eight years to be 
utilized in the implementation of the Program; 
(C)
the Guarantor and Development Bank of the Philippines (the Borrower), 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, which Project forms the first phase of the Program, 
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(D)
The Borrower intends to seek from the Nordic Development Fund a loan in 
amount equivalent to five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,000,000) (the NDF 
Loan) to assist in the financing of Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the NDF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Page  2
Nordic Development Fund and the Borrower; 
(E)
the Guarantor intends to seek from the European Union a grant (the 
European Union Grant) in an amount equivalent to one million ECU (ECU 1,000,000) to 
assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the European Union Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Guarantor and the European Union; and 
(F)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount of twenty 
three million three hundred thousand dollars ($23,300,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor 
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided 
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble to 
and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Guarantee; Provision of Funds 
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that funds available for the Project will be inadequate to 
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, to make 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to provide or cause to be provided such funds 
as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III 
Implementation of the Program
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Guarantor shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in the 
implementation of actions and policies embodied in the Program, in such detail as the 
Page  3
Bank shall reasonably request. 
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project through 
DOF and DILG and with the participation of the Borrower and of its Departments of 
Health and of Environment and Natural Resources, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, environmental, financial and 
management practices and shall provide, promptly as needed the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts B and C of the Project. 
Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, 
Part B of the Project in accordance with guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank and to the European Union.
(b)
The Guarantor, through DILG, shall carry out the training under Part C of 
the Project in accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank and to NDF. 
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall maintain within DILG the Water Supply and 
Sanitation Project Management Office with functions and resources satisfactory to the 
Bank, managed and staffed with experienced personnel in adequate number, to provide 
support to LGUs in the evaluation and preparation of Sub-projects and in the 
implementation of the institutional strengthening program under Part C of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall cause DOF and DILG to: 
(a)
jointly with the Borrower, under a memorandum of agreement satisfactory 
to the Bank, establish and, thereafter, maintain a Technical Working Committee which 
shall be responsible for overall coordination and supervision of all components of the 
Project; 
(b)
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate or waive 
such memorandum or any provision thereof; and 
(c)
not amend, delete, suspend or waive the Operations Manual or any 
provision thereof without the prior consent of the Bank.
Section 3.06.  The Guarantor shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank: (i) a semi-annual report on or about April 30 and October 31 of each 
year, commencing October 31, 1999, and (ii) a mid-term report on or about April 30, 
2000, in each case integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of each such report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV 
Other Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall: 
Page  4
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  The Guarantor shall assume the foreign exchange risk in respect 
of the Loan to the Borrower and, to this end, shall charge the Borrower a fee therefor 
under arrangements acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor shall take all actions necessary to cause the 
Borrower to distribute annual dividends on its common shares in accordance with 
Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement, including, but not limited to: (a) adjusting the 
percentage of the annual net earnings required to be paid as dividends under the 
relevant law; and (b) proposing legislation by August 1, 1999, for enactment by its 
Congress to permit the Borrower to distribute dividends consistent with its 
obligations under Section 4.04 of the Loan. 
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses 
Section 5.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Blvd.
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
SECFIN
40268 CB-CONF
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Joel Banares 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava 
Authorized Representative
