Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11030-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
JANUARY 15, 1993
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution mnd may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =     Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00           =     Mex$ 3,115 (November 30, 1992)*
* The exchange rate against the US dollar is currently sliding at a rate of
Mx$0.4 per day.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)           =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)       =   2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)  =   2,250 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)           =   0.26 gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (mi3)    =   1,000 liters (1)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS              National Bank of Public Works and Services
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servkios Pdblicos
CETES                 Treasury Bill
CUD                   Regional Development Agreement
Conveno Unco de Desarrollo
DGIE                  Department of Infrastructure and Equipment
Direcci6n General de Infraestruct y Equipamniento
GOM                   Government of Mexico
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IVA                   Value Added Tax
ITP                   Integral Transport Plan
LCB                   Local Competitive Bidding
MCMA                  Mexico City Metropolitan Area
PCR                   Project Completion Report
PVT                   Plan for Roads and Urban Transport
Programa de Vialidad Transporte Urbane
SCT                   Ministry of Communications and Transport
Secretarfi de Coenunkacio y Transporte
SEDUE                 Ministry of Urban Development and Ecology
Secretarfi de Desarrofll Urbano y Ecologfa
SEDESOL               Ministry of Social Development
Secretarfa de Desarrello Social
SHCP                  Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Secretaria de Hadenda y Crddito Pdblico
SOM                   State of Mexico
Estado de M4xico
SOE                   Statement of Expenses
TAQM                  Transport Air Quality Management Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
=x1X
MEDIUM-SXSZ CITIES URBAN TRINUPORT PROJCCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PROJECT SUMMARY ............................  .  i-v
I.  THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR  .........  ....  ...  ...                 ...       1
A.  Urban Transport and the Economy  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.  Institutional Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
C.  Sectoral Issues  ... .  .      .  .  .  .   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    3
Institutions .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Federal Resource Allocation and Financing .  . . . . . . .   4
Transport Policy and Planning .         . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Public Transport and Regulation .        . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Maintenance .           .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Environment .             . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Low Cost Solutions .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Cost recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
D.  Lessons Learned from Past Projects.             .10
II.    THE  PROJECT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
A.    Origin    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
B.  Sector Strategy and the Rationale for and Objectives of
Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
C.  Description . . . . . .                                        15
D.  ITPs and the Operating Manual of the PVT .23
B. Costs .27
F. Financing .30
G. On-Lending .31
H.  Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
I.  Institutional Responsibilities  . . . . . . . . . .            32
J. Procurement .35
K.  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
L.  Reporting and Project Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
M. Auditing .39
N.  Project Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
0.  Environmental Aspects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
P.  Project Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXS   .  ..                  .  .  .  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   46
1.   Sub-project and City Eligibility Criteria  . ..                 .46
2. SXDSOL Strengthening Program               ..53
3. BANORRAS Strongthnning Progr ....61
4.   National Training Program  . . . . . . . . .   .  .67
5.   3conamic gvaluation  - Method and Resultr             .       .73
6.   Sub-project Preparation and Execution                . . .  .  .86
7.   Monitoring and Evaluation               . . . . . . . . .  .  .96
B.   Financing of the Program . . . . . . . . . . .  .     .  .  .    ......    .  101
9.   Zstimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursoent          .    .     .... . 103
10.  Documnt in Projoct File  ............. ..                  .    ....    104
MAP   IBRD 23662
TABLES
Table 1  Project Cout Sumary .  . .. .. .. .. .... . .29
Tablo 2  Financing Plan ..............  .....  .....  .  . 30
Tablo 3  Procurement Method .........    ...........  ...                        . 36
Tablo 4  Disbursement Profile by Category . . . . . .38
Table 5  Sensitivity of BRR to change. in costs and benefits .41
This report in based on the finding of an appraiwal mission which visited
Mexico in January/February 1992.  Mission members included Messrs.  Gideon
Hashimshony (then Task Xanager, Sr. Transport Planner), John Flora (LATIE),
Robin Carruthors (LA21E, Transport Economist and current Task Manager), John
Cracknell (Consultant, Transport Specialist). Messrs. R. Scurfield (INUTD)
and M. Dick (LATIE) providod the Peer Review, Mr. Ricardo Halperin is the
Managing Division Chief, Mr. Paul Knotter is the Project Advisor and Mr.
Zdilberto 8 gura is the Department Director. Mra. Sylvia Driscoll and Mrs.
Angola Chioariu (LA2IZ) assisted in producing this report.



- s -
amxzco
nurnuM-XXU CXSXBS URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
XAMX AND PROJECT SUNARY
borrowers     Banco Macional de Obras y Servicios P6blicom, 8.N.C.
- (BA)OBRA.)
guarantors    United Mexican States.
Executin
Agenciae  and  BANOBRAS, Scretaria do D-zarrollo Social - (SBDBSOL),
geneficiarh.ssand state and municipal urban transport agencies.
Loan amount:  U8$200 million equivalent.
Tormss        Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
os-lending
terms         BANOBRAS will on-lend loan proceeds in peso denominated
sub-loans to states or municipalities agencies with
repayment in up to 15 years including a grace period of
up to 3 years, at a rate at least equal to the CZTES (Treasury
Bill) rate plus 2%, which reflects the marginal cost of funds
to and operating costs of BANOBRAS.
Pro. ct
objectivess   The main objectives are to:  (a) improve the quality
and efflciency of urban transport systems in medium-size
cLties; (b) assist the Federal Government ln decentralizing
responsibility for urban transport manag em nt; (c) finance
infrastructure improv eme nts that are economically justified,
andt (d) control the environmental impacts of urban transport
operations. Specifically, the proposed project will help to:
(i) strengthen the local and national institutions responsible
for planning and managing urban transport systems in medium-
size cities; (ii) assist in the development/implementation of
appropriate financial mechanisms which devolve responsibility
for planning and financing of urban transport from the Federal
and State governments to municipalities; (iii) improve the
operational efficiency of the existing urban transport
networks; (iv) improve sector planning, which should result in
improved resource allocation within the sector, better
transport to the poor and enhanced consideration of
environmental factors; (v) preserve, through better
maintenance, the urban transport infrastructure, deferring the
need for now investments and reducing user costs; (vi)
encourage public transport development and increase private
sector participation; (vii) improve access to low income areas



- ii -
through infrastructure improvement; (viii) improve
environmental conditions, by strengthening the implementing
agencies for environmental controls and enforcing environmental
standards, and reducing traffic congostion, particularly in
inner city areas; and (ix) encourage the development of
facilities for non-motorized transport.
Project
Description:  The proposed project includes two parts:  Part A -
National (US$7.8 million) comprises: (a) an institutional
strengthening program for SEDESOL (US$4.3 million); (b) an
institutional strengthening program for BANOBRAS (US$0.5
million); (c) a training program for urban transport
professionals (US$2.2 million); and (d) grants towards the cost
of studies to prepare Integral Transport Plans (ITPs) (US$ 0.8
million); Part B - Local (US$463.3) comprises credit (sub-
loans) to medium-size cities that meet eligibility criteria to
finance:  (a) the remaining cost of the studies for ITPs (US$4
million); (b) urgent infrastructure improvements (US$45.3
million); (c) other urban transport improvements (sub-
projects), which include planning and traffic management
measures, public transport improvements, road maintenance and
rehabilitation, paving of access routes to low income areas and
corridor improvements (US$363.1 million); (d) the final design
of sub-projects, technical assistance, studies and training for
professional staff in the cities (US$41.6 million); and (d)
equipment for traffic management and control (US$9.3 million).
The total project cost is estimated at US$471.1 million
equivalent, including land, taxes and duties, with a foreign
exchange component of US$138.9 million. The above figures are
inclusive of land costs, physical and price contingencies and
taxes.
Project
Benefitst      Medium-size cities have the highest population growth
rate of all geographical sectors of Mexico and provide an
important potential for increasing industrial productivity.
Many responsibilities for urban transport management have been
devolved to the cities, but they have neither the institutional
framework nor professional expertise to carry out these
responsibilities satisfactorily. The project will provide for
institutional strengthening and professional training for
technical staff. Benefits from infrastructure investment will
result from reduced vehicle operating costs, travel time
savings, more cost effective investments and improved
environmental conditions. The ERR for all proposed sub-
projects will be greater than 12%, as will the ERR of all
subproject components. The poor will benefit through improved
transport infrastructure and better public transport services
resulting from the whole range of proposed measures, but
particularly from the paving of access routes to low income
areas, which will account for about 18% of total project costs.



- lii -
Project
Risks          The main project risks involve weak institutions both at
the national and local levels and uncertainty as to the
commitment of future local administrations. BANOBRAS and
SEDESOL have already undertaken reorganizations, in areas
relevant to the project, to strengthen their capacities, and
technical assistance and training programs are included in the
project. The commitment risk will be mitigated by: (a) the up-
front subproject eligibility criteria which will apply to all
federally provided resources for urban transport in medium-size
cities, and (b) the incentive provided by the grant element of
the federal program for transport investment in medium-size
cities. Also, the credit approach has built-in flexibility
which will allow resources to be reallocated from an approved
subproject which is not performing to another eligible
subproject.



-iv -
Project Cost Su marys
Local      Foreign    Total
-------US$ million------
PART A NATIONAL
Al  SEDESOL Strengthening                        1.0        2.5         3.5
A2  BANOBRAS Strengthening                      0.3         0.1         0.4
A3  National Training Program                   0.9         0.9         1.8
A4  Integral Studies                            0.4         0.2         0.6
SUB TOTAL PART A                                2.6         3.7         6.3
PART B LOCAL
B1    Integral Transport Plans                  2.1         1.1         3.2
B2    Immediate Civil Works                    25.7        12.4        38.1
B3(a) Implementation of ITPU (Civil works)   145.8         79.0      224.8
B3(b) Implementation of ITPu (Services)        17.6         5.8       23.4
B3(c) Implementation of ITPc (Zquipment)        2.5         5.0         7.5
Land and property acquisition            25.2         0.0       25.2
SUB TOTAL PART B                              218.9       i9103      322.2
TOTAL BASE COST                               221.5       107.0      328.5
Physical contingencies                         37.8        18.2        56.0
Price contingencies                            28.1        13.7       41.8
TOTAL (excluding taxes)                       287.4       138.9      426.3
Taxes                                          44.8         0.0        44.8
Total (including taxes)                       332.2       1389       41.1
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
-----------Us$ million-------
Government of Mexico                        174.7         0.0        174.7
Municipalities and States                    96.4         0.0         96.4
IBRD                                         61.1       138.9        200.0
TOTAL:                                      332.2       l3f.9        71.1



v 
Usti.ated Dank Didbursemet
Bank Fiscal Years
-----------    Us million      -----------
1993   1994  1995  1996  1997   1998   1999  2000
Annual        22AL    35    41       38    25      15     15      9
Cumulativ      22      57    98   136   161    176   191   200
a/    Includes initial deposit of US$12 million to Special Account and
retroactivo financing of US$2 million for expenditures incurred after
June 30, 1992.
Rate of
Return:  Between 34% and 72% for different types of sub-projoet
component, with an average of almost 50%, based on a samplo of three
sub-projects that account for about 30% of total project costs. A
minimum average economic rate of return of 12% will be required for
all eligible proposed sub-projects, and no individual component
should have an economic rate of return of less then 12%.
maps     IBRD  23662






MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
I.   THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Urban Transport and the Economy
1.1      Over the past 30 years, urbanization in Mexico has been expanding at
a fast rate, which seems to be accelerating. In 1960, about 46% of the total
population lived in urban areas (i.e., areas with more than 15,000
inhabitants). This had increased to about 50% by 1970 and to more than 53% by
1980, and in 1990 the provisional census figure was almost 61%. Urban growth
is expected to continue to be fueled by relatively high birth rates coupled
with falling mortality rates, the limited carrying capacity of the rural areas
and the expansion of urban-based productive sectors. As a result, about 70%
of the Mexican population are expected to be living in urban centers by the
end of the century.
1.2      The provisional results of the 1990 census suggest that the
geographical distribution of population is undergoing significant changes.
Contrary to earlier expectations, the expansion of the Mexico City
Metropolitan Area (MCMA) has slowed down significantly. At the same time, a
number of intermediate and secondary cities have grown at rates much higher
than expected at the start of the decade, partly as a response to a market-
driven relocation of economic activities, particularly in the case of a number
of cities along the Mexico-United States border. The proposed North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) would accelerate the growth of the medium-size
cities. However, even if the lesser growth rate were to be confirmed for the
MCMA, it would continue to be confronted with a vast array of development,
environmental and management problems rooted in the very massiveneos of its
population, the complexity of its urban fabric, the constraints of its
geographical environment, and the intricacy of its institutional and
administrative framework. The transport-related environmental issues of the
MCMA are being addressed in a the Transport Air Quality Management (TAQM)
project for the MCMA, recently approved by the Board of Executive Directors.
1.3      Urban transport affects the productivity of cities in many ways.
First, the costs of production of goods and services are influenced, both
directly and indirectly, through the time required to move people and freight.
Production costs are higher when distribution takes place in congested
conditions and employee welfare costs are higher when employees have to
undertake long and slow journeys to work. Second, the construction and
maintenance of the urban transport system is capital intensive, and to the
extent that there is less than full cost recovery, can require a significant
proportion of government resources. Third, the form of city development
itself is dependent on the way in which urban transport is provided; lack of
recognition of the impact of urban transport on city land use development can
result in an inefficient use of land and in unnecessarily high production and
distribution costs. Fourth, it is increasingly recognized that urban
transport can have a major negative impact on the quality of urban life,



particularly by creating air pollution and noise. If these impacts are not
limited, they can affect the health, working capacity and lifestyles of urban
populations.
B.   Institutional Framework
1.4      In 1983, the Mexican Constitution was amended.  Its Article 115 now
assigns to municipalities the responsibility for the provision of a number of
services, including urban transport. However, in practice, because of the
lack of financial resources and administrative and professional capacities at
the local level, these services are often provided with assistance from the
state and/or federal governments. While the states and municipalities are
free to make their own arrangements, most municipalities are only responsible
for street cleaning and maintenance of the local road and street network.
Construction and financing of new roads in municipalities are often the
responsibility of the states, usually through a Secretariat of Public Works.
Traffic management and regulation of bus services and concessions are also
often the responsibility of the states. The larger the city or municipality,
the greater the tendency for it to have more responsibility for road
construction and traffic management. The government's National Development
Plan, published in June 1989 seeks to decentralize responsibilities and to
strengthen local organizations, particularly st the municipal level, as it is
felt that this leads to improved responsiveness to local needs and better
accountability.
1.5      A number of agencies are involved in urban transport.  At the
federal level, the Secretariat of Social Development (SEDESOL) is responsible
for formulating the federal policy on urban development, including transport
and protection of the environment (para. 1.10). The Secretariat of
Communications and Transport (SCT) is responsible for the development and
maintenance of the federal highway network, sections of which often enter and
traverse the urban areas. SCT's responsibilities extend into regulation of
road transport, although in the past few years substantial deregulation has
taken place, and in setting standards for highway design. Additionally, SCT
exercises administrative oversight over aviation and railways.
1.6      In addition to SEDESOL and SCT, the other federal agencies involved
with urban transport are the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP)
and the National Development Bank for Public Works and Services (BANOBRAS).
SHCP makes the budget recommendations to Congress, based on recommendations
made by and negotiations with the operating Secretariats. It is then
concerned with controlling the distribution of federal funds in line with the
approved budget. BANOBRAS is an important channel of federal funds to the
urban transport sector, through credits and loans to the states,
municipalities and operators of public transport.
1.7      For many large cities, the responsibility for transport and traffic
regulation, traffic engineering, traffic law enforcement, and short and medium
range land use/transport planning is divided among agencies at state and
municipal level, or between different departments within individual agencies
or even between different municipalities within the same metropolitan area.



-3-
This diversity sometimes results in agencies with shared responsibilities
having conflicting policies for a particular activity (para. 1.9).
C.   Sectoral Issues
1.8      Urban transport conditions vary between cities, but most are
affected by common problems.  These include:  (a) institutional weaknesses at
the federal, state and local levels; (b) limited availability of professional
staff with adequate technical skills; (c) lack of framework for transport
policy and planning; (d) outmoded and ineffective public transport regulatory
framework; (e) inadequate maintenance organizations and budgets; (f)
inadequate consideration of environmental issues; (g) lack of recognition of
the effectiveness of low-cost techniques in alleviating urban transport
problems; and (h) inadequate cost recovery, especially by public transport.
All these issues will be addressed in the Project. In the longer term, the
lack of planning and increased dependency on the private automobile could
result in the development of inefficient transport systems, and the eventual
need for costly remedial environmental actions.
1.9      Institutions.  At the federal level, no agency has to date been
assigned effective responsibility for urban transport policy and support.
While SEDESOL has been the normative authority for urban development, until
mid 1991 it had not focused on or maintained staff in the area of urban
transport. SCT has overall responsibilities in the transport sector, but it
does not have jurisdiction over matters concerning urban transport, except for
the location of railroad lines, airports and some federal highways, city
bypass and approach roads. As a result, few policy guidelines for federal
government assistance to the states and municipalities for urban transport
projects have been developed. Currently, most federal assistance is provided
on an ad hoc basis through direct negotiations between the SHCP and the
individual states and municipalities and is not subject to any systematic
evaluation (para. 1.14).
1.10     SEDESOL was formed at the end of May 1992 by the transformation of
SEDUE, the former Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology, which itself
was reorganized in 1991 to better execute its functions in relation to urban
transport policy formulation and to improve its efficiency in providing
technical assistance to the states and municipalities. SEDESOL is organized
in three sub-secretariats, one of which is for Urban Development and
Infrastructure, another for Regional Development and the third for Land and
Housing. The staff of the Subsecretariat for Urban Development and
Infrastructure comprises those of the previous Division of Urban
Infrastructure, most of whom have little experience of urban transport. The
project will provide both short and medium term technical assistance to the
new subsecretariat by financing consultants who will provide on-the-job
training to its staff (para. 2.11) as well as assistance in the preparation of
working manuals and technical guides.
1.11     In the past, BANOBRAS funded urban transport development mainly by
financing the purchase of buses, minibuses, combis and trucks rather than by
financing the provision of transport infrastructure. This role continues, but



- 4 -
in 1987, BANOBRAS was given responsibility for the execution of the First
Urban Transport Project (Loan 2824-ME) which provides assistance to the
metropolitan areas of the States of Mexico and Nuevo Leon, and for the
preparation of this project. Through the First Urban Transport Project,
BANOBRAS gained experience in the supervision of an urban transport loan, with
a main emphasis on infrastructure works. The participation of BANOBRAS in the
preparation of the present project was limited, mainly due to lack of
adequately trained staff. The increased role of SEDESOL in urban transport
development has confined BANOBRAS activities in the urban transport sector to
financing, procurement and contract administration. The project will provide
for institutional strengthening for BANOBRAS in respect of the management of
the financial aspects of transportation projects (para. 2.12).
1.12     At the state and city levels, urban transport matters are handled
through organizational arrangements that are often inadequate. Lack of
suitably trained professionals aggravates budgetary constraints in hiring
staff. In many cases the level of staffing, in terms of quantity and quality,
is inadequate. The formation of new, or the strengthening of existing,
planning and traffic engineering units in fast growing medium-size cities will
allow better planning for the future and as a consequence, result in better
use of the transport system. Where this approach is feasible, the agency
entrusted with urban transport responsibilities should preferably answer
directly to the municipality and not to the state or federal authorities, in
order to allow maximum participation and feedback from the population
concerned. This is in line with the decentralization policy of the federal
government (para. 2.2), as supported by the Bank (para. 2.3) and by this
project (para. 2.6).
1.13     The availability and skill level of traffic engineers and urban
transport economists is limited throughout the sector. The lack of
professionals is evident not only in the public sector (SEDESOL, BANOBRAS,
States and Municipalities) but also in the private sector and universities.
If this situation persists, the devolution of responsibilities to state and
municipal levels may be accompanied by declining professional standards, and
the current tendency to depend on costly, but conceptually simple, solutions
rather than on more imaginative, but less costly alternatives, will continue.
To address this problem, the Government has decided to give priority to the
development of professional and technical skills levels within the sector. An
extensive national training program, which will support the institutional
development programs in SEDESOL, BANOBRAS and the municipalities, has been
included in the project (para. 2.13).
1.14     Federal Resource Allocation and Financing.  Until this year there
have been no guidelines for the allocation of federal resources to the states
and cities to help finance urban transport projects, though substantial
amounts of assistance have been provided. After a particular urban transport
project has been identified, the municipality or state often lobbies the
federal government for direct financial assistance. These requests are
handled on an ad hoc basis. The issue is complicated further since there are
various sources of federal funding. Federal government financing of
development projects is provided through grants included in the annual
development agreements with the states and municipalities, other special



allocations and through loans given by BANOBRAS. Since federal grants have
not been allocated exclusively on the basis of the economic merits of the
projects, there has been little incentive to the municipalities to develop
comprehensive transport policies or to evaluate projects using sound
methodologies. The Program for Urban Transport in Medium-Size Cities
("Programa de Vialidad y Transporte Urbano para Ciudades Medias", PVT),
announced this year will be supported by the Project and will be an important
first step in addressing policies and proposals for the future development of
urban transport. Its main objectives are to:
(a)   improve the efficiency of urban transport services, within the
context of rational overall urban development and within a
logical administrative structure;
(b)   improve the financial viability of urban transport services;
(c)   reduce or mitigate the negative external effects of
inefficient urban transport, particularly the environmental
impacts; and
(d)   improve the level of transport service to the poor.
1.15     Transport Policy and Planning.  The preparation and implementation
of policies and programs for urban development is a complex process and beyond
the means and ability of most municipalities. Through the implementation of
the PVT, the Federal Government will now take a lead in developing
methodologies and tools to enable municipalities to prepare sound programs and
policies, and to assist in the evaluation of investment options. It also
intends to enforce financial discipline in the sector by conditioning federal
assistance to the preparation of sound urban transport development programs.
Until the implementation of the PVT, no federal agency was actively involved
in urban transport and the Federal Government provided little policy guidance
to the states or municipalities. To begin resolving this situation, the PVT
assigns clearly defined roles to SEDESOL and BANOBRAS and provides a suitable
policy framework in which to exercise those roles. The PVT is designed to
provide financial assistance, in the form of Federal grants and access to
federal loans, to cities meeting the city and project eligibility criteria.
Although the PVT and the Project are aimed at the medium-size cities, the PVT
also has provisions for financing a more modest level of transport development
in the economically important smaller medium cities which are just below the
lower threshold of the eligibility size criterion and will not be supported
by the Project.
1.16     The municipality eligibility criteria are listed in paras. 2.30 and
2.31 and described in more detail in Annex 1, together with the project
eligibility criteria. Initial criteria for determining eligibility for
participation in the project are that the municipality should: (a) have a
target population as defined in para. 2.30; (b) agree to prepare a
comprehensive Integral Transport Plan (ITP), which will indicate future
policies and investments; and (c) agree to a program of institutional
improvements as needed (see Annex 1). Eligibility for finance of the



- 6 -
principal investment plan will require completion of the ITP and
implementation of the institutional changes.
1.17     Under the PVT, finance for urban transport investment vill only be
provided to those municipalities which meet the criteria for Darticipation ln
the Program and only for proiects which meet the criteria for grant and loan
allocation. Since the Federal Government has agreed that federal investment
funds for urban transport projects in medium-size cities in future will not be
made available through other means, there is a strong incentive for
municipalities to comply with the criteria. The PVT and the Project apply the
same criteria for city and component eligibility and identify the same
responsibilities for project implementation.
1.18     Since urban transport responsibilities are often divided between
federal, state and municipal agencies, urban transport problems are rarely
considered from a comprehensive or integrated approach. As a result,
immediate problems may be resolved, but insufficient consideration is given to
alternative solutions, to the interaction of the solutions with other actual
or potential problems, or to the longer term implications of the recommended
solution. This broader consideration of urban transport issues will take time
to implement but the ITPs (paras. 2.14 through 2.18) that the Government will
require the municipalities to carry out, together with the conditions for
participation in the PVT (Annex 1), will be significant steps in improving the
quality of urban transport planning and investment.
1.19     Public Transport and Regulation.  The operation of bus systems is
also a pressing issue. Some of the most common problems include:
(a)  regulatory agencies do not operate effectively, are under-funded
and the staff are insufficiently trained. This can result in
changes in bus routes being slow to adapt to changing patterns
and levels of demand and the growth of the city;
(b)  fare policies are guided by social objectives, which result in
fare revenues insufficient to finance bus renewal. No provision
is made for higher quality services operated at higher than
minimum fares;
(c)  while most bus services are provided by the private sector,
entrance to markets is restricted and route concessions are
awarded in a non-transparent manner. Local monopolies prevent
the award of concessions to new operators. Lack of effective
competition leads to inefficient bus operation;
(d)  bus fleets are often in poor condition and provide little
customer comfort and convenience (see (b) above); and
(e)  buses have an adverse impact on the environment (noise and
exhaust/smoke emissions); these problems are worat in central
areas of cities, where traffic congestion occurs. The
replacement of existing vehicles with new environmentally



- 7 -
friendlier ones is made difficult by the fare constraints (see
(b) above).
1.20    The standard response of most city officials to these problems is to
promote the replacement of existing buses and expansion of the fleet, with
subsidized loans to operators. While this resolves some of the problems in
the short term, change to the regulatory and organizational regime becomes
crucial if effective long term improvements are to be made in the bus system.
It is not easy for a municipal authority to break the pattern of issuing
permits only to current operators or to introduce other forms of competition
for or within markets. Instead of improving the regulatory system and
providing market incentives, easier solutions are sometimes sought by
subsidizing new vehicle purchases, introducing the public ownership of buses
or developing expensive mass transit systems and/or high capacity highways.
This leads to an inefficient allocation of resources. The Project will
encourage regulatory and tariff reform by: (a) identifying deficiencies in
the current systems and recommending and implementing changes; and (b)
requiring acceptable economic and financial evaluations of all investment
proposals, including loans for vehicle purchase, made during the period of the
implementation of the ITPs (para. 2.20 (c)).
1.21    Maintenance.  The condition of urban streets varies between
municipalities, but is generally poor through a lack of maintenance.
Maintenance has less political visibility than new construction, and is among
the first activities to be reduced in times of financial austerity. Most
municipalities are not well organized to deal with road or traffic signals
maintenance. Improvement of the maintenance of urban transport infrastructure
will be an essential component of the ITP for each municipality (para. 2.20
(e)).
1.22    In most cities, two particular agencies with maintenance
responsibilities are likely to require strengthening - the local highway
agency (Junta Local de Caminos) for road maintenance and the traffic
engineering agency or traffic police for traffic signals. As far as
possible, maintenance operations should be contracted to the private sector,
as the evidence from many countries is that this is a more efficient solution
than public provision, and there is ample capacity in the country to provide
such services. Evidence of the higher efficiency of private contractors in
providing maintenance services comes from cities in which the municipal agency
was required to compete with private operators for maintenance contracts. In
many cases, the municipal agency was only able to compete effectively when
special contractual conditions were allowed. The Project will attempt to
develop the abilities of the city maintenance organizations to plan, manage
and supervise the maintenance works, by requiring the establishment of
adequate maintenance organizations, the provision of sufficient budgets and
the preparation and implementation of maintenance plans (para. 2.20 (a) and
2.20 (e)).
1.23    Environment.  The transport induced air quality problems in the
medium-size cities are presently less severe than in Mexico City, which
confronts unique topographical conditions and an inordinate concentration of
population. Nevertheless, the problems are of concern in many medium-size



- 8 -
cities and will become more pressing as the cities grow. There is evidence
that national air quality standards are already being exceeded in the central
areas of some medium-size cities. Three types of measure to reduce traffic
induced pollution will be included in the ITPs: (a) those to better implement
the regulation of vehicle emissions; (b) those to reduce traffic congestion,
and; (c) those to encourage non-motorized transport. With the benefit of
experience from the implementation of tougher vehicle emission controls in
Mexico City, supported by the TAQM project, it will be possible to determine
how best to control such emissions in the medium-size cities. Lower polluting
emissions from vehicles should also result from the expected reduction in
traffic congestion and increased vehicle speeds anticipated as a result of the
implementation of the civil engineering components of the project.
Encouraging the use of non-motorized transport is the third way to reduce
vehicle induced pollution. The proposed sub-project for Leon, a city with an
already high cycle use, includes the development of a network of cycle ways.
The usefulness of measures which will give priority to non-motorized transport
will be reviewed in the studies for preparing the ITPs, and where appropriate,
proposals for their implementation will be included in the sub-projects for
each municipality.
1.24    While urban bus transport is promoted because of its high efficiency
in transporting passengers, this policy is often offset by policies to reduce
or eliminate buses from the city centers, because of their dilapidated
physical conditions, loud noise, and smoke emissions. At present, SEDESOL has
issued emission standards for passenger cars and light-duty trucks (up to
about 4.0 tons gross vehicle weight). The emission standards for minibuses,
medium-duty vehicles and heavy-duty diesel engines are under preparation, with
technical support to be provided under the TAQM project, and are scheduled to
be issued early in 1993. The studies to produce the ITPs will review options
for the enforcement of these standards (para. 2.20 (f)).
1.25    Urban transport has at least three other environmental impacts,
noise, community segregation and visual intrusion. Until the basic research
has been completed, the scale of these problems in particular medium-size
cities is unknown. The lack of consistent and comprehensive design standards
for road construction in urban areas makes it improbable that environmental
considerations have featured prominently in the design of urban highways and
streets. The Terms of Reference for the studies to prepare the ITPs include a
review of the existing conditions in each of the three aspects of
environmental concern and a requirement to recommend amelioratory measures
where they are causing, or are projected to cause, significant problems (para.
2.20 (f)).
1.26    In the longer term, the improved transport planning and traffic
engineering capabilities of the cities, combined with the application of new,
more stringent vehicle emission regulations, should provide for a more
permanent improvement in air quality. Starting next model year, new
automobiles will be required to have a catalytic converter and meet US
emission standards, and standards for heavier vehicles, also compatible with
US standards, are under preparation by SEDESOL. These improvements will come
about in the context of the Bank's overall program of support to the GOM to
address air pollution issues. This includes an extended co-financing



arrangement with EXIMBANK of Japan, which is financing refinery conversions to
produce unleaded gasoline (OECF-Japan is financing a program for
desulfurization of diesel), an on-going Bank loan to strengthen SEDESOL in its
role as environmental agency (Loan ME-3461), and the proposed TAQM project in
support of a comprehensive program to address the pollution problems of the
MCMA.
1.27    While the net benefits of the above program will be substantially
positive, it may bring about some negative consequences for urban areas
outside the MCMA. The positive consequences will derive from new federal
vehicle emission standards, revised automotive fuel specifications, increased
experience in the control of air quality and in the inspection and maintenance
of vehicles to control emissions. The possible negative consequences will
derive from the part of the program which requires the progressive replacement
of all older public service and freight vehicles in the MCMA and the
encouragement in the use of lead-free gasoline. The first part of the program
will create a pool of older high-use vehicles which could only be used
commercially outside the MCMA. The program is expected to lead to the
replacement of 25,000 taxis, 10,000 trucks and 3,000 minibuses in the period
1993 to 1996. While some of these will be scrapped, others are likely to find
their way into other urban areas. If these vehicles are transferred to the
medium-size cities, they could lead to a potential worsening of the air
quality in those cities. Careful monitoring of vehicle registrations and air
quality levels will be required to assess the impact of this program in the
medium-size cities. Such monitoring is envisaged as part of the studies for
the preparation of the ITPs. Where negative results of the policy are
observed, the ITPs will propose remedial measures.
1.28    The encouragement of the use of unleaded gasoline (magna sin) in
vehicles in the MCMA, through emissions regulations and a more appropriate
pricing policy than that at present, should result in beneficial results for
all of the country, not only in the MCMA. The expansion of PEMEX's production
capabilities (para. 1.26) should resolve remaining supply constraints,
identified in a study undertaken in preparation for the TAQM project.
1.29    Low Cost Solutions.  The lack of a proper organizational structure
for urban transport planning and operation, and a lack of sufficient
professional staff at municipal, state and Federal levels results in little
consideration being given to low cost solutions to urban transport problems.
These solutions include traffic management measures, parking policies, bus-
ways, bus route rationalization, pedestrian streets, and intersection
improvements by cost-effective designs. In many cities, the first solution
sought to relieve city center traffic congestion is often the construction of
additional road capacity and the banning of buses from the center. In other
cases, the construction of a metro or light rail system is seen as a suitable
solution (as in Guadalajara and Monterrey). In the whole of Mexico only one
small section of segregated busways exists, and most other non-segregated
busways are not strictly implemented, even though over 80Z of all urban
motorized trips in Mexico are made by bus and the creation of well planned and
implemented busways is one of the most cost effective measures available to
improve urban public transport. The project has already made progress in
bringing this type of cost effective solution to the notice of municipal



- 10 -
authorities. The ITPe so far completed have placed emphasis on management
measures rather than construction of new works to resolve problems of road
congestion. The sub-project component eligibility criteria (Annex 1) require
that all schemes should be economically viable. This condition not only
requires that the schemes have an acceptable economic rate of return (greater
than 12x), but that all reasonable other solutions, and particularly those
with lower investment costs, have been considered and found to have lower
rates of return.
1.30    Cost recovery.  Transport taxes and fees are levied both at the
federal level (for example, fuel taxes), and at the state level (for example,
bus concession fees). It is standard practice in Mexico for municipalities
and states to have the power to levy betterment charges to beneficiaries of
access road and other paving components. However, in many cases the potential
charges are not imposed and in others, the valuations of properties, on which
the charge is based, are unrealistic. Under the project, cost-recovery for
new major road construction, road maintenance and traffic management, will
take place indirectly through the imposition of betterment charges and other
local taxes and fees. As part of the Project, the revenue generation effect
of financial mechanisms currently being used in each city to recover the cost
of infrastructure improvements will be evaluated and recommendations made for
ensuring an acceptable level of cost recovery in the future (para. 2.17).
1.31        Although few municipalities, if any, provide subsidies to bus
operators, bus fares are usually controlled by state governments. Present
fare levels do not usually allow for an adequate operating profit, and as a
result, many bus operators are not undertaking fleet renewal and the level of
service is generally poor. The terms of reference for the studies to prepare
the ITPs will include reviews of public transport regulations and projections
of the financial viability of bus operations following the implementation of
any proposed regulatory changes and the completion of proposed infrastructure
investments (para. 2.20 (c)).
D.   Lessons Learned from Past Projects
1.32    No Bank-financed urban transport projects have yet been completed in
Mexico, but the First Urban Transport Project (Loan 2824-ME) has been under
implementation since 1987. Although implementation has been improving, and
the project is expected to meet most of its objectives in the State of Mexico,
it has experienced a number of difficulties, including the cancellation of the
part of the project related to the State of Nuevo Leon, due to lack of
counterpart funds, which resulted from a decision by the municipality of
Monterrey to invest in a light rail system, contrary to the Bank's advice.
For the State of Mexico, a recently agreed Action Plan is expected to
accelerate the preparation of final engineering design and bid documents.
Until recently, this has been slow, partially as a result of lack of in-house
professional capacity and partially as a result of insufficient familiarity
with the Bank's procurement procedures. As regards to the other components,
the long-term planning studies and technical assistance have not proven to be
particularly successful and institutional strengthening has been slower than
expected, partly attributable to the lack of trained and experienced staff in



- 11 -
the relevant agencies. The Federal component, under the responsibility of
BANOBRAS, experienced the following difficulties; insufficient level of
technical assistance consultants and lack of programmed, on-the-job training
for BANOBRAS staff, insufficient professional personnel, and, until recently,
conflicts within BANOBRAS regarding distribution of responsibilities between
different divisions. Although these problems are now largely resolved, they
have provided a valuable experience in the design of the project. On the
other hand, the Federal District component has been quite successful in that
low-polluting motors have been provided for more than 1,300 buses, but the bus
operator has decided not to implement the sub-component to improve maintenance
facilities.
1.33    To build also upon the experience of urban transport projects in
other countries, an analysis of relevant "Lessons Learned" was undertaken.
The review was based on fifteen Project Completion Reports and/or Project
Audit Reports (PCR/PPAR) in the urban transport and development sectors
worldwide. Recognition was made of trends and changes in Bank policy and
project design since the PCR/PPAR's were completed. The main lessons
identified both during the implementation of the on-going Urban Transport
Project and the analysis of the fifteen PCRs, and the consequent actions in
the Project, are:
(a)  Institutional strengthening:  Weak organizations not only limit the
implementation of transport policies, but also inhibit efforts at
their own reform. Under the project it is proposed to reorganize
and strengthen the organizations dealing with urban transport, at
the federal, state and municipal levels (paras. 2.11 and 2.12);
(b)  Lack of counterpart funding has greatly influenced the pace of
project implementation and in extreme cases has led to cancellation
of components. A balance must be obtained between the promotion of
sound financial practices in participating cities and the lack, at
least in the short term, of municipal financial resources. The
financial mix of up to 35% federal grant, at least 18% municipal
participation and up to 50% (Annex 8) will reduce the scale of
municipal counterpart funding to a feasible level and provide
incentives for participation;
(c)  Slower than expected implementation occurred for a variety of
reasons, including lack of familiarity with Bank procedures,
optimistic scheduling at appraisal, lack of final engineering
designs at appraisal and changes in political commitment and lack
of counterpart funds. These problems will be mitigated in the
Project by such measures as: (a) the strengthening of BANOBRAS'
capacity for financial management (para. 2.12); (b) including the
finance for final engineering design of civil works in the ITPs;
and (c) including a grant element in the financing plan, which will
encourage municipalities to continue their participation in the
Program, regardless of political changes (Annex 8);
(d)  Weak institutions in the planning, design and implementation of
traffic and highway projects has been a common feature of many



- 12 -
projects. In this project, each municipality will have to
demonstrate that their organizational structure is capable of
managing the tasks assigned to it, and that it has the capacity to
fulfill these functions on a permanent basis, before becoming
eligible for the principal sub-loan (para. 2.31 (i)). In addition,
the ITPs will include analyses of institutional arrangements and
make proposals for their improvement (para. 2.20 (a));
(e) Lack of enforcement of traffic regulations, coupled with poor
maintenance, are additional reasons why some schemes failed to
achieve their full potential. In this project, schemes will be
designed to be, as far as practical "self enforcing" and physical
rather than regulatory methods of traffic control will be
encouraged. Participating municipalities will need to ensure that
components involving traffic regulation include operational
specifications which are acceptable to the traffic police and that
the police are prepared to undertake enforcement. If necessary,
sub-projects could finance additional equipment for enforcement
(para. 2.23 (c));
(f) Public transport operations have been found to be inefficient
particularly when operated by public enterprises. Improving their
efficiency has received increasing emphasis in Bank projects and it
will be an important aim of this project to improve public
transport operations. Efforts will concentrate on improving the
regulatory framework to encourage efficient and competitive bus
operations and improving the infrastructure to enable buses to
operate at an acceptable level of service. The system of route
licensing as operated in most cities is very inflexible and slow to
react to changing patterns of demand. The ITPs will include
reviews of the licensing system and of the finances of public
transport operations and include recommendations to increase their
flexibility of operation (para. 2.20 (c)).
(g) Lack of consideration of environmental impacts was found to be a
feature of most previous projects. The inclusion of assessments of
current transport related environmental conditions in the ITPs, and
for an environmental impact assessment of all proposed investments
(para. 2.31 (f)) will ensure that these issues were given
appropriate significance in the Project.
(h) Lack of maintenance was a serious shortcoming of early urban
transport projects. The Project will require a commitment and plan
of action from the municipalities to develop a road and signals
maintenance capability as a condition of on-lending (para. 2.31
(e)) and the ITPs will include the establishment of a road pavement
management system and the financing of road rehabilitation works
and deferred road maintenance actions (para. 2.20 (e)).



- 13 -
II.   THE PROJECT
A.   Origin
2.1      The Project was identified during the preparation of the First Urban
Transport Project in 1986, aimed at the larger metropolitan areas of Monterrey
and the State of Mexico. It will focus on the fast-growing medium-size cities
and the small-medium size cities of particular economic importance including
those on the USA/Mexico border. Project preparation work was carried out by
consultants and has been reviewed by preparation missions since 1989.
Appraisal took place in January/February 1992. Negotiations were completed on
November 13, 1992.
B.   Sector Strategy and the Rationale for and Objectives of Bank Involvement
2.2      Sector Strategy:  Mexico's urban population growth, the rapid
increase in urban motorization and a heritage of deferred maintenance and
inadequate investment expenditures, have all contributed to a pressing need to
improve the condition of urban services and infrastructure. The situation is
most acute in the MCMA, but is also rapidly becoming a problem in the medium
size cities, where both human and capital resources are more limited. The
government's strategy to address these problems was outlined in the National
Development and Urban Development Plan for 1990-1994, and comprises the
following priority actions:
(a)     Decentralization:  to promote the orderly transfer of
operational and financial responsibilities for urban services
and infrastructure provision and maintenance from federal and
state governments to municipal governments, and assist the
latter to administer these functions. This will increase the
responsibility and accountability of local officials and so
improve the cost effectiveness and delivery of essential
services;
(b)     Unification of federal assistance:  to provide federal
assistance to states and municipal governments under
standardized criteria and conditions;
(c)     Public Transport:  to stimulate public transport,
particularly through private sector participation;
(d)     Improve operational efficiency:  to improve the operational
efficiency of existing infrastructure, with an emphasis on
short-term, low-cost management programs and policies, and
(e)     Maintenance:  to adequately maintain the existing urban
infrastructure and traffic control facilities.
2.3      The Bank's urban development strategy, as outlined in the
Decentralization and Urban Management Urban Sector Study (Report 8924-ME, July



- 14 -
1991), supports this policy of progressive and functional devolution of
responsibilities to municipal governments. Ongoing projects supporting the
policy are the Water Supply and Sanitation project (Loan 3271-ME) and the
Housing Finance project (Loan 2947-ME) projects, as well as the First Urban
Transport project (Loan 2824-HE). The Municipal Strengthening Project (Loan
2666-ME) was aimed specifically at strengthening the federal and state
agencies active in the area of municipal development, by building up the
municipalities' organizational, administrative and financial management
systems, and assisting them to expand and upgrade their urban infrastructure.
In July 1992, a reformulation of the project, to provide urgent help in the
reconstruction of Guadalajara, was approved by the Board. During FY93, the
Bank will undertake reviews of the government strategies for urban development
and the transport sector and develop further measures in their support. These
measures will provide both a policy framework for the longer term
implementation of the ITPs and useful inputs to the annual implementation
reviews of the Project.
2.4      Rationale for Bank involvement:  The government has recently launched
the "Programa de Cien Ciudades," (PCC) - the "Program of 100 Cities" - its
program to strengthen the administration to and improve the infrastructure of
the medium and small-medium cities. This program has five components of which
the PVT is one, the others relating to land use, city center rehabilitation,
federal land and environmental considerations. Through the PVT (para. 1.14),
the federal government has committed itself to become more active in providing
policy guidance and to rationalize its financial assistance to urban
transport. The PVT and the broader development objective of the PCC are in
line with Bank sector policy and the GOM is seeking Bank support for it.
2.5      Bank participation will help to ensure that the PVT builds upon the
experience gained and the lessons learned from urban transport projects in
other countries (para. 1.33). In this respect, the Project addresses, inter
alia, the need for: (a) improved maintenance organizations through
institutional strengthening; (b) availability of counterpart funds through an
improved federal and local financing mix; (c) speed of addressing
implementation concerns through clear city participation eligibility criteria;
(d) improving public transport through infrastructure and regulatory measures;
and (e) recognizing environmental impacts through their inclusion in city
participation eligibility criteria. As Mexico successfully consolidates its
stabilization programs and expands its modernization efforts to new areas, the
Bank's lending strategy is to support such efforts by focusing its operations
on poverty alleviation, environmental improvement and infrastructure
rehabilitation and development to support economic growth. The Project fits
these priorities well and the Bank's experience in institutional development,
and its ability to consider a broad range of issues in an integrated framework
provide a further rationale for the Bank's involvement in the project.
2.6      Objectives of Bank involvement:  Urban transport in Mexico is
underdeveloped and in need of restructuring if the rapidly growing medium-size
cities are not to become choked with an unmanaged explosion in the volume of
road traffic. The main objectives of the Project are to improve the quality
and efficiency of urban transport systems in medium-size cities, to assist the
Federal Government in decentralizing responsibility, to finance improvements



- 15 _
that are economically justified and to control the environmental impacts of
urban transport operations. Specifically, the Project will help to: (a)
strengthen the local and national institutions responsible for planning and
managing urban transport systems in medium-size cities; (b) improve the
operational efficiency of the existing urban transport networks; and (c)
improve sector planning; this should result in improved resource allocation
within the sector, better infrastructure maintenance, better public transport
particularly for low-income users, and enhanced consideration of environmental
factors in sector investments, as well the development of facilities for non-
motorized transport.
2.7      These are ambitious objectives and may be difficult to achieve fully
within the period of execution of the Project. It is expected that the
Project will lay a sound basis for the development of the sector by providing
institutional strengthening, training and encouraging a more rigorous analysis
of urban transport. This should provide for project sustainability. Hence
the project risks (para. 2.68) are felt to be significantly outweighed by the
expected development impact.
C.   Description
2.8      The Project includes two parts:  Part A - national programs and Part
B - local level programs. Part A of the project will only account for some 2%
of the costs (US$7.8 million, including contingencies and taxes), but will be
critical to the achievement of the policy and institutional objectives, as it
is designed to address the role of the Federal Government in providing policy
and technical guidance to the municipalities, as well as training for
professional staff. It will consist of four components: (a) an institutional
strengthening program in SEDESOL 1/; (b) an institutional strengthening
program in BANOBRAS; (c) a national urban transport sector training program;
and (d) assistance towards the preparation of ITPs in the participating
municipalities.
2.9      Part B of the project will account for about 98% of the cost
(US$463.3 million, including contingencies and taxes), providing a line of
credit (for sub-lending) to individual medium-size municipalities/
states for city sub-projects. The participation of each municipality or state
will constitute a sub-project under which they will be eligible for up to
three sub-loans, each of which will finance one of the following interrelated
activities: (a) the studies needed to prepare the ITPs (Part B1); (b)
immediate actions, whose delay in waiting for the completion of the ITP will
result in higher costs and/or losses of significant benefits (Part B2), and
(c) the implementation of the physical and institutional recommendations of
the ITPs (Part B3), including changes in the institutional responsibilities
for urban transport activities, regulatory changes, civil works, traffic
management and environmental control measures, further studies, training, and
final design of civil works and equipment specification. All participating
municipalities will be required to undertake an ITP (Part Bl). Sub-loans for
1/ Ibe Bank is also auistin SEDESOL to develop it capabilities in the Environmental Project (Loan 346 I-ME), approved in April 1992.



- 16 -
Part B2 will only be provided as needed and sub-loans for Part B3 will be
conditional on the compliance with the project specific on-lending conditions
(para. 2.31).
2.10     The four components of Part A and three components of Part B of the
Project are described in the following paragraphs.
2.11     PART A.1 - SEDESOL Strengthening (US$4.3 million):  SEDESOL has the
dual roles of a normative agency, which formulates federal policy in urban
transportation and provides technical assistance to the states and
municipalities to achieve policy goals, and a project executing agency, with
responsibility for overall project supervision, co-ordination, evaluation and
monitoring. The Direccion General de Infraestructura y Equipamiento (DGIE -
the Department of Infrastructure and Equipment) will be responsible for
management of the Project. To help it fulfill both of its roles, an
institutional strengthening program has been designed that will include the
following components, which are described in more detail in Annex 2.
SEDESOL's commitment to implementing the strengthening program was confirmed
at negotiations (para. 3.1 (a)).
(a)         Restructuring and staffing of the DGIE:  Although the
permanent staff of DGIE includes some experienced
professionals, many of them lack sufficient experience to
manage a program such as the PVT. The work load of DGIE will
be unusually high during the first two years of the Project.
Provision is included within the project for 125 man months
of local, temporary professional staff to help meet this
requirement during this period. Agreement to the contracting
of the full complement of 20 counterpart staff, and a
commitment to keep all positions filled as necessary, at
least until the end of the project, was confirmed at
negotiations (para. 3.1 (a)). The initial placement of all
these staff will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.2
(a)).
(b)         Technical assistance to DGIE:  The Project will provide 75
man months of technical assistance to strengthen the DGIE in
the critical first 15 months of operation of the PVT, and up
to a further 70 man months during the remainder of the
project. The first annual implementation review will assess
the needs for this further assistance. The first 40 months
have already been initiated and adequate counterpart staff
are already in place. During the execution of this technical
assistance the following will be prepared: (a) a data base
of current and planned urban transport projects; (b) a plan
of action to ensure that all projects seeking federal
financing are subjected to adequate evaluation procedures;
(c) updated design manuals for urban transport infrastructure
and for the economic, financial and environmental evaluation
of sub-projects and sub-project components, and (d) a full
financing plan for urban transport in the medium and medium-
small size cities. Guidelines have already been prepared for



- 17 -
assessing, monitoring and treating environmental conditions
resulting from transport activities in the participating
cities-overall air quality and vehicle emissions, traffic
noise, visual intrusion.
(c)         Equipment and software:  The equipment which will be provided
to SEDESOL will comprise office equipment--micro-computers,
printers, plotters, communications equipment, and software--
so that it could fulfill its function of advising and
supervising the production of ITPs by the municipalities and
states. When the PVT is fully developed, with up to twelve
cities undertaking and implementing their ITPs at the same
time, the supervision task will demand a high level of
technology if it is to function efficiently. Project
management software will be provided by adapting already
available software to the specific needs of SEDESOL.
(d)         External consultant services:  During the preparation and
implementation of the ITPs it is inevitable that additional
needs will arise for specialized technical assistance. This
assistance will be provided directly to SEDESOL, and through
them, indirectly to the states and municipalities that might
require it. The tasks could include advice on the design of
traffic surveys, road safety systems and on the establishment
of data bases and information and management control systems,
the implementation of vehicle emission control standards, and
the implementation of public transport regulations. The
particular requirements for specialized technical assistance
will be defined in each ITP, taking account of the specific
needs of the municipality. The Project will provide for up
to 105 man months of specialized technical assistance
services.
2.12     PART A2 - BANOBRAS Strengthening (US$0.5 million):  BANOBRAS will
have responsibility for loan administration, procurement supervision and
financial monitoring of the project and the sub-projects. An institutional
strengthening program for BANOBRAS, which will finance consultant technical
assistance (up to 80 man months), equipment and software, was agreed at
appraisal (Annex 3). Satisfactory terms of reference for the technical
assistance to BANOBRAS have been received and BANOBRAS has started the
placement of additional counterpart staff for the management of this Project.
Commitments to carry out BANOBRAS's strengthening program and keep the places
filled until the end of the Project were obtained at negotiations (para. 3.1
(a)). A condition of effectiveness is that BANOBRAS contract all counterpart
staff as shown in the schedule in Annex 3 (para. 3.2 (a)).
2.13     PART A3 - National Training Program (US$2.2 million):  A national
training program is included in the Project. Its objective is to increase the
capabilities of staff now working in the urban transport sector in activities
such as traffic and transport planning, project evaluation, project execution,
traffic operations and maintenance. The program will benefit staff from the
municipalities and states, from national agencies (SEDESOL, SHCP and



- 18 -
BANOBRAS), and from local consulting firms on a fee paying basis. The
training program will consist of three main stages: (a) an intensive four-
month course at post-graduate level for traffic/transport engineers,
economists and urban planners; (b) a series of updating courses and regional
seminars given periodically for professionals, technicians and managers; and
(c) overseas post-graduate studies for a selected group of participants in the
initial intensive course. The general content, organizational and
implementation arrangements were confirmed at negotiations (para. 3.1 (b)).
The bidding of the Intensive Course is already under way in accordance with
Bank guidelines. An acceptable draft contract for provision of the Intensive
Course has already been presented to the Bank and signing of the contract
would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.2 (b)).
2.14     PART A4 - Integral Transport Plans (US$ 0.8 million):  The first
activity of any municipality intending to participate in the Project will be
the preparation of an ITP, described in more detail below. Part A4 of the
Project will allow SEDESOL to finance up to 25Z of the cost of these studies
through grants, the remainder being financed through sub-loans to the
municipalities. Satisfactory generic terms of reference for the studies to
prepare the ITPs have been received by the Bank. These will be modified to
meet the particular requirements of each participating city. An average of
100 man months has been allowed for the preparation of each ITP, with 80%
being provided by national consultants.
2.15     Part BI - Integral Transport Plans (US$4.0 million):  The preparation
of ITPs will be probably the most important component of the whole project,
since they will result in a significant change in the approach to urban
transport decision making, and their successful implementation will signify
achievement of some of the fundamental changes sought in the supply of urban
transport services. The objective of the ITPs will be to produce coherent
sets of proposals for short and medium term actions and investments to ensure,
so far as is possible, that the development of urban transport will provide
for the needs of the population. This will be achieved by institutional
reform and training, as well by implementing coordinated infrastructure
investment plans. Urban transportation involves interaction between roads and
streets, private and public vehicles, parking, traffic management and control,
pedestrians and mass transit, including buaways and in some cases, light-rail
and metros as well as relationships between transport and land use. The ITPs
will take account of these interactions and provide an integrated framework
for their implementation.
2.16     All transport planning activities have consequences for the physical
environment, either positive or negative, from the impact of vehicle emissions
on air quality, through traffic noise, the visual intrusion and physical
segregation of communities by new roads, to the re-establishment of the
atmosphere of historic city centers by the exclusion of vehicular traffic.
The interactions of the various activities, together with their environmental
impacts will be taken into account in the development of the ITPs. In the
course of preparation of the ITPs, the institutional framework under which
urban transport activities are planned, directed, regulated and controlled
will be reviewed.  Recommendations will be made for improvements in these
respects, which will be implemented in Part B3 (a) of the project (para. 2.20



- 19 -
(f)). In addition to the planning and institutional aspects of the studies,
the ITPs will provide an analysis of the current and projected financial
status of public transport operators, and provide for the final engineering
and/or technical specification for components of the investment plans.
2.17     Although most municipalities have some mechanism, such as a
betterment tax, for recovering a proportion of project costs from direct
beneficiaries, these rarely recover more than a small fraction of their
potential revenue. There are various explanations for this lack, ranging from
political reluctance to impose the relevant charges to inadequate and outdated
property valuation data. The ITPs will include a financing scheme for the
proposed investments, which will show a reliable funding source for each
component of the sub-project. The agreed generic Terms of Reference of the
ITPa include a requirement to review current cost recovery programs, and if
they are found to generate revenue equivalent to less than 40% of the average
annual transport investment cost, the ITPs will include proposalst including
implementation procedures and time schedules, which will achieve this recovery
rate, which will usually be within three years of the implementation of the
proposals.
2.18     The city eligibility criteria require BANOBRAS to demonstrate that
the municipality or state which will receive any loan will have the financial
capacity to cover any counterpart expenditure and to service loan charges.
The review of financial capacity will be made by BANOBRAS, and will take
account of all projected financial commitments of the municipality or state
during the period of amortization of the sub-loans to be contracted as part of
each sub-project.
2.19     Part B2 - Urgent civil works (US$45.3 million):  Many of the
municipalities have been waiting for years for funds to finance what are now
urgently needed projects. Further delay in their implementation will result
in a significant loss of social welfare, so it would be unreasonable to wait
for the formulation of an ITP before starting them. This project category
will provide for the financing of the preparation of final designs or product
specifications acceptable to the Bank, and the implementation of such designs
or the purchase of such equipment. To be acceptable to the Bank, the designs
or specifications should meet Mexican standards, or where these do not exist,
a standard previously agreed with the Bank. The projects will need to satisfy
the same investment criteria as investment projects to be included in the
ITPF, including provision of a positive environmental assessment, other than
necessarily being part of an ITP. Finance will be provided through specific
sub-loans to the municipalities. The maximum cost of the immediate action
plan for any municipality will be US$5.0 million.
2.20     Part B3 (a) - Implementation of the recommendations of the ITPs
(US$363.1 million): The ITPa will incorporate plans for policy and
institutional changes in addition to those required as conditionality for on-
lending, and for investments in the following six interrelated areas of urban
transport activity as well as further studies. Failure to implement the
policy and institutional plans of the ITP will be an event of default under
the sub-loan. The related ITP proposals for training and further studies, as



- 20 -
well as the final design of the civil works, will be financed under Part B3
(b) and equipment purchases under Part B3 (c):
(a)     Institutional Reform:  will be aimed at rationalizing and
increasing the efficiency of the arrangements for transport
planning, public transport operations, and the implementation
of transport regulations. The reforms will include: (a) the
establishment of an organizational structure with clearly
defined responsibilities for transport planning, traffic
management, formulation and implementation of transport
regulations and maintenance of transport infrastructure; (b)
restructuring of the regulatory authorities for public
transport services and vehicle and driver licensing; (c)
proposals to improve the enforcement of traffic and traffic
management regulations; and (d) reforms to create and/or
improve road maintenance capabilities of the municipalities
and other agencies responsible for road maintenance within
the municipal boundaries. In addition, this section of the
ITP will include proposals for further training, based on the
needs identified in the analyses in the other sections of the
ITP. The training will be in addition to that included under
Parts A4 and Bl of the project and be aimed at the specific
needs of each municipality. The training program could
include courses on traffic management, road safety, public
transport regulation, urban highway design, environmental
control and municipal finance and administration;
(b)     Traffic Management Measures:  will focus on making the best
use of the existing transport infrastructure through traffic
management methods. These will include the application of
traffic systems management techniques to key routes and
areas, particularly to city and district centers, and include
traffic circulation schemes, parking policies, junction
improvements, traffic signal control systems, pedestrian
schemes and accident countermeasures. Priority measures and
investment proposals for the benefit of cycle users will be
included in this component. Physical measures will be
supported by the necessary policy and enforcement actions
essential for their success. The terms of reference for the
ITPs will require that the policy and enforcement actions,
including strengthening of the enforcement agencies, be
spelled out and implemented. Most of the improvements are
expected to yield immediate results at relatively low costs.
Any proposals for further studies of traffic management will
be included in this section and will include the terms of
reference for such studies;
(c)     Public Transport measures:  will seek to improve the quality,
supply, and economic and financial viability of bus services
through: (a) route reorganization, concession and revisions
of tariff structures and levels. The tariff revisions will
be designed to give operators the possibility of operating



- 21 -
different qualities of service at different tariffs and to
earn revenue sufficient to adequately to maintain their
vehicles, replace them at appropriate intervals and show an
adequate return on invested capital; (b) paving of bus access
roads in low income areas poorly served by public transport;
and (c) development of bus priority measures and facilities
which will be integrated with the components of Traffic
Management described in (b) above. Proposals including terms
of reference, for further studies of issues relating to
public transport will be included in this section of the ITP.
Any proposals to use municipal funds or guarantees to assist
in financing public transport vehicle purchases will need to
be supported by acceptable economic and financial
assessments, showing that the investments will be
economically justifiable and profitable for the operator
under the subsidized conditions but not under available
commercial loan rates, even though the implementation of such
proposals will not be financed by the Project. Investment
plans which included uses of municipal funds for loans or
guarantees which did not satisfy these conditions will not be
acceptable for financing through the sub-loan for this part
of the Project;
(d)     Corridor Improvements:  will be aimed at increasing the
capacity of major corridors to meet existing and future
travel demands. Corridor improvements involving the paving
of access roads to low income areas will form a specific sub-
component, as the majority of their benefits will be to
public transport users and operators. Other components under
this category will include: (a) the elimination of
"bottlenecks" through junction improvements; (b) the
development of selected new roads to correct structural
weaknesses in the network which may involve "missing links"
or completion of ring roads; and (c) the strengthening of
contract management and supervision administration;
(e)     Haintenance system improvements:  will aim at preserving
transport infrastructure and facilities such as roads,
traffic signals and traffic control devices. Adequate
maintenance will avoid the need for more expensive
reconstruction at a later date, and reduce vehicle operating
costs as its principal benefit. Depending on the particular
needs of each municipality, elements will include: (a) the
establishment of a road pavement management system; and (b)
the financing of road rehabilitation works and deferred road
maintenance actions. The establishment of necessary
institutional arrangements will be included in component (a)
described above; and
(f)     Environmental assessment and control:  will be aimed at
implementing adequate systems for the continual assessment of
air quality standards and control of vehicle emissions, as



- 22 -
well as establishing and implementing norms related to
vehicle noise, the visual intrusion of transport
infrastructure and traffic and the community segregation
resulting from highway construction and expansion. The air
quality assessment and control measures and procedures vill
be based on those developed in the preparation of the TAQM
project, as modified in the experience of their
implementation. The SEDESOL vehilel emission standards for
minibuses and trucks will be added to those already in
existence for cars before the end of 1992, so they will be
available by the time the second group of ITP. are completed.
The ITPs will include proposals for the purchase of necessary
equipment and facilities for ensuring that vehicles meet
these standards, for the purchase of equipment, and for the
training of personnel to assess air quality standards. The
proposed norms for the control of traffic noise, visual
intrusion and community severance will be based on a review
of existing conditions in the municipality and the
interpretation of norms successfully implemented elsewhere.
The norms will include a requirement for an environmental
assessment of all civil works and for the application of
amelioratory measures where any adverse effects might
otherwise result. The norms will be applied to all projects
recommended in the ITP.
2.21     Part B3 (b) - Final design, technical assistance and training
(US$41.6 million): This sub-component will finance: (a) the final design of
the sub-project components included in the ITPs; (b) further studies and
technical assistance to the municipalities, as recommended in the ITPs, up to
a total of 120 man months (para. 2.20 (b) and 2.20 (c)); and (c) training
(para. 2.20(a) and 2.20(f)). Normal practice in the municipalities has not
been to produce final designs as required for Bank financed civil works, but
rather to leave these designs to the selected contractor. This process often
results in inferior results and large and unpredictable cost increases. To
reduce the probability of such occurrences under this Project, and to start to
change the way that municipalities go about implementing their transport
infrastructure works, this sub-component will finance the provision of final
designs according to Bank principles. Based on the experience of the first
three sub-projects, this will be a lengthy and costly process, although it is
expected to result in overall cost savings. An allowance of 6.3Z of the
estimated cost of civil works has been made for final design and its
supervision.
2.22     All additional environmental studies and training to implement
environmental regulations and controls will also be included in this sub-part
of the Project, as will additional technical assistance to the municipality in
a form analogous to that provided to SEDESOL under Part Al. The sub-component
also aims at improving the level of competence of the local staff involved in
transport planning and maintenance, by financing special training courses in
addition to those included in Part A3 of the project and additional technical
assistance and studies to be recommended in the ITPs and approved by the Bank.
This sub-component will also include as necessary, the training of police in



- 23 -
the implementation of traffic regulations or in traffic management to reduce
road accidents. The total amount allocated for technical assistance and
training (US$17.4 million) reflects the extent of the need and current lack of
qualified and experienced personnel, particularly in the areas of urban
traffic engineering and public transport administration.
2.23     Part 3 B (c) - Equipment (US$9.3 million):  This sub-component will
provide: (a) technical equipment for the management and control of urban
transport. Many cities lack adequate traffic signals systems, and very few of
them have computerized, linked systems which are needed to provide maximum
capacity from existing infrastructure. The installation of such systems is
often a more efficient and lower cost alternative to undertaking civil works
to provide additional traffic capacity; (b) the upgrading of existing traffic
signals systems and the installation of new systems where they were
demonstrated to contribute to an efficient solution to urban traffic
congestion; (c) where necessary, the purchase of equipment such as parking
meters, wheel clamps, and tow trucks for removing illegally parked vehicles,
in support of strategies and plans under Part B3(a) of the project (para. 2.20
(b)); and (d) equipment for monitoring traffic related air quality indices and
for controlling vehicle emissions.
D.   ITPe and the Operating Manual of the PVT
2.24     During project preparation, ITPs were prepared in three cities--
Ciudad Juarez, Leon and Toluca--under the guidance and supervision of BANOBRAS
and utilizing agreed terms of reference. Based on the experience gained in
the preparation of these studies, revised terms of reference have now been
prepared by SEDESOL, the agency now responsible for the execution of the ITPs.
Satisfactory final appraisals of these three ITPs have been received by the
Bank, as has a model sub-project agreement to be used for these and other
participating cities.
2.25     There are 46 cities (Annex 1, Table 1) which are potential
participants in the PVT. The number of cities to be financed by project funds
will depend on the investment needs of the first participating cities and the
calls which they will make on these funds. However, to avoid the risk that
the funds would be distributed between too many cities for efficient
supervision, agreement was reached at negotiations that no more than twelve
cities will be allowed to participate in Part B3, although no restrictions
were placed on the number of cities to participate in Parts BI and B2 (para.
3.1 (e)). Present indications are that the actual number of Part B3
participants may be only ten, based on the size of the investment proposals of
the first three participating cities. These three cities have completed their
ITPs and are ready to apply for implementation sub-loans. Draft sub-loan
agreements are being prepared for the municipalities of Ciudad Juarez and Leon
and for the State of Mexico (SOM) in the case of Toluca. The SOM is
responsible for the Plan for Toluca because the metropolitan area of the city
is governed by five different municipalities. The Toluca ITP recommendations
for the integration of the planning processes in the metropolitan area will be
implemented as part of the project.



- 24 -
2.26     The Operating Manual of the PVT will guide the operations of all
agencies involved in the Program, of which the Project will be an integral
part. The Manual covers such matters as agency responsibilities for the
project cycle, guidelines on financing arrangements and municipality and
component eligibility criteria. The Bank has received a satisfactory final
version of the Operating Manual. Any deviation from the policies and
practices established in the Manual, without prior Bank agreement, will be an
event of default. All municipalities and states participating in the Project
will be required to comply with the guidance of the Manual. Final designs for
first year sub-project civil works and equipment specifications for two
participating cities have been completed satisfactorily to the Bank and final
designs conform to recognized Mexican and international standards for urban
roads. The bidding documents conform to the standard documents agreed between
the Bank and the Mexican Government.
2.27     The Project will be an integral part of the PVT (para. 1.14).
Funding of particular sub-projects which satisfy the criteria of the program
(Annex 1), will be through a mixture of resources, as shown in Annex 8.
Overall Bank financing of any sub-project will not exceed 50% of its total
cost. Commitment to the elimination of federal funding under all alternative
arrangements, and to adequate federal budget finance for counterpart
expenditure (para. 2.39) is included in the PVT, as is the financing mix
described above. This financing scheme will be complementary to the method of
distributing regional development budgets through the Convenios Unicos de
Desarrollo (CUD). These are agreements by which State governments contribute
a fixed proportion of the investment costs of federal projects (mostly
infrastructure maintenance) and are responsible for their execution. The CUD
system will no longer apply to the maintenance and development of transport
infrastructure and will be replaced by the mechanism of the PVT, which is
similar but gives a more important role to the municipalities. All these
arrangements were confirmed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (c)).
2.28     The ITPs will demonstrate that the modified economic rate of return
(MERR)2' of the sub-project as a whole was greater than 12% and that all sub-
project components had MERRs of at least 12%, and the economic evaluation will
have to show that each proposed component is an efficient solution to the
identified problem (Annex 1). BANOBRAS, under the First Urban Transport
Project, has developed standardized urban vehicle operating costs and an
economic evaluation manual (to be revised under the technical assistance to
SEDESOL (para. 2.11 (c)), both of which will be used in the studies for
preparation of the ITPs and be periodically revised as necessary during the
execution of the Project.
2.29     The Operating Manual includes provision for three types of sub-loan,
one pertaining to each of the three components of Part B of the Project. The
first sub-loan will be made available for financing the preparation of an ITP
(Part Bi) and the second sub-loan for urgent infrastructure works (Part B2),
with the cities needing to have met only the city size and/or importance
eligibility criterion and agreed to implement the other conditions (para.
2/ MERR is the Modified Econornic Rate of Retum. Its use is described in Annex 4, para. S.



- 25 -
2.31). The types of work and equipment which will be eligible for
consideration as immediate actions are defined in Annex 1, were confirmed
during negotiations (para. 3.1 (c)). The third and final sub-loan will be
available for the implementation of the ITP (Part B3). During appraisal, the
procedures and agency responsibilities in the preparation of the three
components of municipal sub-projects were agreed (paras. 2.45 et seq. and
Annex 6), and are included in the final version of the Operating Manual. The
operational procedures and responsibilities for the PVT are identical to those
of the Project and were confirmed during negotiations, together with the
requirement that all participating municipalities and states abide by the
norms of the Operating Manual (para. 3.1 (d)).
2.30     It was agreed at appraisal and confirmed at negotiations that the
final decision as to which municipalities and sub-projects should receive Bank
financing will lie with the Bank (para. 3.1 (e)). This will also apply to
each individual component of Part B of the Project. A condition of on-lending
and eligibility of any municipality or metropolitan area for a sub-loan under
Parts B1 and B2 of the Project will be that it has a population of at least
400,000 and less than 1,200,000, as shown in the national population census of
1990, or that it is a regional center or otherwise of special significance to
Mexico's economic development.
2.31     Agreement to the preparation and implementation of the ITPs will
require a significant long-term political commitment from the relevant state
and municipal authorities. Such commitment will be demonstrated in two
stages. In the sub-loan agreement for Parts B1 or B2, responsible authorities
will agree to implement all the requirements listed below, and all these
obligations will be complied with before a sub-loan agreement under Part B3
could be made. All sub-loan agreements will include monitoring indicators.
The municipality or state will report periodically to SEDESOL and BANOBRAS on
the progress in meeting these indicators. The specific monitoring indicators
for each sub-loan will be included in the sub-loan agreements. Failure to
achieve them will require the implementation of a remedial plan to be agreed
with the Bank, to avoid a condition of default under the sub-loan. The
requirements and eligibility criteria for municipalities and sub-project
components were confirmed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (f)):
(a)     The completion of the ITP, to ensure that the sub-projects
financed under the loan, respond to a broad urban transport
strategy. Terms of Reference for studies to prepare the
ITPs, which will include reviews of public transport
regulations and tariffs and of the financial viability of
private bus operators, will be prepared specifically for each
municipality, based on the generic terms of reference already
prepared by SEDESOL. The municipalities will also be
required to make a commitment to use their transport planning
and traffic engineering units to update and review programs
and policies recommended in the ITPs. Subsequent failure to
implement fully the agreed policy recommendations of the ITP
will be an event of default under the sub-loan;



- 26 -
(b)     The creation or strengthening, as warranted, of transport
planning, traffic engineering unit and traffic management
units. In those cases where these activities are the
responsibility of the state, the requirement will be that the
functions be transferred to the municipalities before
completion of the sub-project; alternatively, where there are
valid reasons for not following this course, a state
delegation will be established in the municipality (Annex 1).
Establishment of a local delegation could facilitate the
transfer of functions to the municipality at a later date;
(c)     Agreement by the participating municipalities and states to
make adequate budget provision for their share of sub-project
funding and not to initiate any urban transport investment
with a total cost over US$3.0 million outside of the agreed
program, while the sub-project is being implemented, without
the prior agreement of SEDESOL and the Bank. Remedies of the
Bank may apply if such budget provisions are not made or if
such transport investments are made without prior agreement.
However at the Bank's discretion these remedies may be
limited to the amount of Bank financing corresponding to the
particular sub-project;
(d)     A formal commitment to the participation of the municipality
in the project to be agreed with the State. Regulation of
public transport operations is frequently divided between
agencies at different levels of government (para. 1.18). The
policy of the federal government is to decentralize
responsibility for urban transport affairs to the lowest
appropriate tier of government. This condition will include
a requirement that the municipalities have in place or agree
to strengthen or create, as appropriate, a competent public
transport regulatory agency;
(e)     A commitment and plan of action from the municipalities to
develop a road and signals maintenance capability.
Compliance with the plan will be monitored during project
implementation and will be a condition of access to further
lending (Annex 1). The municipalities will be required to
make a sufficient budget allocation for maintenance
activities during implementation of the project, based on a
calculation of minimum needs as identified in the ITP;
(f)     The completion of economic and environmental assessments of
sub-project components, as part of the ITPs, to ensure that:
(a) all projects have an HERR of at least 12S and that no
alternative proposal has a higher HERR; and (b) any
significant negative environmental impacts are identified and
necessary mitigating measures proposed in a form acceptable
to SEDESOL and the Bank. SEDESOL has already prepared a
methodology acceptable to the Bank for assessing current
environmental conditions which are influenced by urban roads



- 27 -
and traffic, and for reviewing and implementing remedial
actions for those environmental factors which would be
adversely influenced by proposed actions. Where the sub-
project may affect in a negative manner a specific community,
the city should agree to provide to the affected community
the environmental assessment and the proposed mitigatory
and/or compensation measures with reasonable anticipation and
to discuss them with the affected community. Bank approval
of such sub-projects will be contingent inter alia upon full
compliance with these requirements;
(g)     The completion of final engineering and bid documentation for
components comprising a minimum of 20Z of the sub-project, to
reduce the risk of slow implementation of sub-projects. The
supervision of the preparation of these final designs will be
included in the terms of reference of the ITPs (Part Bl),
although their execution will be contracted separately under
Part B3 (b);
(h)     All reasonable alternatives to any sub-project component
which involved the displacement of population should have
been reviewed and found to be inferior to that proposed, and
that the affected community should have been given an
adequate opportunity to comment on the proposal. In
addition, the evaluation of all sub-project components will
include an assessment of their environmental impact and the
proposed components will include mitigatory and/or
compensatory actions; and
(i)     That the municipality or state demonstrate to the
satisfaction of SEDESOL that they have the administrative
capacity and ability to undertake the sub-project, preferably
by the creation of a fully staffed sub-project management
unit, and to meet all the on-going conditions of
participation, and demonstrate that a sub-loan agreement with
BANOBRAS has been executed in line with the standard
requirements of the Bank for such agreements (para. 2.51).
E.   Costs
2.32     The total level of transport investment required in the cities which
could qualify for participation in the Program can not yet be quantified
precisely. Few cities have yet undertaken systematic evaluations of their
transport needs and past records of transport investments are not well
documented. Sub-project preparation for the first three cities to prepare
ITPs (Ciudad Juarez, Leon and Toluca) indicates that short term (about 3
years) investments of the order of US$40 million to US$50 million per city
(including taxes and land costs) are required. If all of the 46
municipalities were to participate in the Program at this level of investment,
the total cost could exceed US$2 billion. SHCP has determined that the
Program should be initiated with a total investment budget of about of US$470



- 28 -
million, which will be sufficient for the participation of some ten
municipalities at the average level of investment. This estimate, based on
prices prevailing in April 1992, provides the basis of the financial
projections used in this report.
2.33     As the proposed level of funding will not meet the transport needs of
all candidate cities for participation in the Program, the Federal Government
needs to determine the financing arrangements for the remainder of the cities.
To assist in this process, during the course of the first year of the Project,
SEDESOL, assisted by consultants, will furnish proposals to: (a) develop a
data base on the investments conducted and planned in the urban areas by all
levels of government and a plan of action to ensure that the proposals from
all cities are submitted to an adequate evaluation; and (b) in collaboration
with SHCP, prepare a financing plan for the rest of the medium size cities,
based on a realistic assessment of the needs and financial ability (para. 2.11
(b)). The above tasks have been incorporated in the SEDESOL work program and
will be evaluated during the Mid-Term Review of the Project (para. 2.58).
During the annual reviews of the Project (para. 2.57), account will be taken
of the number of currently participating municipalities and the number then
expected to participate in the coming two years. If the Program is successful
and there is a reasonable expectation that the demand for Program funds will
significantly exceed available funds, the Bank may consider a follow up
operation.
2.34     Based on the proposed financing scheme (para. 2.27) and on the cost
estimates for the three cities for which appraisals have been completed, the
total Project cost will be about US$471 million equivalent, including duties
and taxes of about US$45 million. The foreign exchange cost will be US$139
million, about 33Z of the total project cost (Table 1).



- 29 -
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMHARY
(In million of US Dollars)
Local      Foreign    Total
-----------US$ million------
PART A NATIONAL
Al  SEDESOL Strengthening                         1.0        2.5         3.5
A2  BANOBRAS Strengthening                        0.3        0.1         0.4
A3  National Training Program                     0.9        0.9         1.8
A4  Integral Studies                              0.4        0.2         0.6
SUB TOTAL PART A                                 2.6         3.7         6.3
PART B LOCAL
BI    Integral Transport Plans                   2.1          1.1        3.2
B2    Immediate Civil Works                     25.7        12.4        38.1
B3(a) Implementation of ITPs (Civil works)   145.8          79.0       224.8
B3(b) Implementation of ITPs (Services)          17.6        5.8        23.4
B3(c) Implementation of ITPs (Equipment)         2.5         5.0         7.5
Land and property acquisition             25.2         0.0        25.2
SUB TOTAL PART B                               218.9       103.3       322.2
TOTAL BASE COST                                221.5       107.0       328.5
Physical contingencies                          37.8        18.2        56.0
Price contingencies                             28.1        13.7        41.8
TOTAL (excluding taxes)                        287.4       138.9       426.3
Taxes                                           44.8         0.0        44.8
Total (including taxes)                        332.2       138.9       471.1
2.35     About US$7.8 million (2% of the total cost) or US$6.3 million
excluding contingencies and taxes, will be for the Part A - national
component. About 220 man months of consulting services for technical
assistance for SEDESOL (detailed in Annex 2) and BANOBRAS (detailed in Annex
3) are included, before taking account of the studies to prepare the ITPs, as
are a further 15 months under the proposed National Training Program (detailed
in Annex 4).
2.36     Part B will account for US$463.3 million (98Z of the total cost) or
US$322.2 million excluding taxes and contingencies. This estimate, based on
an extrapolation of the sub-project component costs of three cities which have
already completed their ITPs is only indicative, as additional cities may have



- 30 -
a different mixture of components in their sub-projects. In addition to the
civil works, 100 man months have been included for each of the cities
undertaking the preparation the ITPs (para. 2.14) and up to 120 months of
technical assistance and consultant services have been included for
implementing institutional strengthening and regulatory reform (para. 2.21).
For the preparation of the ITPs, 25% of the finance will be provided under
Part A4 of the Project. Physical contingencies were extrapolated from the
already completed sub-projects and the experience of the large cost increases
between appraisal and final execution of works in the First Urban Transport
Project (Loan 2824-ME). Price contingencies were calculated with anticipated
international inflation rates of 3.7Z per year for the seven years project
implementation period. It is assumed that the peso exchange rate will be
adjusted as may be necessary to reflect any difference between domestic and
international inflation levels.
F. Financing
2.37     The Bank loan of US$200 million will finance 42.5S of the total
project cost, including land acquisition, taxes and duties. Of the net
project cost, 29.5% is estimated as foreign exchange; funding of a modest
proportion of local costs (18% of the total, including land and taxes) is
justified in view of the beneficial institutional, social and environmental
impacts of the project. The project does not include any provision for
recurrent cost financing other than for salaries of temporary SEDESOL and
BANOBRAS staff under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project for the first two years
of Project implementation only.
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
(In millions of US Dollars)
Source of Funds           Local       Foreign       TOTAL       Z of
Total
IBRD                         61.1        138.9      200.0        42.5%
Federal Government          174.6          0.0       174.6       37.1S
State and Local              96.5          0.0       96.5        20.5%
Government
TOTAL                       332.2        138.9      471.1       100.0S
% of Total                   70.5%        29.5%     100.0%
2.38     The proposed loan will finance 100% of the expenditures related to
the national part of the Program (Part A), with the exception of taxes and
duties, which will be financed by the federal government, and almost 42Z of
the expenditures under Part B. Annex 8 shows the full details of the



- 31 -
financing scheme and an example of the financing of the Part B expenditures
for a typical municipality.
2.39     The proceeds of the Bank loan will be transferred by BANOBRAS to the
Guarantor in accordance with the norms applicable in Mexico to Bank loans, and
subsequently the Guarantor will lend a portion of the proceeds back to
BANOBRAS in pesos for on-lending by BANOBRAS to the states and cities. To
ensure the availability of sufficient federal counterpart funds to meet the
financial obligations for the coming year, it was agreed at appraisal and
confirmed at negotiations that the Guarantor will submit to the Bank for its
review and comment, at least sixty days before the end of each fiscal year,
the proposed budget allocations by the Federal Government to the PVT for the
succeeding fiscal year (para. 3.1 (g)). These proposals will be discussed
during the annual implementation review (para. 2.57) and a budget submission,
which will be adequate to meet the federal government counterpart funding
obligations under both the national and local components of the project, will
be agreed with the Bank. The following annual review will verify that the
funding requirements had been met. Any failure by the federal government to
provide adequately for the Project will constitute an action of default. The
Guarantor has provided to the Bank the 1993 Federal budget proposal indicating
the provision of adequate funds to cover the counterpart obligations for 1993.
As a condition of effectiveness, the Guarantor and BANOBRAS shall provide to
the Bank an executed sub-loan agreement under Part B3(a) of the Project,
satisfactory to the Bank, defining the Guarantor/BANOBRAS transfer and on-
lending procedures (para. 3.2 (c)).
G.   On-lending
2.40     BANOBRAS will on-lend the proceeds of the proposed loan to the
municipalities and states, in Mexican pesos, at a variable interest rate, no
lower than the marginal cost of funds to the Guarantor (CETES) plus 22, with
repayment up to 15 years, including grace periods of up to three years. This
is in line with the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) between Mexico and
the Bank. The Guarantor will bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risk
on the Bank loan, which should be manageable since the CETES rate is market-
determined and reflects expectations about inflation and devaluation. A sub-
project for a particular city will include up to three separate sub-loans, one
each to finance the ITP, the immediate actions and the implementation of the
ITP. In all cases the states will be party to the sub-loan agreements, acting
as guarantors for the municipalities. To help ensure that the municipalities
and states participating in the program make sufficient budget allocations to
meet the counterpart funding requirements and to meet their on-lending
requirements including provision of adequate road maintenance funding, it was
agreed at appraisal and confirmed at negotiations, that in conjunction with
each sub-borrower, BANOBRAS will furnish to the Bank for its review and
comment, the proposed Annual Transport Investment Plan (based on the
investment plan of the ITP) of each sub-borrower at least sixty days before
the beginning of each fiscal year (para. 3.1 (h)). The sub-loan agreement
will give the Bank the right to suspend or terminate a sub-loan if the
municipality or state failed to make sufficient budget provision for the
investment plan in the approved ITP (para. 2.31 (c)).



- 32 -
H.   Implementation Schedule
2.41     The Project is expected to be implemented and the loan disbursed over
a seven-year period, in accordance with experience under urban projects in the
region. The project will be completed by December 31, 1999 and the closing
date will be June 30, 2000. The final date for submission of city sub-
projects by BANOBRAS to the Bank will be December 31, 1996.
2.42     The three cities that have completed their ITPs have indicated their
willingness to comply with the other conditions of participation. The
borrowing agency for the first two of these cities will be the municipality,
while in the case of Toluca it will be the State Government (of Mexico) as the
city of Toluca is administered by five separate municipalities. The sub-
projects for these three cities will be ready for implementation as soon as
the Bank is satisfied that the on-lending conditions (para. 2.31) have been
met.
2.43     There are at least five other cities that are ready to start
preparing their ITPs and to comply with the other conditions for participation
in the Program. The studies to prepare the ITPs in these cities will start as
soon as the administrative procedures can be completed, expected to be within
two months of Board approval of the Project. These ITPs are expected to be
completed by the end of 1993 and compliance with the on-lending conditions
(para. 2.31) will be confirmed at the same time. Meanwhile, implementation of
the urgent actions will start early in 1993. Implementation of the proposed
investment and actions of the ITP will start after acceptance by the Bank of
the ITP recommendations and after confirmation that all the on-lending
conditions had been met (Annex 6).
2.44     With three cities now ready to implement their ITP action and
investment plans, and a further five cities ready to start preparation of
their ITPs, there is a reasonable probability of accelerating the planned
disbursement schedule, which is based on an expectation of three ITPs being
completed towards the end of 1993 and a further three before the end of 1994.
With the investment plans included in the ITPs being for three year periods,
the disbursement periods for loans under Parts B2 and B3 of any sub-project
are not expected to be more than five years, with expenditure peaking in the
third and fourth year.
I.   Institutional Responsibilities
2.45     BANOBRAS will be the borrower for the Project.  For Part A, BANOBRAS
and SEDESOL will be the implementing agencies, while for Part B SEDESOL will
be the implementing agency, although BANOBRAS will retain responsibility for
the financial aspects of procurement and responsibility for processing of sub-
loan agreements. A project coordinating group has already been formed and
held its first meetings. The purpose of the group is to coordinate the
actions of the two implementing agencies and to resolve any inter
institutional problems before they have a chance to prejudice the progress of
the Project. In most cases the sub-loans will be made to the appropriate



- 33 -
municipality, with the financial support and guarantee of the state of which
it forms part. In those cases where the state still retains responsibility
for most urban transport matters, the sub-loan will be made to the state, but
with the municipality being a party to the agreement. Where a city region for
which a sub-project is being prepared includes more than one municipality or
municipalities in more than one state, all of the relevant states will be
severally and jointly responsible as sub-borrowers for the execution of the
sub-project. In these cases it may be necessary to constitute a sub-project
coordinating group, comprising members of all interested government agencies
to ensure timely resolution of potential difficulties in management of the
sub-project.
2.46     BANOBRAS.  Established in 1933, BANOBRAS is the principal source of
funding for the Government's public works and housing sector projects. The
institution provides credit to state and municipal Governments to finance
public works (mainly water and sewage systems), low income housing and public
transportation. In addition, as a second-tier bank, BANOBRAS provides credit
to commercial banks to finance Government established programs such as for the
purchase of taxis and minibuses; it also provides guarantees to private
contractors engaged in public sector works. BANOBRAS recently established a
separate unit to manage its second-tier operations. BANOBRAS is the Borrower
for 10 Bank loans currently in execution. In August 1989, BANOBRAS closed its
retail deposit-taking operations and converted its branches throughout Mexico
into regional offices in each of the 31 Mexican states.
2.47     Loans to Mexican public sector entities are made by BANOBRAS both in
its capacity as financial agent of the Government and from its own funds. As
of December 31, 1991, 77.2% of BANOBRAS' loans were made as financial agent of
the Government. In these operations BANOBRAS passes the funds to the
different Government entities and charges a commission. BANOBRAS carries
little credit risk on its portfolio because 97.3% of its loans are made to the
public sector and have the guarantee of the Federal Government. BANOBRAS has
never suffered losses on loans to the public sector and does not establish
reserves for bad debts on these type of loans. BANOBRAS experienced some
losses in loans to the private sector; however, these loans are now being
channelled through the commercial banking system as second-tier operations
where the commercial banks assume the credit risk. These loans are made at
variable interest rates based on the CETES rate and are adjusted monthly. On
the liabilities side, its financial agent operations are protected against
foreign currency exchange risk as the Government assumes the risk. In the
case of direct foreign currency borrowing by BANOBRAS, these funds are either
on-lent in foreign currency or on-lent in local currency, but with principal
and interest payments adjusted for exchange rate fluctuations.
2.48     The procedures for preparation and execution of sub-projects are
described in detail in Annex 6. To assist in strengthening its operations and
carrying out its obligations, SEDESOL has contracted additional staff and has
in place consultants to provide the first 40 months of technical assistance
for its strengthening program. SEDESOL will be the implementing agency
responsible for:



- 34 -
(a)     Part Al - developing and implementing its own institutional
strengthening program;
(b)     Part A3 - the national training program;
(c)     Parts A4 and BI - studies to prepare the ITPs, including the
preparation and approval of a Diagnostic Report, an Immediate
Actions Plan, and Investment and Action Plans, and the
establishment and promotion of the national urban transport
policy including monitoring sector performance and needs,
both in coordination with other Federal agencies,
particularly BANOBRAS;
(d)   Part B2 - implementation of the Immediate Actions Plan; and
(e)   Part B3 - reviewing the compliance with on-lending conditions,
including the operational, economic and environmental
evaluation of all proposed actions and investments, before
starting to negotiate the third sub-loan agreements.
Implementation of the ITPs, including the investment and
institutional action plans and all technical assistance and
training.
2.49     BANOBRAS has also contracted temporary staff and consultants to help
in carrying out its following obligations under the project:
(a)      Part A2 - implementation of its own strengthening program;
(b)      Part B3 - assessment of the creditworthiness and debt
service capacity of municipalities and states wishing to
participate in this part of the project;
.c)      Parts B1, B2 and B3 - administration of sub-loans, including
the preparation of all sub-loan agreements, which will be
subject to Bank approval, leading the sub-loan negotiations
with municipalities and states participating in Part B of
the Project, and monitoring compliance with sub-loan
conditions. A model sub-project on-lending agreement for
implementing the civil works proposals of an ITP has been
provided to the Bank;
(d)      Parts B2 and B3 - delivery of procurement seminars and
supervision of procurement under all sub-loans; and
(a)      Coordination and transmission to the Bank of quarterly and
other reports and preparation of information for the Annual
and Mid Term Reviews of the project.
2.50     The preparation and implementation of each sub-project will be
divided into two stages: Stage I, preparation, and Stage II, implementation.
Stage I will be divided into two phases, the preparation of the diagnostic
part of the ITP and an immediate action investment plan. Stage II will



- 35 -
comprise the preparation of the final ITP, which will include an institutional
and regulatory Action Plan, a short to medium range Investment plan, for which
the final designs of all approved projects will be included, and the
implementation of the immediate actions. The major tasks which will be
carried out in each of the Phase., together with an indication of the agency
responsibilities, are described in Annex 6.
J.   Procurement
2.51     BANOBRAS will be responsible for procurement for its institutional
component, SEDESOL for its institutional component and for the national
training program, and the municipalities for their respective sub-projects.
BANOBRAS will install a project management system to help in the control and
supervision of the procurement processes in the municipalities. Each
participating municipality will send their procurement staff to BANOBRAS for
training. Both agencies have recruited, or will have recruited as a condition
of effectiveness (para. 3.2 (a)), specialized staff to manage the procurement
process. Standard bidding documents, which are currently being revised and
will be agreed with the Mexican authorities, will be used during project
execution. All procurement documents will be subject to prior review by
BANOBRAS. All International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and the first Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) contract per municipality, both for acquisition of
goods and for civil works, will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Other
procurement documentation will be subject to selective ex-post review.
BANOBRAS will retain documentation for these contracts for periodic
supervision by Bank staff.
2.52     To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or more for goods and
US$5.0 million or more for works, and will be procured on the basis of ICB in
accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credit, May 1985. LCB will be used to award contracts estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than US$250,000 per bid package for goods and
US$5.0 million per bid package for works. In the case of procurement of goods
through ICB, Mexican firms will be provided a preference margin equal to 15%
or the prevailing duty, whichever is lower. The maximum total value of
contracts awarded under LCB for any sub-project will be 60% of the total
amount for these items in the sub-project. For contracts with an estimated
cost below US$250,000 for goods and works, shopping based on price quotations
from a least three bidders will be used. Total procurement under shopping
will not exceed US$400,000 for goods and US$3.0 million for works. The
selection and appointment of consultants for studies, works supervision, and
technical assistance will follow the August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executina
Atency   Procurement arrangements were agreed at appraisal and confirmed
during negotiations (para. 3.1 (i)).
2.53     The estimated project cost breakdown by procurement method (Table 3)
is presented below and is based on the three sub-projects already appraised.
These figures are tentative as the components of each sub-project will depend



- 36 -
on the nature of the recommendations of the ITP and on the components
submitted for project financing:
Table 3: PROCUREMENT METHOD
(In millions of US Dollars)
Project                                 ICB      LCB      Other       Total
Component
Parts Al and    Institutional            -        -        4.6         4.6
A2               Strengthening           -        -       (4. l)-l    (4.1)
Part A3          National Training       -        -        2.2         2.2
Program                -         -      (2.0)1'      (2.0)
Parts A4 and    Studies for ITPs         -        -        4.8         4.8
Bl                                       -        -       (4.4)1/     (4.4)
Part B2          Civil Works            21.2     24.9      1.0        47.1
(Immediate)           (6.6)   (11.1)   (0.5)1'   (18.2)
Part B3.a        Civil Works           153.1    185.2      2.0       340.3
(Other)              (57.4)   (67.5)   (0.9)1'  (130.4)
Part B3.b        Other Studies,          -        -       37.2        37.2
tech. assist &         -         -     (33.5)1/    (33.5)
training
Parts Al, A2    Equipment                6.9      2.4      0.4         9.7
and B3.c                                (5.2)    (1.8)   (0.4)1/      (7.4)
Land                    -        -      25.2        25.2
-       -       (0.0)'1     (0.0)
Total:               181.2    212.5    77.4        471.1
(73.8)   (80.4)  (45.8)      (200.0)
1101 Vigures in pereutbesis are anounts to be financed by the proposed lank Loan.
11  Consultin  services to be provided in accordance with Bank guidelines.
TI   *hopPI  procedur  aacceptable to the Bank.
K.   Disbursements
2.54     Proceeds of the proposed Bank loan will finance:  (a) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for goods; (b) 100% of the
cost of consultants, and (c) 42% of the cost of civil works. The remaining
cost of civil works will be financed by a mixture of federal and municipal
funds, as shown in Annex 8. To expedite project execution, a Special Account



- 37 -
will be opened in the Central Bank, with an initial deposit of US$12 million
equivalent, representing the estimated loan disbursements in the average four
month peak period of disbursements in 1994. All contracts up to US$5,000,000
equivalent for works and US$250,000 equivalent for goods and services will be
made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures (SOEs) prepared by
BANOBRAS. Supporting documentation for the SOEs will be retained by BANOBRAS
and made available for examination by Bank staff during supervision missions.
Retroactive financing of up to US$4.0 million equivalent (2% of loan funds),
will be provided for eligible expenditures incurred after June 30, 1992. It
will be used to finance the first stage of implementation of the ITPs already
completed and the initial costs of the first studies in the next round of
ITPs. The disbursement arrangements, including those for retroactive
financing, were agreed at appraisal and confirmed during negotiations (para.
3.1 (i)).
Table 4: DISBURSEHENT BY CATEGORY
(In US Dollars)
Amount of the          2 of
Loan Allocated      Expenditures
To be financed
1.  Equipment, and materials             200,000       100% of foreign
for National Component                             expenditures and 85Z
of local expenditures
2.  Services (consultants,             6,900,000        100%
temporary staff salaries
and Training courses) for
National Component
3.  Services (consultants) for        19,400,000       100% 21
local component, including
final design and supervision
4.  Civil works for Immediate         17,500,000       42%
Actions
5.  Civil works for the              128,800,000       42%
implementation of ITPs
6.  Equipment and materials             7,200,000       100% of foreign
for the Local component                            expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
6.  Unallocated                       20,000,000
Total:                           200.000.000
1/   Including consultant services, technical assistance, provalson of training courses, and the
25% grant element for the Integral Transport Plans.
2/   Including local component of cost of Integral Transport Plans.



- 38 -
L.   Reporting and Project Supervision
2.55     Reporting.  It was agreed during Appraisal, and confirmed at
negotiations, that BANOBRAS, with the assistance of SEDESOL and the city
agencies, will prepare quarterly progress reports for the quarters ending on
March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 (par-. 3.1 (j)). The reports
will be furnished to the Bank within sixty days of the end of the quarter.
The progress reports will cover institutional development and project
execution achievements and compare them with appraisal projections and goals
and present a critical assessment of problems and issues arising during
relevant period of project execution. The reports will also evaluate
compliance with sub-loan conditionality by each city, and actions taken to
enforce compliance. In cases of unsatisfactory progress, the reports will
also detail proposals for adjustments and remedial actions.
2.56     Project Supervision.  The responsibilities for supervising project
implementation are presented in Annex 6. It is expected that at least three
supervision missions per year (four in the first year), staffed by an urban
transport engineer/planner and a transport economist will be required to
supervise the Project during the first three year. of execution. In addition,
financial analysts and specialists in traffic engineering, training,
environment, and mass transit systems should accompany the supervision
missions as required. Supervision requirements are expected to be intensive,
particularly in the initial years, as Bank missions should plan to visit every
participating city at least once a year. There are now at least five
municipalities or states waiting to participate in the Project, in addition to
the three ready to start on the implementation of their ITP. For each of the
first two years, the supervision requirements are estimated at about 40 and 35
headquarters staff weeks respectively. Supervision requirements will fall to
25-30 staff weeks per year thereafter. Arrangements will also be made for an
additional 20-25 weeks per year of local supervision of works in the
participating cities.
2.57     Asnual and Hid Term Reviews.  In September of each year the Bank and
the Government will conduct a formal joint review of the progress made in
reaching the objectives, in the implementation of the project and in achieving
the monitoring indicators of the sub-projects. The agenda for the annual
review will include the following items: (a) a review of the number of cities
currently participating in the project and expected to enter the project in
the coming year, and of the needs for sub-project financing; (b) a review of
the progress on implementing the technical assistance to SEDESOL and BANOBRAS,
together with the specification of remedial measures to remedy any delays in
implementation; (c) an agreement on the federal budget submission that will
provide adequate federal financing for the project in the coming year (para.
2.39); (d) an assessment of progress of the national training program and its
revision to meet any new needs which may have arisen during the previous year;
(e) a review of the financial performance of both the national and local
components of the project in the previous year and of the requirements for the
coming year and of the compliance of federal, state and municipal agencies
with sub-loan covenants. Information for the financial reviews will be
provided by the sub-project monitoring program to be introduced by BANOBRAS;



- 39 -
(f) a review of the proposed urban transport investment plan for each
participating municipality for the coming year, particularly in respect of the
availability of finance for each of the projects; (g) an assessment of
adequacy of the municipal and state budget allocations for urban transport in
the participating cities for the following year, to meet the assessed needs
for road and equipment maintenance. The assessment will include an analysis
of the recovery of investment costs from the immediate beneficiaries and of
the implementation of bus and taxi tariff scales to enable operators to earn
sufficient revenues to implement adequate fleet replacement policies; (h)
progress on the implementation of institutional changes in the participating
cities, particularly in respect to the allocation of responsibilities between
state and municipal agencies for the design and implementation of traffic and
transport regulations and taking account of performance against agreed timed
objectives; (i) an evaluation of progress in improving air quality indices and
vehicle emission controls in participating cities and of the proposed measures
to further improve these indices in the coming year, and (j) a review of
progress on the preparation of new ITPs and of the proposed participation of
further cities in the program. The discussion and analysis of these issues
will lead to the formulation of adjustments to the project and, if necessary,
the implementation of remedial actions satisfactory to the Bank to correct any
deficiencies or delays. Satisfactory in this case implies that the proposed
actions would, in the opinion of the Bank, have a high probability of
resolving significant problems.
2.58         The third annual review will constitute a Mid Term Review, and
provide an opportunity for a more comprehensive review of the achievements of
the project to date, and of the prospects for its successful completion. For
this Mid Term Review the agenda will include, in addition to the agenda items
for the annual reviews: (a) a review of compliance with the on-lending
conditions; (b) an evaluation of the funding proposals for the remainder of
the PVT; (c) assessment of a specific report to be prepared by SEDESOL on the
status of transport related environmental issues in the medium-size cities
(the terms of reference for the study to produce this report to be agreed at
the previous annual review); and (d) proposals for restructuring or
reorientation of the project in light of the reviews and assessments of the
issues discussed during the Review. The timing and agendas of the annual and
Mid Term reviews were confirmed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (k)).
M.   Auditing
2.59     Auditing.  BANOBRAS will have its financial statements, Special
Account and SOEs audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank
and according to generally accepted auditing standards. The Bank will review
the external auditors' terms of reference. BANOBRAS, in turn, will require
each city and state implementing agency to engage external auditors
satisfactory to BANOBRAS to audit their sub-project accounts according to
generally accepted auditing standards. The accounts for each sub-project
will be maintained separately. BANOBRAS will review the audits of the sub-
project accounts and report to the Bank on the status and the remedial actions
taken. The reports of the sub-projects will be furnished to BANOBRAS within



- 40 -
five months of the close of the fiscal year. BANOBRAS' audit report and its
report of the sub-project audits will be presented to the Bank annually no
later that June 30. SEDESOL will keep project accounts that will be audited
by Contraloria General de la Federaci6n (the auditor of the federal
government) and their report will be furnished to the Bank not later than June
30 of the following year. The project auditing arrangements were confirmed
during negotiations (para. 3.1 (i)).
N.   Project Benefits
2.60     The main benefits of Part A of the Project will be in the improved
organizational structure of responsibilities for urban transport and
improvements in the technical abilities of the manpower available. In
addition, federal officials will be better equipped for allocating federal
financial resources for urban transport development as a result of the
proposed technical assistance to SEDESOL and BANOBRAS. Part B of the Project
will provide, by way of the ITPs, a coherent framework for the development of
urban transport infrastructure and services and, by way of the sub-project
investment components, improvements to urban transport operations. In
addition, the changes to transport policies brought about through the new
approach to transport planning will result in a more responsive and user
oriented urban transport system.
2.61     The quantifiable benefits used to justify the physical investments
are in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs, but just as important in
terms of their impact will be time-saving benefits through reduced traffic
congestion. This reduction in congestion, together with reduced dust
generated from vehicles operating on earth roads will make a significant
contribution to improving the environment and hence to the quality of urban
life. The poor in particular will benefit from road paving and consequent
improved public transport access to low income areas, one of the specific
investment categories of the project and accounting for almost 18Z of the
proposed investments in the three investment plans approved to date. Sub-
project categories dealing with non motorized road users, pedestrians and
cyclists, will also principally be of benefit to poorer users of the urban
transport system.
2.62     Based on the evaluations of three city sub-projects, the project
categories are expected to have modified economic rates of return (MERR),
weighted by the investment costs, of between 34Z and 72%, with an average of
about 50Z (Table 5). Annex 5 provides a discussion of the methodology used,
including an explanation of why MERR's reduce the otherwise exaggerated rates
of return for sub-projects which have very high ERR's, and more details of the
results for each of the three cities for which sub-projects have so far been
evaluated. The project MERR's exclude the benefits of time savings and
environmental improvements, which are very important but which are difficult
to quantify. The average HERR excludes the costs and benefits of the
institutional strengthening program of SEDESOL and BANOBRAS and of the
national training program. The average rates of return, and sensitivity



- 41 -
analyses reflecting the impact of higher costs and/or lower benefits, for the
four evaluated components in the three sub-projects which have been already
appraised are summarized below.
Table 5 - SENSITIVITY OF HERR TO CHANGES IN COSTS AND BENEFITS
Basic    Costs   Benefits        Costs -25Z
Sub-project component        MERR      +25%      -25Z      Benefits +25%
Traffic management           65%        60%        532           47%
Corridor improvements        34%        30%        27%           19%
Access to low income areas  36%         32%         28%          20%
Road maintenance             72%        65%        53%           37Z
Average                      49%         45%        39%          30%
0.   Environmental Aspects
2.63     The project will have a beneficial impact on the environment, which
is one of the principal objectives of the ITPs. The Project will benefit from
several of the measures proposed in TAQM project, particularly those
components dealing with national standards and issues. Equipment to be
purchased by SEDESOL's emissions laboratory will be available to the
municipalities to undertake their initial analyses of levels of vehicle
emissions. Much of the expertise gained in the operation of the laboratory
and in the commercial vehicle testing stations will become available to
municipalities participating in the project. Changes in the composition of
vehicle fuels and in the comparative pricing of normal and low lead gasoline
to be introduced as a result of the TAQM project will also be of benefit in
other urban areas.
2.64     Traffic management investments will help relieve congestion in major
transport corridors and central areas, resulting in lower emission of
pollutants per vehicle kilometer. Junction improvements and pedestrian
schemes will improve safety. The paving or resurfacing of access roads and
city streets will reduce the volumes of airborne dust. Public transport
system improvements will contribute to promote a more efficient form of urban
development resulting in a further reduction of travel and emissions.
Redesign of urban roads produces opportunities for tree planting, an activity
which will be encouraged in the ITPs. The approved ITP for Ciudad Juarez
includes proposals for the planting and maintenance of more than 2,500 trees.
Similar proposals will be expected in other ITPs.
2.65     Some road works may have localized adverse impacts, mainly related
to excavation for construction materials and disposal of work site wastes.
Measures to mitigate such impacts will be specified in the bidding documents
for works. The problems of excavated material are likely to be less than in



- 42 -
an inter-urban transport project as the road developments in the project will
mostly be to existing roads for which no further earthworks will be required.
2.66     In general, land acquisition should be limited, as the Project's
main thrust will consist of improvements within existing rights of way,
traffic management measures, paving of streets, and road maintenance.
However, in some cities, the proposed sub-project may include construction of
new road links or major intersections, and in such cases, a need for
relocation of existing residents may occur. In the case of relocation the
Bank guidelines will be strictly followed. A special condition for on-lendina
will apply to any sub-project involving displacement of population (para. 2.31
(h)).
2.67     The TORs for preparing the ITPs will require that existing
environmental road conditions be reviewed and that the Plan include specific
measures for alleviating conditions where they fail to meet existing or
proposed standards. In addition, an environmental assessment will be required
of all proposals for new works, indicating any adverse environmental
consequences and proposing measures to eliminate them or at least reduce their
impact to internationally accepted levels. These assessments and proposals
will relate principally to vehicle emissions, vehicle noise, visual intrusion
and community severance.
P.   Project Risks
2.68     The main project risks will arise from the ambitious objectives it
pursues and the weak institutional capacity to deal with sector issues, both
at the Federal and local levels. Although improvements have been made,
implementation of the First Urban Transport Project has been delayed by the
institutional weaknesses within the State of Mexico (SOM) and BANOBRAS. To
address this problem, BANOBRAS has now consolidated its transport groups into
one division but is having difficulty in contracting new professional level
staff. SOM has initiated an agreed Action Plan to improve the institutional
capacity and capability of its Transport Planning Division. SEDESOL, in
preparation for the implementation of this Project, has reorganized its Urban
Project Transport Division and has contracted counterpart staff and technical
assistance to further strengthen the division. Part A2 of the Project
includes additional funds for institutional strengthening for SEDESOL, the use
of which will depend on the assessed needs. The reinforcement of both SEDESOL
and BANOBRAS and the implementation of the National Training Program, should
increase the implementation abilities of both Federal and local agencies. In
addition, technical assistance and consultant services for state or municipal
agencies are provided for in Part B3 (c) of the Project.
2.69     It is not expected that all the objectives will necessarily be fully
achieved within the period of project execution. The objectives are ambitious
relative to the low base from which the project will atart and even their
partial achievement will be of significant benefit to the population of the
medium-size cities. However, it is expected that the Project will lay a sound
basis for the development of the sector by providing institutional



- 43 -
strengthening, training and encouraging a more rigorous analysis of urban
transport.
2.70     The risk of a change in commitment to the Project, resulting in a
lack of counterpart funding, could occur as a result of changes in
administrations after elections at the federal, state and municipal levels.
The risk of delay due to changes in administration will be mitigated by: (a)
application of the up-front sub-project eligibility criteria which will apply
to all federal resources for urban transport in medium-size cities; and (b)
the incentive provided by the grant element of the federal program for
transport investment in medium-size cities. Also, the flexibility of the line
of credit approach will allow resources to be transferred from a sub-project
which is not performing well (with actual disbursements le  than 401 of those
planned by the end of the second year of implementation) to new sub-projects
in other cities. The Federal grant system is attractive to the cities and
should motivate good performance.
2.71     In view of the considerations outlined in the preceding paragraph,
the risks are expected to be manageable and the conditionality has been
designed to contain them within acceptable limits. Offsetting these risks are
the significant benefits expected from the project, particularly from its
institutional strengthening components. If these components are successfully
implemented, the benefits in term of improved resource allocation would go
well beyond the direct benefits estimated in Table 5, even if performance in
respect to some other objectives falls short of expectations.



- 44 -
III.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following:
(a)   SEDESOL's and BANOBRAS' commitment to carry-out their
respective strengthening programs, including the contracting
of remaining counterpart staff and commitment to keep all
positions filled at least until the end of the project (paras.
2.11 and 2.12);
(b)   the general content, organizational and implementation
arrangements of the National Training Program as defined in
Annex 4 (para. 2.13);
(c)   the content of the PVT, including the mix of Federal, local,
and sub-project funds, municipality and component eligibility
criteria, the types of project for consideration as immediate
actions and the commitment to provide adequate federal budget
finance throughout the project (paras. 2.27 and 2.29);
(d)    sub-project agreements would require participating
municipalities and states to comply with the PVT Operating
Manual (para. 2.29);
(e)   that the final decision as to which municipalities and sub-
projects should receive Bank financing would lie with the Bank
(para. 2.30) and that not more than 12 municipalities would
participate in Part B3 (para. 2.25);
(f)   the requirements and eligibility criteria for on-lending
(para. 2.31);
(g)   the Guarantor shall submit to the Bank for its review and
comment, at least sixty days before the end of each fiscal
year, the proposed budget allocations by the Federal
Government to the PVT for the succeeding fiscal year. Failure
to provide sufficient federal counterpart funding would
constitute an action of default (para. 2.39);
(h)   BANOBRAS shall, in conjunction with each sub-borrower, furnish
to the Bank for its review and comment, the proposed Annual
Transport Investment Plan of each sub-borrower at least sixty
days before the end of each fiscal year (para. 2.40);
(i)   the procurement, disbursement and auditing arrangements
(paras. 2.52, 2.54 and 2.59);
(j)   BANOBRAS shall submit a progress report to the Bank for its
review and comment, within 60 days of the end of each quarter.
The reports would cover institutional development and project
execution achievements (progress on disbursement of loan funds
would be reported only in June and December, for each



- 45 -
semester) and compare them with appraisal projections and
goals and present a critical assessment of problems and issues
arising during relevant period of project execution. They
would also evaluate compliance with sub-loan conditionality by
each city, and actions taken to enforce compliance. In cases
of unsatisfactory progress, the reports would also detail
proposals for adjustments and remedial actions (para. 2.55);
(k)    the timing and agendas of the annual and Mid Term Review of
Project progress and issues (para. 2.58).
3.2      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)    all counterpart staff for SEDESOL and BANOBRAS, as described
in their Strengthening Programs shown in Annex 2 and 3,
respectively, will be in place including specialists in
procurement (paras. 2.11, 2.12 and 2.51);
(b)    the contract for the provision of the Intensive Course of the
National Training Program as defined in Annex 4 will have been
signed (para. 2.13);
(c)   the Guarantor and BANOBRAS shall provide to the Bank a
satisfactory executed sub-loan agreement under Part B3 (a) of
the Project, defining the Guarantor/BANOBRAS transfer and on-
lending procedures (para. 2.39).
3.3      Retroactive financing of up to US$4 million for expenditures made
after June 30, 1992 is recommended (para. 2.54).
3.4      With the above agreements, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$200 million equivalent for a period of 15 years including 5 years
of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.






- 46 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
City and Investment Eligibility Criteria
Introduction
1.        Urban transportation involves an integrated system of roads,
private and public vehicles for the movement of goods and passengers,
pedestrians, parking, traffic signaling and, in some cases, railroads and
metros as well as land use planning. A change in one component of the urban
transport system affects the other components. It is therefore necessary that
urban transportation be analyzed in an integrated manner so that improvements
in one area does not cause problems in another one.   In order to improve the
technical quality and development impacts of urban transport planning and
development, SHCP, SEDESOL and BANOBRAS will take an integrated approach to
the analysis of urban transport issues in medium size cities. Urban transport
investment appraisals, recommendations for regulatory reform and for technical
assistance and training, will be grouped together to form a coherent sub-
project in each eligible city.
2.        This approach will be implemented through the Program for Urban
Transport in Medium-size Cities ("Programa de Vialidad y Transporte Urbano
para Ciudades Medias", PVT), described in paras. 1.14 through 1.17, which
provides a suitable policy framework for the Project. The PVT is designed to
provide financial assistance, in the form of a federal grant and access to
federal loans, to cities meeting the city and project eligibility criteria.
Cities meeting the criteria will be eligible for up to three sub-loans, one
each for financing: (a) the studies to prepare an Integral Transport Plan
(ITP); (b) immediate actions to resolve specific urban transport problems,
and; (c) implementation of the recommendations of the ITP.
City Eligibility Criteria
3.        Participation in the PVT by any city will be dependent on the
fulfillment of eligibility criteria. The first criterion will need to be
satisfied before the municipality and\or state could enter into a sub-loan
under Parts Bl and B2 of the proposed project, as will a commitment to satisfy
the other criteria (para. 2.30). Confirmation that the other conditions had
been met will be required before a sub-loan under Part B3 of the proposed
project could be made (para. 2.31). The financing of any sub-loan with Bank
funds will require the prior consent of the Bank. The following are the
criteria for city eligibility for the proposed project:
(a) a population between 400,000 and 1,200,000 in the 1990 national
census. Consideration will also be given to other cities if they
are of significant economic importance to the country, such as some
of those on the US-Mexico border and some regional capitals. A



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
proposal for inclusion of a city under this exception will require
the agreement of the Bank;
(b) completion of an Integral Transport Plan (ITP). Specific terms of
reference for each city, acceptable to the Bank, will be prepared
by SEDESOL, with the assistance of the municipality (Annex 6, para.
9). These Terms of Reference will include requirements to analyze
and make recommendations in respect to: (a) institutional reform;
(b) traffic management; (c) public transport; (d) improvements to
corridors to low income areas; (e) infrastructure maintenance; and
(f) environmental issues related to road transport. The
municipalities will be required to make a commitment to use their
transport planning and traffic engineering units to update and
review programs and policies recommended in the ITPs. Subsequent
failure to implement fully the agreed policy recommendations of the
ITP will be an event of default under the sub-loan;
(c) The creation or strengthening, as warranted, of transport planning,
traffic engineering unit and traffic management units. In cases
where these activities are the responsibility of the state, the
requirement will be that the functions be transferred to the
municipalities before completion of the sub-project; alternatively,
where there are valid reasons for not following this course, that a
state delegation be established in the municipality. Establishment
of a local delegation could facilitate the transfer of functions to
the municipality at a later date. The municipalities will also be
required to make a commitment to use their transport planning and
traffic engineering units to update and review programs and
policies recommended in the ITPs;
(d) Agreement by the participating municipalities and states to make
adequate budget provision for their share of sub-project funding
and not to initiate any urban transport investment outside of the
agreed program with a total cost over US$3.0 million, while the
sub-project is being implemented, without the prior agreement of
SEDESOL and the Bank. Remedies of the Bank may apply if such
provisions are not made or if such investments are made without
prior agreement, although at the Bank's discretion these remedies
may only apply to the amount of the proposed Loan corresponding to
the sub-project where the particular investment is being made;
(e)  A formal commitment to the participation of the municipality in the
project to be agreed with the State. Regulation of public
transport operations is frequently divided between agencies at
different levels of government (para. 1.18). The policy of the
federal government is to decentralize responsibility for urban
transport affairs to the lowest appropriate tier of government.
This condition will include a requirement that the municipalities
have in place, agree to strengthen or create, as appropriate, a
competent public transport regulatory agency;



- 48 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
(f)  A commitment and plan of action from the municipalities to develop
a road and signals maintenance capability. Compliance with the
plan will be monitored during implementation and will be a
condition of access to further lending. The municipalities will be
required to make sufficient budget allocation for maintenance
activities during implementation of the project, based on a
calculation of minimum needs as identified in the integrated urban
transport studies;
(g)  The completion of economic and environmental assessments of sub-
project components, as part of the ITPs, to ensure: (a) that all
projects are economically viable (that is, that they have an MERR
of at least 12% and that no alternative proposal has a higher MERR
(the difference between ERR and MERR is explained in Annex 4, par.
8); and (b) that any significant negative environmental impacts are
identified and necessary mitigating measures proposed in a form
acceptable to SEDESOL and to the Bank. SEDESOL has already
prepared a methodology acceptable to the Bank for assessing current
environmental conditions which are influenced by urban roads and
traffic, and for reviewing and implementing remedial actions for
those environmental factors which will be adversely influenced by
proposed actions. Where the sub-project may affect in a negative
manner a specific community, the city should agree to provide to
the affected community the environmental assessment and the
proposed mitigatory and/or compensation measures with reasonable
anticipation and to discuss it with the affected community. In the
case of relocation, the Bank guidelines will be strictly followed.
Bank approval of such sub-projects will be contingent inter alia
upon compliance with these requirements;
(h)  The completion of final engineering and bid documentation for
components comprising a minimum of 20% of the sub-project, to
reduce the risk of slow implementation of sub-projects. The
supervision of the preparation of these final designs will be
included in the terms of reference of the ITPs, financed under Part
B2 of the proposed project, although their execution will be
contracted separately under Part B3.b;
(i)  All reasonable alternatives to any sub-project component which
involved the displacement of population should have been reviewed
and found to be inferior to the that proposed, and that the
affected community should have been given an adequate opportunity
to comment on the proposal. In addition, the evaluation of all sub-
project components will include an assessment of their
environmental impact and the proposed components will include
mitigatory and/or compensatory actions; and
(j)  That the municipality or state demonstrate to the satisfaction of
SEDESOL that they have the administrative capacity and ability to
undertake the sub-project, preferably by the creation of a fully
staffed sub-project management unit, and to meet all the on-going
conditions of participation, and demonstrate that a sub-loan



- 49 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
agreement with BANOBRAS has been executed in line with the standard
requirements of the Bank for such agreements.
Number of participating cities
4.        The 1990 national census results showed that there were 21 cities
with a population between 400,000 and 1,200,000 with a total population of
about 12.8 million or about 16Z of the national total. There are a further 25
cities with a population greater than 200,000, with a total population of 7.2
million and representing a further 8Z of the national population (Table 1).
The maximum number of participating municipalities in Part B3 of the proposed
project been established at twelve. This reflects resource constraints and an
estimate of the manageable limit for adequate supervision while maximizing the
institutional improvements to be gained under the proposed project. No limit
has been established for participation in Part Bl of the project.
Participation in Part B2 will be conditional on adequate progress on the
development of the ITP under Part BE and particularly the completion of final
designs for the components to be included in the immediate action plan.
Participation in Part B3 will be conditional on compliance with the on-lending
conditions. It is anticipated that some participants in Part Bl will be
unable to satisfy the on-lending criteria.
5.        No rigid criteria have been determined for participation by cities
of less than 400,000 population in the proposed project and each proposal will
be considered on the basis of the case made for the city's importance to the
development of the national economy and the gravity of its urban transport
problems. Only a few of the cities in the group are expected to satisfy the
importance component of criterion (a).
Additional city requirements
6.        In addition to satisfying the eligibility criteria, the
municipality or state carrying out the sub-project will also undertake to:
(a) submit annually its urban transport investment and maintenance
budgets to demonstrate compliance with the on-lending conditions
(b) follow procurement guidelines established under the project;
(c) have all subproject accounts audited annually by independent
auditors, approved by BANOBRAS, and submit reports no later then
the end of June of each year;
(d) implement the monitoring program agreed as part of the sub-loan
agreements and submit quarterly progress reports; and
(e) during sub-project preparation, appoint a sub-project coordinator
to coordinate activities between the various city and state
departments with responsibilities in respect to the sub-project.



- 50 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Investment Zligibility Criteria
7.        An urban transport investment shall be considered eligible for
financing under Part B3 of the proposed project provided it meets the
following criteria:
(a) complies with the objectives of the PVT and forms part of the
Integrated Transport Plan (ITP) of the city;
(b) an economic evaluation is provided showing that the investment is
an efficient solution to the identified problem. This will require
that the investment be shown to have an MERR greater than 12Z and
that this is greater than that for any alternative with similar
benefits (a definition of MERR is provided in Annex 5);
(c) it has been subject to an environmental assessment which provides a
positive outcome in respect to air quality, noise, visual and
community cohesion criteria (para 2.20 (f)). In the case of
negative impacts, appropriate mitigating measures should be devised
and included;
(d) includes any necessary complementary institutional and policy
action plans for successful implementation and operation; and
(e) have a planned implementation period greater than two years, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank.
Candidate measures for Immediate Action
8.        As part of the development of the ITPs a plan of immediate actions,
if any, will be prepared, and sub-loans will be available for their
implementation under Part B2 (para. 2.19). All eligible measures will be
subject to planning and evaluation (technical, economic, financial, and
environmental) according to standard Bank requirements but, identification and
implementation will not be dependent on the completion of the ITP.
9.        The objective of the plan will be to improve traffic and transport
conditions in a city in the immediate future and at low cost. In most
instances the qualifying actions will have been prepared in advance of the
municipality or state entering the PVT and will have been subjected to the
normal criteria for qualifying for Bank funding. The proposed Immediate
Action Plans will require Bank approval before their implementation and their
procurement will follow standard Bank guidelines.
10.       Immediate action measures are to be sought which will be justified
under any traffic and transport strategy developed under the Integral Study.
The total implementation cost of the urgent actions will not normally exceed
US$5 million, equivalent to 10% of the cost of the average investment plan to
be approved under the ITP. The following list shows the types of action
envisaged.



- 51 -                                ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
i)   Measures to improve the efficiency of traffic operations including:
(a) traffic management; (b) exclusive bus lanes; (c) reversible
lanes; (d) traffic signals schemes; (e) intersection improvements
by low cost means such as channelization, access control and
changes in signal phasing; (f) signing and marking of roads to
improve capacity and safety; and (g) parking controls.
ii) Civil works to eliminate bottlenecks by limited construction such
as minor road widening.
iii) Policy measures to reduce vehicle flows in congested areas
including access controls, parking and loading/unloading controls,
traffic circulation schemes etc and all associated traffic
management measures.
iv) Actions to improve the short term maintenance of roads and traffic
control devices, particularly the purchase of equipment and spare
parts.
v)   Technical assistance to strengthen institutions such as municipal
traffic agencies and highway planning departments, to improve
traffic and road planning, operations, maintenance etc and to
public transport companies to improve operational practices.
vi) Implementation of environmental monitoring systems and of actions
to bring about environmental improvements, such as the construction
of noise barriers and the introduction of vehicle emissions
testing.
Financing limits
11.       Although there are no formal limits to the total funding available
to any municipality or state under the operating rules of the PVT, the funds
available, in comparison to the number of potentially eligible cities and
their indicative investment needs, indicate that some restriction will have to
be imposed. It is unlikely that any municipality will receive grants and
loans totalling more than US$30 million equivalent. The maximum amount
available from the Project to finance immediate actions is US$5 million
equivalent per city.



-  52  -                                         Annox 1
Table I
MEXICO
MEDIUM -SIZE CMES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Candidate aities for Participation in the Program
Cumulative    Cumnulaive
9-ty               ~~~~State                 Populationt        Population    percentage
I      Puebla                      PUB                      1. 054,9.          1,5,211
2      LeonG'Q724.1,774.4
3      aiudad luarz                CHt,                       826,127"         7,753,01           3.4%
4      Torreon.        (6          COAHf.                     686.CRI:.        3.43%O.4
S  I1~~~~~~~~ma    B.C         ~~~~~~~~~746,:465                4807:52
6        appnJAL=OO                                          .7117648793,0
7       San Luis Potosi (3)        &LP..                      658,740:         ,5,556,66
8.  . Mezicai                      BC                                                              .%
9       Qrlwaan.                   SIN                        602 HAU4         '6,7j16         ......3.%.
IO-     Meida           I)YU                                   595,16.           ,5,
11      Acapulco                    GRO                        528:              .4,5098
12     :Chihuahua.                  CHIHI53.47                                  8.478,987104
13      Tampico        (4            AP                        53808,928
14:     AguascAilentcsAO                                       56,8             9,49921           1.7
15:     MorelHa                     MCI49769,8,6                                                   2
16      Toluca.        ()           MEX                        4760*047,9                          29
17      Veracruz       17            E                          7~661,4,6                          3..9
18 a    salttillo      ()COAH                                  46,93.          1.1,3               41
19        ueeroORO                                             454,059         11.870,95146
20       Hermosijlo                 SON'                       449,472          12.321,47         15.296
21       DurangD                    DGO                        41,1              274482            57
Sub total meditm Cities                            12,734.482: 1.1
22       Vafla HermosaTA                                       390,161]         13,124,643        16,2%
23       Reynosa                    TAMPS                      375,549          13,5(13,19        16.6
24       Irapuato                   G'M:                       367,471:         13,862,63         11
25      TIaquepaque.                JAL.37,.                                    14.W6375%
26       Matamro                    T'Ahm                      323,39           14,524N0  ....%
27:      Celaya                     GTIO                       3571,3,8                            83
28       Mazai.ln                  :SIN.3114,249                                1S,1.3,8 1187
.29      CiudadObrego               SON31,71,490                                              .   19%
30)     LAs Mochils                 SIN                        30M7,71.706194
31       Xalapa                     VER                        298,331..       16,068,747:1'      49.8%
32       Tuxtla Gtcz                CHIS                       295.615:         16-164X62         20.1%
33       CuraaaMOR                                             281,752'1.4,1                       05
34.      Cordoba                    VB1 47A8451,995                                               21.29%
35.    EF.nsaada                    B.C.                       26,0              7,414,64:.       2,%
36       GuassveSI                                             25..2            17,12.85:.
37       moaclova                                                          ..O..2.,891,9. ,74  :.22.1*
38  Tepic                       NAY.                      23kd103          1510=7 24%
39  Coaizacoalos          ~~~V]ER                     4451862Z,4Z9.
40,     Tk'pachula                  CHI                        22,2SM           I8,82441
41.      Nuv Laed                    AMPS'27921,6,2                                                35
42~   Uruapan::              y      mtiCRt7121,7,6
43       Qazaca                     OAX                        21,4I9,492,76240
44  Ciudad Victoria             TAMPS:           .         0780             97...8242
45      SuIrnaw TO                                              062tS1990481
46   ..Minatilia                    EL                         9,4             20,16624.7%
Sub total  .      sub totalmedlumSma  Ciiate7,271                                  ::                         .
'TOAL    'TOTAL MEDIUM sad MEDIUM-SMALL C7S2,0.5                                                             47
TOTAL MEXICO                         .    ~~~~~~~~1,24,64$                      x0o
1      Includes Progreso                (37,86)                      5 Only Toluca
2       Includes Ramos Aripe             (28,128)                     6 Includes G.Palacio
3      Includes Soledad de Graciano Sanchez (132,921)                   & Cd. Lerdo (330,210)
4       Includes Cd. Madero & Altamnira    (242,2D4)                  7 Includes Boca del Rio
Source: Population Census, 1990                                                                        08-Oct-92
05:11 PM



- 53 -                              Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SEDESOL Strenathenina Program
Background
1.    Until recently, the transfer of central government funds to states and
municipalities for urban transport improvements has boen primarily a subject
for negotiation between the central government and the local agencies
involved. Only limited evaluation of projects was carried out. Increasod
emphasis by the Federal Government on decentralization, and the creation of
the Programa de Vialidad y Transporte para Ciudades Medias (paras. 1.14
through 1.17), means that urban transport improvements will now be funded by a
mix of local, borrowed and federal funds. To qualify for federal funds,
projects will have to be subject to evaluation and only those which meet
acceptable technical, economic, financial, environmental and social evaluation
standards will qualify for Federal Government transfers. Projects must also
form part of an acceptable urban transport strategy developed from an
integrated urban transport study of the municipality concerned.
Role of SEDESOL
2.    The Secretariat of Social Development has been charged with development
of urban transport policy, among other urban development matters. However,
for various reasons, particularly the financial distribution mechanisms
between the Federal Government and the states/municipalities for urban
transport improvements, SEDUE, the predecessor of SEDESOL, was not formerly
active in developing transport policy or in assisting municipalities in the
development of cost-effective urban transport systems.
3.    SEDESOL has now been assigned a key role in the PVT, of which the
Project is an integral part. The role involves the technical evaluation of
the Integral Transport Plans (ITPs) and the economic and technical assessment
of the sub-project components to be financed by the Program. In carrying out
this role SEDESOL will establish, publish and promote standards, norms and
criteria; provide advice and assistance to municipalities on transport policy
and for planning, design, implementation, supervision and monitoring of
studies and projects; give guidance on public transport organization and
regulation and other sectoral institutional issues; and, investigate and
develop appropriate technology.
4.    To meet the challenge of its new role, SEDUE reorganized in late 1991
and created the "Direccion General de Infrastructure Urbana" (DGIU). DGIU was
divided into sectoral units, one of which is responsible for urban transport,
and is further supported by technical units (for financial analysis,
statistics, training, etc.) to enable DGIU to meet its responsibilities. The
new structure of SEDESOL includes a "Direcci6n General de Infrastructure y
Equipamiento" (DGIE) with similar functions to DGIU.



- 54 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
5.    The transport sector directorate of DGIE, the "Direccion de
Infraestructura, Vialidad y Transporte" (DIVT), will be responsible for
planning, evaluation and implementation of the urban transport components of
the and of the Project. DIVT has been adequately staffed with professionals,
technicians, and support staff and the number will reach the full complement
before effectiveness. Additionally, the environmental directorate of SEDESOL
will also be actively involved in the evaluation of, and recommendations
regarding, environmental issues in the development of urban transport
programs. The system of sub-secretariate of SEDESOL and the organizational
structure of DIVT are shown in Attachment 1 to this Annex.
6.    Initially, DIVT activities under the PVT will be based in SEDESOL
offices in Mexico City and will be carried-out by DIVT staff assisted by
consultants. As the Project progresses and the benefits of training (see
Annex 6) begin to be realized, much of the supervision and day-to-day liaison
with municipalities can be achieved with personnel and consultants in regional
offices.
Technical Assistance
7.    The PVT is a new initiative and will be implemented by the new DIVT,
within SEDESOL. While SEDESOL has selected with care the qualified
professionals to staff DIVT, urban transport methodologies and processes are
untried and the staff have little practical experience in implementing this
type of program. Consequently, SEDESOL proposes to strengthen the management
and technical capabilities of DIVT through training and technical assistance.
The training will be provided through the National Training Program (Annex 6),
and through day-to-day contact with specialist technical assistance hired to
assist DIVT in implementation of the PVT and the Project.
8.    The technical assistance will assist DIVT to establish the PVT and the
Project and to cope with the workload generated by the initial stages of the
program. This will be achieved by providing specialized advice in traffic
engineering and management, transport planning, public transport operations,
infrastructure maintenance management and transport economics. The technical
assistance program is designed to supplement and transfer specialized
experience to the DIVT staff already hired by SEDESOL. The high technical
level and experience of urban transport planning required makes it unlikely
that this technical assistance could be provided by local consultants. The
first 40 months of technical assistance have been contracted in accordance
with the August 1981 "Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agencv."
9.    The total of staff-months of technical assistance will vary with the
sector specialty, reception and interest in the PVT by the municipalities and
the ability of SEDESOL to maintain qualified technical staffing levels
continuously. Over the life of the Project, the following levels of technical
assistance per sector specialty will be needed: (i) Traffic
Engineering/Traffic Management - 36 staff-months, (ii) Transport Planning - 36
staff-months, (iii) Public Transport Operations - 24 staff-months, (iv)
Maintenance Management - 24 staff-months, and (v) Transport Economics - 24
staff-months.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
10.   Thus, technical assistance totalling approximately 144 staff-months will
be provided for the Project period. During the first 6 months of the Project,
five sector specialists will work together, with two continuing for a further
six months. At the end of the first six month period, the need for further
technical assistance will be reviewed. The technical assistance will assist
SEDESOL to develop methodologies (including technical manuals), processes,
work programs and appropriate methodologies to be used in future Integral
Studies and to evaluate proposed municipality transport investments under the
PVT and the Project. The technical assistance will also assist municipalities
to develop and supervise their respective sub-projects.
11.   During the first Annual Review Meeting of the Project, with
participation of SEDESOL, BANOBRAS, SHCP and the Bank, progress will be
evaluated and it will be decided if, which and for what period, technical
assistance should be extended beyond the first 75 staff months. The remaining
technical assistance allocation will be utilized on an as-needed basis to
address specific issues that arise during Project/sub-project implementation.
Facilities and Equipment
12.   DIVT has adequate office space in SEDESOL headquarters and in regional
field offices. It has desk top computers, portable computers, printers,
vehicles, and a modest library.   Additional computers are needed, as well as
software, audio visual equipment and reference material. Procurement of
equipment to be acquired to adequately support the Project will be carried
out in accordance with the Bank's 1985 "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits."
Consultants
13.    The specifications of the three categories of consultants needed during
the Project in addition to technical assistance are defined in the following
paragraphs.
14.     Supervision of works in the participating municipalities will be
carried out by consultants contracted directly by the participating
municipalities and states. SEDESOL will maintain an oversight, by central
office and the regional delegation staff, as part of its normal operational
activities. The cost of supervision will be included in SEDESOL's operating
budget and recovered in the lending arrangements between BANOBRAS and the
participating municipalities.
15.   During the initiation of the Project, however, when greater control is
advisable, and until greater responsibility can be assumed by the regional
delegations, there is justification to include financing of SEDESOL
supervision within the Project. This will be only for the first two years.
Thereafter the supervision requirements will be reduced and the full-time
SEDESOL staff will have become more experienced in supervision, so further
Bank participation will be needed. Estimated costs are based on two
consultants visiting each city for two days each quarter, and spending one day
in the office following the visit for reporting.



- 56 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
16.     During the early stages of the Project, all potentially eligible
municipalities must be visited and at least five are expected to apply for
Project funds before effectiveness. This will create a higher workload than
would be normal for DIVT. It is proposed to meet these unusual staff demands
with temporary staff, rather than through the hiring of permanent staff who
may later be made redundant. The temporary staff will be financed under the
Project for a period up to 2 years. If they are still needed after that time,
they will be considered essential to the normal working environment and
financed by SEDESOL. Approximately 115 staff-months of consultant technical
assistance, together with 36 man-months of temporary staff have been included
in the project design.
17.     In addition there will be the need throughout the Project life for
short-term consultants to carry-out special assignments, including, inter
alia. adaptation of software packages, computerization of work-flow process,
staff supplementation during periods of concentrated activity, or special
assistance to municipalities. The consultants will be contracted on an as-
needed basis with prior approval of the Bank. Approximately 30 staff-months
over the life of the Project are anticipated.
Study Tour
18.   Much has been done within Latin American in the context of urban
transport including public transport operations and planning, infrastructure
maintenance and traffic management particularly, for example, in Brazil,
Argentina, and Chile. It is proposed to arrange a study tour to: Sao
Paulo/Curitiba for operation of busways and traffic management; Buenos Aires
for organization and regulation of public transport; and Santiago for traffic
management, transport planning and maintenance. The study tour will last
approximately three weeks, and involve six staff from DIVT (the two traffic
engineers, transport planner, public transport operations specialist,
maintenance management specialist) and six specialists from municipalities
with Sub projects. The program will be managed in each country by a local
consultant. The tour will take place during the last quarter of the first
year of the proposed project to provide ample opportunity for experience
gained to be used during the remainder of the implementation period.
Promotion and Distribution
19.   As in many countries, the benefits of integrated urban transport
management, public transport organization and regulation, and cost-effective
maintenance, are not fully appreciated by most municipal officials and
technicians. In addition, the impact on the municipalities of the changes in
Federal Government approach to financial assistance for urban transport
projects and the attendant requirements, need to be publicized in light of the
potential benefits. SEDESOL staff will work in cooperation with the Promotion
consultant contracted by BANOBRAS (Annex 4, para 8) to develop and distribute
information and literature and to advise and assist states and municipalities
to fully understand the Project.



- 57 -                                Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
Summary
20.   The SEDESOL Strengthening Program will be a combination of efforts
involving training, technical assistance, equipment, consultants, study tours,
and development and distribution of information. Training will be included in
the National Training Program, described in Annex 4. The total cost of the
proposed institutional strengthening of SEDESOL will be US$ 3.5 million, made
up as follows:
Activity                                __US$
Technical Assistance                        2,640,000
Equipment                                     106,000
Consultants                                   625,000
Study tour                                     79,000
Promotion and distribution                     50,000
[ Total                                      3,500,000
21.   The schedule of contracts and activities will be as in the following
Table, but subject to review at the annual Review Meetings.
I Activity                              |Start                Completion
First Technical Assistance Contract
Highway Design Manual                    September 1992      January 1993
Economic Evaluation Manual               December 1992       March 1993
Public Transport Operations Manual       September 1992      February 1993
Environmental Assessment Manual         December 1992        March 1993
Preparation of ITPs                      January 1993        September 1993
Supervision of ITPs                     March 1993           September 1993
Assessment of ITPs                       June 1993           September 1993
Second Technical Assistance Contract
Preparation of ITPs                     May 1993             November 1993
Supervision of ITPe                     May 1993             November 1993
Assessment of ITPs                      May 1993             November 1993
Further Technical Assistance
To be determined during First Annual
Review
Supervision (Temporary Staff)
Supervision of ITPs by SEDESOL          March 1993          March 1995
Study Tour                               September 1993      September 1993



- 58 -
ANNZ 2
Attachment I
Page I of 3
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CRART OF SEDESOL
SUBSECRETARIAT OF URBAN DEVELOPMeNT AND INFRASTRUCTVRC
DEPARTMENT OF
INFRASTRUCTURE AND
EQUIPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF INTERACTION
AND PROCRESS OF
PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
HIGHWAYS AND
TRANSPORT
IDIVISION OF PROGRAMS AND
PROJECTS FOR SOLID WASTE L
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
DIVISION OF EQUIPMENS FOR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION FOR
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE COORDINATION



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment I
Page 2 of 3
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF SEDESOL
DEPARTKENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND EQUIPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
HIGHWAYS AND TRANSPORT
I  I  SUBDEPARTMENT FOR        1
[SUBDEPARTHENT OF HIGHWAY      | SUBDEPARTMENT FOR           SPECIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
I INFRASTRUCTURE                     TRANSPORT                     PROGRAKS
SUBDEPARTHEN  FOR     I
DIVISION OF                 PLANNING DIVISION           SPECIAL INFRASTRUCTURE I
FIELD STUDIES                                                  PROJECTS          ]
DIVISION FOR OPERATION          SUBDEPARTMENT FOR
DIVISION FOR HIGHWAY                   AND                       MONITORING
MAINTENANCE                    MAINTENANCE             INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMS
DIVISION OF ECONOMIC
DIVISION FOR TRAFFIC                  AND
ADMINISTRATION               FINANCIAL STUDIES
DIVISION FOR HIGHWAY         DIVISION OF TRANSPORT
SAFETY                       SYSTEM



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 3 of 3
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND LEVEL OF STAFFING DIVT
Staff level                Total                       In place by
DIVT                       effectiveness
Professional               11                           11
Technical                   11                            4
Support                      9                            5
Total-----------------------------3----------------20---------
Total                       31                          20
--------------------------------------------------------------



- 61 -                                ANX 3
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BANOBRAS Strengthening Program
Role of BANOBRAS
1.    BANOBRAS responsibilities under the Project are set out in Annex 6,
which describes the sub-project preparation and execution. The same
terminology for the Project process has been employed in the present
description of the BANOBRAS strengthening program which relates to the
following parts of the Project:
(a)   Part A2 - National component, BANOBRAS strengthening
(b)   Part B1 - preparation, including Diagnostic Studies, Action Plans
and Investment Plans of the Integral Transport Plans (ITPs), and
the identification, evaluation, design and of the plans for
immediate actions;
(c)   Part B2 - implementation of the plans for immediate actions; and
(d)   Part B3 - implementation of the ITPs.
Strengthening Program
2.    The responsibilities of BANOBRAS under the Project will be exercised by
the "Gerencia de Proyectos, Vialidad y Transporte" (GPVT), under the
"Direccion de Financiamiento del Desarrollo" (DFD). The structures of DFD and
GPVT are shown in Attachment 1, Tables 1 and 2. BANOBRAS has determined that
Project work should be allocated to two main sub directorates of GPVT -
"Financiamiento Integral" and "Promocion".
3.    BANOBRAS' strengthening program, Part A2 of the Project, will have two
components:
(a)   internal actions, mainly increases in BANOBRAS staff in the two
sub directorates to facilitate the development of the units
involved in sub-project preparation and execution; and
(b)   strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance,
consultant services and essential equipment.
4.    Part A2 - Internal Strengthening:  The management of the sub directorate
of "Financiamiento Integral" will comprise a unit head and two division chiefs
- one for financial analyses and one for bidding. The duties of the sub
directorate will be carried out by 4 professional staff with financial and
contract experience. It is proposed to contract 2 of the staff for 2 years;
BANOBRAS will provide counterpart staff such that they can receive on-job



- 62 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
training and BANOBRAS will take over all duties of these two contracted staff
after two years.
5.    Part Bl - Promotion:    To assist BANOBRAS identify which of the
potential 46 cities listed in Table 1 of Annex I would participate in the
Project, it is proposed to fund:
(a)   a consultant for the preparation of a "promotional package".
Outline Terms of Reference are set out in Attachment A. In
general, the consultant will prepare explanatory and standard
documents which will make clear to the cities the scope and
objectives of the program, the terms and conditions under which
BANOBRAS (Project) loans will be granted, the procedures necessary
for cities to qualify for loans and the bidding procedures for
consultants, works and goods which will must be followed; and
(b)   the preparation of a video detailing the role of urban transport
in city development, describing cost effective and good practice
in urban transport and traffic techniques and demonstration of
successful traffic and transport systems both in Mexico and
overseas.
6.    Once the cities have been identified, it will be necessary to explain
the relationship between transport planning and investment and financial
responsibility to the states and municipalities. Since this area is concerned
with traffic and transport policy, and BANOBRAS is relatively weak in this
area, it is proposed to contract 3 staff for 1 year. BANOBRAS will provide
counterpart staff such that they can receive on-job training and BANOBRAS will
take over all duties of these two contracted staff after two years.
7.    Parts Bl, B2, and B3 - Financial analyses of municipalities:  BANOBRAS
will be responsible for: (a) determining the financial impact of any sub-
project loans on city finances, and; (b) assessing the financial status of
candidate municipalities and states, and verifying that the proposed sub-
project financing arrangements satisfy the financing conditions for on-
lending, particularly those involving direct cost recovery (eg betterment
taxes for roads, toll roads, parking facilities etc). While BANOBRAS has much
experience in these areas, it is considered that technical assistance is
needed to assist in defining procedures to be followed, in preparing
guidelines for the financial analysis to be included as part of the ITPs. The
program provides for a financial analyst with experience in transport to
prepare the guidelines.
8.    Parts B2 and B3 (c) - Immediate Actions Implementation of ITPs:
BANOBRAS will be responsible for ensuring that procurement guidelines,
acceptable to the Bank, are followed for all sub-project components in all
cities. BANOBRAS has considerable experience in this area and performance
under the First Project has improved steadily, although the number of staff
involved are insufficient. To capitalise on this experience and to ensure a
greater depth of experience in BANOBRAS, it is proposed to employ consultants
to: (i) prepare a manual of standard bidding procedures, and (ii) give courses
on procurement.



-63 -                                 ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
9.    Parts B1, B2 and B3 - Monitoring:  The First Project has demonstrated
weaknesses in monitoring and ex-post evaluation of projects. BANOBRAS will be
responsible only for the financial monitoring, supervising compliance with
loan covenants and the preparation of Quarterly Reports in a timely manner.
To assist in setting up an effective internal reporting procedure in BANOBRAS,
a management consultant will be employed to establish working practices and to
train BANOBRAS staff.
10.   Parts A2, and B1, B2, and B3:  GPVT lacks basic equipment, largely
computers, to enable it to fulfill its role in an efficient manner. It is
proposed to fund a number of microcomputers, ancillary hardware and software
under the Project to enable GPVT to set up efficient working practices.
11.   Total Cost:  The total cost of the actions to strengthen BANOBRAS for
the Project are shown in the Table below:
Activity                                        US$m
Supplementary Staff
Financial Analyses                            49,000
Procurement                                   48,000
Promotion                                     24,000
Monitoring                                    24,000
Sub-total                                    145,000
Consultants
Financial Analysis                            40,000
Procurement                                   40,000
Promotion                                     40,000
Monitoring                                    20,000
140,000
Sub-total
Other
Viaticos (consultants and supp.staff)         30,000
Promotional video                             60,000
Computers                                     20,000
Software                                       5,000
Sub-total                                    115,000
Total                                        400,000



- 64 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
12.   The schedule of principal activities is shown in the following Table.
The implementation of this schedule will be reviewed during the course of the
Annual Review Meeting.
Activity                   Start               Completion
Supplementary Staff
Financial analysis         January 1993        December 1994
Procurement                March 1993          December 1994
Promotion                  August 1992         July 1993
Monitoring                 March 1992          February 1993
Consultants
Promotion                  August 1992         July 1993
Financial analysis         November 1992       October 1993
Procurement manual         January 1993        December 1993
Monitoring model           January 1993        May 1993
Equipment
Computers                  January 1993        December 1994
Software                   March 1993          March 1993



EXZICO
MEDIURH-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF BANOBRAS - DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF DEVELPHNTf
FINUCE
SUBDEPARTHENT OFl
URBAN INFRASTRUCTU;RE                             SUBDEPARTHENT OF
FINANCE                                     SERVICE FINANCE 
DIVISION OF URBAN                     iDIVISION OF URBAN LAND                          DIISION OF  HIGHWAY
INFRASTRUCTURE AND        DIVISION OF WATER SUPPLi                  AND                      AND                DIVISION OF PL^AMING N
EQUIPHENT                   AND DRAINACE                  HOUSImC rINANCz          TRANSPORT PROJECTS               CREDIT
a'1
oLu



MHDIUI-SIZE CITIES URANS TRAUSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF BANOBAAS
.DIVISIOB & POJE1CTS. HIGHWAYS AND TANOSPORT
COORDIENTIOH AND CREDIT CONTROL
OUTSIDE COUSULTAHIS
PROMOTION
FINANCIAL ANALYSTS
NOUITORING
COORDINATION AND CREDIT COFT; O  ..............'...........R BIDDING
[SUBDIVISION OF CREDIT    SUDIVISION OF TECHNICAL      SUBDIVISION OF BIDDING      SUBDIVISION OF
AND                         AND              ErVALUATION or                               ch
PRHONCTION           FIRAJIAL ANALYSIS                 CONTRACTING          CURRENT PROJECTS                             c
DIVISION    DIVISION      DIVISION      DIVISION       DIVISION     DIVISION    DIVISION    DIVISION
CHIEF CHIEF               CHIEF         CHIEF          CHIEF        CHIEF        CHIEF
,1  I, ,1                  1,          ,  i           i  . I  I                 1,
|SUtERVISOR  ||SUWPERVISOR                             SUPW ERVISOR              S  UPERVISOR 
ANXSTY                   |AALYST(s) AN    AALYST(s)                  |A| "LYST(s) 



- 67 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
The National TraininR Program
National Training Program Objectives
1.   The objectives of the National Training Program (NTP) are:
(a)       to train, in a short time, a nucleus of professionals such
that they have understanding of urban transport issues, urban
transport planning concepts, methodologies for analyses of
alternative transport proposals, and prioritization methods
for evaluating transport investments;
(b)       to develop the staff capabilities required to improve urban
traffic engineering and management practice, and;
(c)       to assist in the build up of staff capabilities in the longer
term in the traffic and transport sector, by a continuous
training and updating program for professionals and decision
makers.
The Courses
2.   To accomplish the objectives, an integrated training program is
envisaged. The NTP has commenced with a one year traffic management course
offered by the Universidad Nacional Autonomo de Mexico (UNAM) and supported by
SEDESOL. The course is already in progress and will not be financed by the
Project. The part of the NTP that will be financed by the Project will
comprise;
(a)       PART A - An Intensive Course  - an intensive course of about 4
months duration, aimed at engineers, economists and urban
planers in the middle sized cities, with the objective of
providing basic training in urban transport and traffic
planning. Preparation and delivery of the course is currently
being contracted. Depending on the recommendations of a post
course evaluation, it is expected that the course will be
repeated several times;
(b)       PART B - Updating Courses - a series of updating and special
topic courses and lectures provided periodically to the
professionals and managers in the cities, SEDESOL and BANOBRAS
on various issues and subjects in urban transport related
issues;
(c)       PART C - Regional Seminars - seminars aimed at particular
regional urban transport issues;



- 68 -                                 ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
(d)       PART D - Overseas Training - overseas training for a selected
group of successful participants from the Intensive Course and
professionals from the SEDESOL's DIE; and
(e)       PART E - An Evaluation Program - an evaluation program will be
undertaken to assess the impact and value of the NTP and to
assist in future planning of training.
PART A - The Intensive Course
3.   The objective of the Intensive Course is to provide, in a concentrated
period a total of 4 months full-time training, a well prepared course,
delivered by qualified professionals with extensive practical knowledge.
4.   The course is designed for engineers, economists, urban planners and
others with a sufficient technical background, but not necessarily with
previous traffic and transport experience. Participants will be assigned to
the course by their state or municipal government. It is expected that the
course will be given on an annual basis until such time as it is assessed that
sufficient trained professionals are available. In the first instance, one
course is being contracted, with an option for a second course at a later
date.
5.   The Intensive Course comprises four modules, viz: (a) Traffic
Engineering; (b) Transport Planning; (c) Transport Economics; (d) Public
transportation. Each module is divided into a series of lectures on specific
subjects. Details of the modules are as follows:
(a)       Transport Planning - The module covers: development of urban
transport objectives; definition of the aims of regional and
urban planning and assessment their interaction; methodologies
of urban transport planning; the modeling of urban transport
demand characteristics and traffic flow; the criteria to be
used in the selection of particular mathematical models; data
needs and geographic considerations; surveys and sampling
methods; the preparation of alternative scenarios and
characteristics of urban transport systems; methods of
evaluation of available software ; the preparation and
evaluation of investment programs;
(b)       Traffic Engineering - The module includes: the design of urban
streets and roads systems; traffic surveys and methods of the
application of their results; traffic flow characteristics;
road and signalized intersection capacity and intersection
design (round-about, priority, split levels, signalized); the
use of state of the art software for calculation of levels of
service; demonstrations and exercises in use of software
packages; road safety and road safety data considerations;
road signs and markings; the planning and provision of parking
facilities; special provision for public transport vehicles -
bus ways and bus priority systems; design considerations for



- 69 -                             A_MX 4
Page 3 of 6
pedestrianization scheme.; providing for bicycle wvays
planning for goods vehicles traffic; software and its
application for evaluation of short range solutions.
(c)       Public Transport - The module covers: the characteristics of
different public transport system, (taxis, para-transit,
buses, light rail, metro systems); the definition and
measurement of level of service; public transport network and
route planning; public transport operations; regulation and
privatization issues; public transport company operations -
operations, maintenance, vehicle choice and replacement,
tariff structures and profitability.
(d)       Transportation Economics - The module includes: project
evaluation criteria and methods; vehicle operating costs and
time related benefits; environmental assessments - vehicle
emissions, noise, visual intrusion and social severance;
sensitivity analysis; how to allow for economic growth and
inflation; priorities and the preparation of investment
programs; infrastructure and public transport finance.
6.   In addition to the four modules, a pre-requisite course is being offered
by SEDESOL to the Intensive Course participants. This includes an introduction
to personal computers, the use of basic software packages, and introductory
courses in statistics and economics.
7. The course will be spread over a period of up to one year, vith
participants having 40 hours of weekly contact with the lectures (lectures,
exercises and laboratory hours) in each monthly module, each module being
planned for about 160 hours training. The final details of course and module
duration are now being negotiated with the selected course provider.
8.   Course Procuremont The Intensive Course is being procured according to
the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants.
9.   Estimte of Intensive Course Costs:  Course cost estimates are divided
into two parts: (a) the cost of preparation and delivery of the by the
selected organization and (b) other costs to be met by SEDESOL locally (the
pre-requisite course and course administration noted in para 11). The cost
estimate is based on two courses but will be contracted once with the option
to provide all or part of the modules a second time. SZDESOL will finance the
local component of the course including offices/lecturer rooms, office
equipment, photocopier, course secretary, and food and accomodation for the
students. The Project will finance the contract for course preparation and
execution.
(i) Th. Intensive Course contract - the estimated amount of the
contract for providing the two courses, each of four modules is US$
700,000. This includes about 150 days of lectures for each course,
transport to/from the course location, subsistence of lecturers,
all preparation, course materials, equipment, audio-visual aids and



- 70 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
other equipment necessary for the preparation and delivery of the
courses; and
(ii) Other costs - the cost for providing the four week "pre-requisite
module" and for the local costs for the Intensive Course is
estimated at US$ 600,000. More than 70% of this cost is for the
accommodation and living costs of the course students.
PART B - Updating Courses
10. The objective of these Courses is to update urban transport
professionals and administrators with recent developments in their respective
fields of expertise, to provide refresher courses and to conduct regional
seminars on specific local, topics of interest. The updating program will
start after the completion of the first Intensive Course and comprise eight
two week cou es over a period of four years.
11. For the first two years, the courses will be administered and housed by
the same local organization that administers.the intensive course program.
Some of the lecturers will be selected from the SEDESOL Technical Assistance
Team, others will be contracted from local universities, institutions and
consulting firms. The subjects covered will be similar to those of the
Intensive Course, but with an emphasis on recent developments.
PART C - Regional Courses/Seminars and Workshops
12. This component of the Project will concentrate on providing to the city
and state professionals and administrators, basic explanations of the
relevance of the PVT to local problems, and of the application of traffic and
transport planning methods in the resolution of specific local and state
transport issues. It will comprise various elements, ranging from one-to-two
day regional seminars to one week courses and/or workshops. The
courses/seminars will be given in most of the candidate cities during the
first two years of the program. It is planned that each course will be for a
maximum of 25 students. The courses/seminars will be open to a wide range of
participants, including those from participating cities and state governments,
other city and state governments, professionals from Federal Government
agencies and from the private sector. It is expected that the courses will be
given twice a year for the first two years of the project (a total of four to
six weeks during the first two years).
13. As for the Updating Courses, the Regional Courses/Seminars will be given
by lecturers selected from the SEDESOL Technical Assistance Team contracted
from local universities, institutions and consulting firms. It is expected
that with the increased decentralization of responsibilities for urban
transport and the development of the profession, the need will arise for
additional courses at centers located all over the country.



- 71 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
14. Cost Estimates for the Updating Courses and Regional Seminars. The
Project will fund: (a) the cost of preparing the course materials and
presenting the Courses, (b) the administration costs, and (c) the subsistence
costs for the public sector participants. The participants salaries will be
paid by their respective employing agencies. The estimated cost for these
parts of the program, are US$ 100,000 for the Updating Courses and US$300,000
for the Regional Courses and Seminars. About 25% of the cost will comprise
course accommodation and participant subsistence costs.
PART D - Training Abroad
15. The objectives of training abroad is to increase the specialist skills
in urban transport planning and traffic engineering skills in Mexico. The
areas of specialization and the location of overseas training will be
determined by SEDESOL, advised by their technical assistants, during the
Project implementation period. Three professionals will be selected for the
program by a committee established by SEDESOL for this purpose. SEDESOL will
enter into an agreement by under which the professionals will agree to work
for three years (or other agreed period) in an assigned office with the option
of leaving and being charged for the course on a Dro-rata basis.
16.   Selected successful participants from the Intensive Course, or other
professionals with comparable background from SEDESOL, will be eligible for
overseas study specializing in a specific subject, such as transport
economics, urban rail, public transport operations or transportation modeling.
Participants will attend a specific university or institute to study/work for
up to a year, preferably working toward a higher degree, although working
overseas in a private sector company or public sector agency would not be
ruled out.
17. The Project will support the tuition, international travel and
subsistence of selected participants but not participant salaries. The
estimated cost for the overseas training, including travel, tuition and
subsistence, is US$ 90,000 for three students.
PART E - Post Evaluation Study
18.       The Project will also finance a post NTP evaluation study, aimed at
evaluating the course achievements. The study design will form an integral
part of the course proposal and will assist in the preparation of future
training programs in Mexico. The first evaluation will be made soon after the
termination of the first intensive course and will assist in the preparation
of further courses as well as providing information for the following annual
review. A special evaluation report will be made for consideration in the Mid
Term Review, and a final report will be made for inclusion in the PCR. The
cost of the evaluations is estimated at US$10,000.



- 72 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
The Total Cost of The Training Program
19. The following Table shows the expected cost of each of the components of
the NTP to be financed by the Project, which will finance 100% of the cost.
More than 70% of the cost is represented by the two intensive courses and of
this amount, 602 (42% of the total cost) represents the accommodation and
living costs of the students. This expenditure is considered justified given
the importance of the Intensive Courses in the NTP and the need of the NTP to
train a sufficient number of students for the decentralization of urban
transport planning to be feasible. Without the incentive of financing of the
students, there is a high risk that the municipalities and states would not
nominate students for the courses.
Part      Course                                           US$
Part A    SEDESOL cost for the pre-requisite
Course and two Intensive Courses                600,000
Contract for two Intensive Courses              700,000
Part B   Updating Course                                   100,000
Part C   Regional Course                                   300,000
Part D    Study courses abroad                              90,000      l
Part E   Post Evaluation Study                              10,000
Total                                                    1,800,000



- 73 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 8
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A.    Methodology
1.   An evolution has been carried out in the method used for the economic
evaluation for the first three cities. A standard method is now expected to be
used in future evaluations, but it will not be rigidly applied as the
circumstances of each city and each individual sub-project component might
require a variation on the standard method.
2.   The method of economic evaluation which can be used depends to a large
extent on the data which is available. There is no advantage in deciding on a
very sophisticated method of evaluation which requires extensive amounts of
data if there is no chance of that data being produced, or if it could be
produced, the cost is likely to be prohibitive.
3.   In the three cities whose projects have so far been evaluated, there has
been an attempt to evaluate individual sub-project components and the sub-
project as a whole. Some use was also made of economic evaluation to optimize
some of the proposed sub-project components.
4.   There are two fundamentally different ways of evaluating multiple road
improvement projects in an urban area. The simplest is to consider all the
improvements to be implemented simultaneously, and then to compare the
evaluation variables in the situation with and without the improvements. In
the application of this method it is common to find that the evaluation of
each individual project is made by estimating the change in vehicle operating
costs (and possibly vehicle occupants' time savings) on the road which is the
subject of the improvement. But the changes in travel speed on this road,
which are the determinant of the changes in operating costs and travel times,
can arise as much from changes else where on the network as on that link which
is the subject of a specific improvement. In these cases there will be a
misallocation of benefits, and possibly a wrong determination of which
particular components of an overall sub-project are economically justifiable,
even though the estimation of overall estimation of benefits might well be
correct. This method should therefore not be used to assess the economic
viability of components of a sub-project. It was used in the original
evaluation of the Ciudad Juarez sub-project.
5.   The alternative method starts in the same way, by assuming that all the
components of a sub-project are implemented simultaneously. This will allow a
determination to be made as to whether the overall sub-project is economically
viable. There is then a vital second stage, in which each individual component
of the overall subject is taken out, and the economic evaluation repeated with



- 74 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 8
the remaining components only. The difference in total costs and benefits
provides a measure of the impact of the eliminated component, and its economic
viability can be assessed. This method is also not without problems, as the
evaluation of any particular component can change according to what other
components are still included in the overall sub-project. But this problem is
capable of resolution by repeating the elimination of components, and using as
starting point for the evaluation of particular components that combination of
components which gives the highest aggregate rate of return. These problems of
evaluation are particularly relevant in urban transport projects, where the
usual assumption made in an economic evaluation, that there is independence of
components, is not valid.
6.   All evaluations used a similar sequence of activities and used the same
indicators of net benefit of the projects. The sequence was:
i)    define the project and estimate the investment cost
ii)   project future traffic volumes
iii) estimate vehicle speeds and operating costs with and without the
project
iv)   determine the flow of net project costs for the evaluation period
v)    calculate the values of the economic indicators
7.   The economic indicators calculated were Benefit/Cost ratio (B/C Ratio),
Net Present Value (NPV) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR). In all the
evaluations, economic costs rather than market prices were used. The costs
were derived by eliminating the taxation component, principally fuel taxes and
value added tax, from market prices. Although there are other differences
between the two concepts, such as in labor costs and the prices of imported
goods, where market prices do not necessarily represent economic costs, the
derivation of the appropriate shadow prices is controversial and makes little
difference to the results of the economic evaluation. In the following review
of the results, only the MERR results are analyzed. The other indicators
invariably indicated the same results and conclusions.
8.   Many of the sub-project components analyzed for the three first cities
showed high values for the ERR, many in excess of 75% and some in excess of
500%. The standard method of calculating ERR values involves an assumption
that all benefits can be reinvested to obtain a rate of return equal to the
ERR value. This assumption is reasonable at normal levels of ERR but is
unrealistic for very high values, where the probability of being able to
reinvest at the ERR rate is very low. A modified method of determining the
value (MERR) requires the more reasonable assumption that benefits are
reinvested at the standard discount rate, in Bank evaluations 12%. All the
values presented in this Annex are based on this modified HERR method. For use
in those cases where the standard method was used, a conversion to the
modified method has been made, making use of knowledge of the project costs
and rate of growth of benefits to simulate the future stream of net revenues.



- 75 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 8
Sub-prolect component costs
9.   Project costs were estimated using very preliminary designs, and
estimates of quantities of materials and labor, to which standard unit costs
were applied to obtain total costs. Experience has shown that cost estimates
made in this way grossly underestimate the final project costs, even when
allowance is made for inflation. For this reason, sensitivity tests with
assumed large assumed investment cost increases were made.
Traffic volumes
10. The next stage is to make an estimate of future volumes of traffic. The
simplest predictions assume that traffic will continue to grow at some
predetermined rate, usually independent of any changes in the road network or
in vehicle travel speeds or operating cost. Other projection methods take
implicit or explicit account of these variables. Many of these methods result
in either different projections of total traffic, or assignments of a fixed
volume of traffic to different routes from their origin to their destination,
depending on whether or not a project is implemented.
11. If different total volumes of traffic are projected in the two
situations being compared in the economic evaluation, that evaluation must
take explicit account of the benefits of the generated traffic. If the
projections involve different assignments of a given volume of traffic to
routes through the network, the economic evaluation must take explicit account
of the change in total vehicle operating costs.
12. Although these might seem elementary principles to be applied in the
economic evaluation of a road project, they were overlooked in various of the
preliminary evaluations made in the three sub-projects. In at least one case,
they were deliberately overlooked in an attempt at simplification of the
methodology, but when the results of the simplified evaluations were compared
with those in which both principles were applied, significantly different
results, leading to different conclusions, were obtained.
Vehicle speeds and operating cost savings
13. The principal benefits which could be evaluated for each of the sub-
projects were the reduction in vehicle operating costs and reductions in the
long term cost of road maintenance and reconstruction. Other benefits which
were not evaluated (although some of them were measured) include the value of
time savings to vehicle occupants other than paid drivers, environmental
benefits in terms of reduced vehicle gas emissions, the benefits in terms of
improved environment for pedestrians at road crossings and in town centers,
and the contribution to economic growth through lower transport costs and a
workforce with a more regular arrival time at their place of employment.



- 76 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 8
14. Vehicle operating cost savings formed more than 90% of the evaluated
benefits of the sub-project components in each of the cities. The estimation
of vehicle operating costs was made by the application of equations or tables
of unit operating costs for different vehicle types at different average
speeds (see Table A7.1 and Fig A7.1). The vehicle speeds were estimated, for
the situations with and without the sub-project components, using standard
equations which relate vehicle speeds to the ratio of traffic volume to road
capacity. Estimates of future road traffic volumes were usually obtained by
application of standard growth rates to estimates of current traffic volumes
derived from various types of survey and road capacities were estimated using
standard values such as those from the Highway Capacity Manual.
15. The estimates of current road traffic volume were generally made for the
average daily peak hour, a notoriously difficult concept to define. In the
later evaluations made for the components of the sub-project in Toluca and
Leon, estimates were made of the frequency of occurrence (in terms of hours pr
year) of various values of this ratio expressed as proportions of the traffic
in the exceeded on the busiest 7.5% of hours of the year. Estimates of the
shape of the frequency distribution were based on all day vehicle counts for
periods of at least three months at key sites in each city.
16. The estimates of unit operating costs were originally based on the forms
of equation used in the HDM, urban traffic version, but in the latest
evaluations for all three cities, use was made of a Mexican version of a more
precise method, which takes into account the number of times a vehicle must
accelerate from stop and of the operating costs of stationary vehicles,
particularly important for buses. This national version of vehicle operating
costs provides data for five vehicle types - private cars, combis, micros,
buses and medium trucks, at operating speeds from 5 km/hr to 50 km/hr, for
three types of road surface and three types of terrain. A summary of the costs
for each vehicle type at different speeds on level paved roads in good
condition is shown in Table 5.1.
17. A disadvantage of all currently available vehicle operating cost
equations is in their treatment of the depreciation costs of private cars.
Only a small part of this depreciation is related to vehicle use, and even
that part is related to distance travelled rather than to time in use. Only if
it is to be argued that increased speeds will result in higher use per vehicle
could it be reasonably argued that this part of depreciation could be
influenced by a typical road improvement project. In most cases, there is no
change in the annual depreciation of private cars as a result of the
implementation of such projects. When included in economic evaluations, as in
those undertaken for this project, benefits of reduced depreciation for
private cars typically account for about 15% of the benefits of this vehicle
type, so inclusion of full depreciation benefits results in an overestimate of
benefits of less than this percentage.
18. Depreciation allowances for commercial vehicles are a different matter.
It is quite possible that increased average speeds will result in higher
utilization and increased depreciation, and so an apparent disbenefit of the



- 77 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 8
project - unless the increased utilization results in fewer vehicles being
purchased. In this case, there will be two opposing effects - more
depreciation per vehicle but fewer vehicles to depreciate. Whether or not
there would be a depreciation benefit attributable to the project will depend
very much on operators response to the road improvement. Depreciation benefits
for commercial vehicles can account for 30% of the benefits of road
improvement schemes attributable to commercial vehicles. Including these cost
savings at their full value is less likely to result in an overestimate of
benefits than inclusion of the equivalent benefits for private cars.
19.   For use in the final evaluations described in this Annex, the cost
equations were updated to end January 1992 prices, to take account of a fuel
price increase of 30% at the end of 1991.
Volume capacit, ratios and vehicle speeds
20. The use of this method to estimate vehicle speeds requires a number of
assumptions to be made about road capacity and the way in which average speed
reduces as traffic volume increases. The starting point for the application of
the ratio is the estimated free flow speed, that speed at which the first
vehicle on the road would travel in the absence of any others. Most
mathematical relationships between these variables indicate free flow speeds
of the order of those shown in the following Table, with very little if any
speed change for a volume to capacity ratio of less than 0.5, then an almost
proportional reduction of speed as the ratio approaches a value of 1.0, at
which point the speed usually reduces to less than 10 km/hr. Although speeds
lower this limit are observed, the vehicle operating cost equations become
unreliable at lower speeds, so it is usually assumed that the costs are
unchanged at lower speeds.
21. Not all project benefits derive from increasing the travelling speed of
vehicles. Particularly in urban areas, much of the benefit comes from
reduction in junction delays. The cost of vehicles waiting at junctions can be
assessed in two ways. The time involved in waiting can be added to the time
taken in travelling on the next link of the network, and this combined time
used to estimate the average speed which is then used in the estimate of
vehicle operating costs. The more direct way is to make a separate estimate of
the cost of operating a vehicle which is stationary. The first method was used
in most of the evaluations, but the second more accurate method was used in a
few of the later estimates of component benefits.
22. Table 5.1 shows the assumed average vehicle speed for various volume
capacity levels on different types of road. These are the values which were
applied in the revised evaluations of the sub-components of Leon and Toluca.
They are derived from the use of a mathematical formula relating speed to the
volume/capacity ratio at the given level of traffic and the assumed free flow
vehicle speed. The evaluation of components in the Ciudad Juarez sub-project
did not use this method of speed estimation. Instead a current average network
speed was derived from moving vehicle surveys. Future vehicle speeds were



- 78 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 8
assumed to be equal to these speeds if no improvement was projected, or the
free flow speed if some measure was included in the sub-project to increase
road capacity. This method was clearly unsatisfactory and will not be used
again.
B.    Evaluation results
23. The components of the sub-projects for each of the three cities whose
sub-project has so far been evaluated have been categorized into six groups.
These are:
a.   Traffic management
b.   Corridor improvements
c.   Access to residential zones
d.   Public transport
e.   Road maintenance, and
f.   Institutional development.
24. Only components in the first three and in one case, the fifth category,
have been subjected to economic evaluation. The average MERR's for each type
of project in each of the three cities are shown in Table 5.2 (iv). The
average MERR for all projects was 50%, with a range from 14% (access to
residential zones in Ciudad Juarez) to 78% (road maintenance in Toledo).
Tables 5.2 (i) through 5.2 (iii) show the results of the sensitivity tests for
each category of sub-project component for Leon, Ciudad Juarez and Toluca
respectively. The lowest MERR values were obtained for the access to
residential zone components for Ciudad Juarez, with an MERR value of 9% on the
most pessimistic set of assumptions. However, the method used in the
evaluation for Ciudad Juarez to assign sub-project benefits to components and
categories of component was unreliable (see para 4 of this Annex). The overall
average MERR for the whole proposed Project on the most pessimistic
assumptions was 30%.
Results by category of component
25. The highest MERR's, with an average of more than 78%, were obtained for
the road maintenance category in Toluca, closely followed by the traffic
management category in the same city. One reason for the high benefits for
these categories is that the traffic volumes in Toluca are very high all day
long and on all days of the week. The highest average daily traffic occurs on
Sunday as does the busiest hour of the week. The combination of high traffic
levels during the working week combined with high volumes at the weekend
provides a large source of potential benefits
26. The categories of sub-project component with the highest average MERR's
are road maintenance and traffic management, with values of 78% and 76%
respectively. Even on the most pessimistic assumptions tested, both categories
had MERR values in excess of 60%. These categories typically have relatively



- 79 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 8
low capital costs and high immediate benefits to existing traffic. The next
highest average MERR value is attributable to those projects which improve the
road access to residential zones, having a value of 65%. The MERR value for
the most pessimistic assumptions only falls to 57Z. These projects mostly
involve the paving and realignment of roads to suburbs with low income
populations and which are distant from the city centers. Characteristics which
lead toward lower MERR values are the higher cost per km of road and the lower
traffic volumes than for the previous categories. These are partly compensated
by the higher benefits per vehicle resulting from an improved road service
rather than for reduced congestion. The per vehicle benefits are initially
very high and increase only slowly over time, whereas congestion benefits
start off low but increase more than proportionally with the increase in
traffic over time. The principal measured benefit of these projects is the
reduced operating cost of buses, which without the project will have to
continue to use earth or gravel roads.
27. The category of sub-project component with the lowest average MERR value
is that of corridor improvements, with an average of 23%, reducing to 16% on
the most pessimistic assumptions. The relatively low MERR values are
attributable to the high capital cost of these projects and the need to invest
in new capacity in larger discrete units than for traffic management projects.
The benefits of these projects are similar to those of traffic management
projects, in that they are related to the level of road congestion and
therefore start low in the early years of the project and increase faster than
the traffic growth rate.
Results by City - Leon
28. The economic evaluation for Leon covered sub-project components which
accounted for 96% of the total sub-project cost and showed an average MERR of
52% (see Table 5.2 (i). The highest average MERR was for the road maintenance
components (66%), followed by traffic management (56%), access to residential
zones (41%) and corridor improvements (35%). The corridor components had a
wide range of HERR values, with a highest value of 85% and a lowest of 15%.
With the exception of this last project, all the HERR's remained above the
critical value of 12% even on the most pessimistic sensitivity test. This one
component had an MERR value of 10% on this test.
Results by City - Ciudad Juarez
29. The economic evaluation of sub-project components for Ciudad Juarez must
be treated with some caution because of the problem described in paragraph 4
above. The economic evaluation included sub-project components representing
over 70% of the total sub-project cost and indicated an average MERR of 33%
(see Table 5.2 (ii). The method of projecting traffic volumes and measuring
traffic benefits meant that only two categories of sub-project component could
be evaluated, corridor improvements and paving of access roads to residential
zones. The former type of project had an average MERR of 41% while the latter



- 80 -
Annex 5
Page 8 of 8
had an average MERR of 14%. A separate evaluation of the individual corridor
improvements was made, but the results are unreliable because of a potential
misallocation of benefits between projects (see paragraph 4 above). No
separate evaluation was made of the paving of access routes. The sensitivity
tests indicated that in the worst situation considered the average MERR of the
corridor projects reduced to 31% while that of the paving the access routes
reduced to 9%.
Results by City - Toluca
30. The economic evaluation of sub-project components for Toluca showed the
highest overall MERR with an average of more than 59% (see Table 5.2 (iii)).
This result was derived from evaluations of sub-project components which
accounted for 73Z of total sub-project costs. The results obtained for the
road maintenance and traffic management components of the sub-project were the
highest of any category for the three cities, each at more than 75%. Even the
category of access to residential zones had a high MERR value of more than
65%, while that for corridor improvements was 24%, with a variation from 17%
to more than 35%.



- 81 -
Annex 5
Table 5.1
MEXICO
HEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROGRAM
VARrATION OF VEHICLE OPERATINC COST WITH VEHICLE  SPEED
Spood                     Car            Cosbi            Micro               Bus              Truck
tm/hr                    Max$/           M4x$I            16ex$/            MaSX/             MHxS/
vohk im         vah km           vah it             voh ka            veh km
10                        909             961              1139              1959              2109
20                        533             572               680              1187              1245
30                        409             444               529               936               966
40                        347             382               456               819               828
50                        311             344               413               751               757
60                        289             320               387               714               716
70                        272             307               372               694               698
Speed Ratio           Cost ratio      Cost ratio        Cost Ratio        Cost Ratio        Cost ratio
20110 km ir              58.6S           59.5S            59.72              60.6S             59.02
30110 to hr              45.0S           46.22             46.41             47.8             45.8
40/10 km hr              38.2K           39.82             40.0S             41.8S             39.32
50/10 km hr              34.2Z           35.8S             36.32             3S.3S             35.9S
60/10 km hr              31.8S           33.3S             34.0S             36.4Z             33.92
70/10 km hr              29.91           31.9S             32.7              35.4Z             33.12
Table 5.1
VARIATION OF VOC WtTH SPEED
90
80 
70-
50             .
40 -
S
30 
20 
10I
10                       0         I50                             7I0
20                   40                    60
Speed in km/hr
C   Car     4   Cormbi
0   Mtcro     A   Cuw      x   Truck



- 82 -
Annex 5
Table 5.2 U.)
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URAN T SPORT PROGRAM
ECONGC EVALU&TION OF THE CMPOETS OF T                           SUBPROJECT FOR LAON
ModifLed econoclc Rate of Return (MMl)
Total
Category                        Coust      Baic          +2SS Coot         -252 Cost         +251 C
Traffic monag m_  t             12.96             86S               69S             55               57Z
Corridor tproave_nts             6.00             421               341             271               271
Access to residential soans   4.27                48S               391             29S               321
Public Transport                 0.74  not evaluated   not evaluated  not evaluated   not evaluated
Road Malateac                    6.99            1211               9S1             732               801
Inatitutional strcngthbning   0 45  not evaluated   not evaluated  not evaluated   not evaluated
Sub total                       31.41             771               611             482               511
L-ad  nt Property purchaeb       4.12
Ptysical continency              4.11
Price contingency                3.63
TOTAL                           43.27



- 83 -
Table 5.2 (i4)
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PR
ECONOMIC zVm UATIOw OF THE ComONENTS OF THE SUBPROJECT FOR CIUA   JUAREZ
Modified  conomic lat  of Return (MMll)
Total
Category                       Coust        asic         +252 Cost        -252 Coat          +252 C
Traffic management              5 41  not *valuatod   not evaluated   not evaluated  not evaluated
Corridor Improv   nts          15.72              512              432              401              34S
Acces to residential zoneD   6.00                 142              122               IIS              92
Public Transport                0 30  not evaluated   not evaluated   not evaluated  not evaluated
Road Mainton nea                3.61  not evaluated   not evaluated   not evaluated                  O0
Inn titutionaLl strengthening   0.*93  not evaluated   not evaluated   not evaluated  not evaluated
Sub total                      31.97              402              342              322              272
Land and Property purchase    2.17
Physical contingency            6.42
Price contingency               4.31
TOTAL                          44.87



- 84 -
Annexc S
Table 5.2 (iii)
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROGRA
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE  COMPONENTS OF TE SUBPROJECT FOR TOLUC
Modified Economic Rate of Return (MEMl)
Total
Category                        Coust      Basic         +252 Cost        -252 Cost         +25Z C
Traffic manag ement             9.58              761              671             641               602
Corridor improv emts            8.89              242              202              191              16S
Access to residentiAl zones   4.00                652              641              622              561
Public Transport                0.38  not evaluated   not evaluatod  not evaluated   not evaluated
Road Maintenanco                7.27              781              732              66S              611
Institutional strengthening   0.*68  not evaluated   not evaluated  not evaluated   not evaluated
Sub total                      30.80              591              541              51S              471
Land and Property purchase    6.54
Physical contingency            4.17
Price contingency               3.42
TOTAL                          44.93



- 85 -
Table 5.2 (iv)
MZICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT  RO
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE COONENTS OF                       THREE CITIES
Modified Zcoo-4c Rate of Return (MM)
Total
Category                       CUst         Leon        Cludad Juares        Toluca          Average
Traffic .anag _m  t             27.95              561   not evaluated                762             635
Corridor Liprow_ments           30.61              35S               411              242             35S
Access to resldential zones   14.27                412               142              65S             362
Public Transport                 1.42   not evaluated   not evaluated   not evaluated  not evaluateod
Road Maintes nce                17.87              66S   not evaluated                78 .            723
Institutional strengthening   2.06   not evaluated   not evaluated  not evaluated  not eawluated
Sub total                      94.18               521               332              592             502
Land and Property purchase    12.83
Physical contingeucy            14.70
Price contingancy               11.36
TOTAL                          133.07



- 86 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 10
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Sub-Project Preparation and Execution
1.    This Annex provides a description of the agreed Sub-project preparation
and implementation process and the division of responsibilities between
SEDESOL, BANOBRAS and SHCP.
Overall Organization and Scope
2.    The "Programa De Vialidad y Transporte Urbano Para Ciudades Medias"
(PVT) and the proposed Bank Project will be jointly managed by SEDESOL
(Direccion General de Infrastructure y Equipamiento) and BANOBRAS (Gerente
Proyectos, Vialidad y Transporte). SEDESOL's primary responsibilities will be
technical (transport planning, urban transport policy issues, public transport
regulatory systems, traffic management and maintenance) and economic
(evaluation of the investment programs). The role of BANOBRAS will be to
manage the Bank loan and municipal and state sub-loans (determination of
financial viability of the municipalities and states, obtain the necessary
guarantees, supervise the assessment of compliance with loan conditions and
covenants and negotiate with the Bank and with the municipalities and states).
In addition, while the participating municipalities and states will be
responsible for their own procurement activities. SEDESOL will be responsible
for supervising the technical aspects and BANOBRAS for the supervising the
financial aspects of procurement. BANOBRAS will verify the use of the Bank's
procurement guidelines and ensure that the standard bidding documents agreed
between the Mexican authorities and the Bank were followed. A project
coordinating group has already been formed and held its first meetings; the
objective of the group is to coordinate the actions of the two implementing
agencies and to resolve any inter-institutional problems before they have a
chance to prejudice the progress of the proposed project.
Project and Sub-project Processes
3.    The preparation and implementation of the municipal and state sub-
projects will be related to following parts of the proposed project: Parts A2
and A3 - Promotion of the PVT by BANOBRAS and SEDESOL, Part B1 - preparation
of Integral Transport Plans (ITPs), Part B2 - Implementation of immediate
actions, and Part B3 - Implementation of the ITPs. These are outlined in
Table 1 and described in the following paragraphs.



- 87 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 10
TABLE 1 - OUTLINE OF THE PROJECT PROCESS
Part A2
Promotion             BANOBRAS, with help      Describe to cities the
from SEDESOL             program, objectives, and
eligibility criteria
Part Bl
Confirmation          BANOBRAS                 Participating municipality
and/or state will confirm
interest in participation and
agreement to the general
conditions
Prequalification      SEDESOL                  Prequalification of
consultants for ITP.
Part BI sub-loan      BANOBRAS/SEDESOL         A sub-loan to finance the ITP
for the ITP                                    will be prepared, negotiated
and signed with municipality
and/or state
Selection of          Preparation of bid       Municipality or state selects
Consultants           documents by             consultants for ITP
municipality or
state; SEDESOL for
technical review and
BANOBRAS for
procedural review
ITP                   Consultants to carry    1. Diagnosis Report
out for Municipality    2. Immediate Actions Plan
or state. SEDESOL and   3. Action Plan
BANOBRAS to supervise   4. Investment Plan
and appraise
Part B2
Second sub-loan -    Municipality and/or       A sub-loan to finance the
Immediate Actions    state with BANOBRAS       immediate actions will be
supervision              prepared, negotiated and
signed with municipality
and/or state



- 88 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 10
Execution of         Municipality or state   1. Bid document preparation
immediate actions    to execute; SEDESOL      2. Bidding and evaluation
and BANOBRAS to         3. Contracting and execution
supervise.              4. Supervision
Part B3
Preparation of       SEDESOL and BANOBRAS    Verification of compliance
third sub-loan                                with on-lending conditions
Third sub-loan       Municipality or state   Finalization of sub-loan
negotiations and     with BANOBRAS            conditions and legal
approval             supervision              documents
Third sub- loan      Municipality with        Confirmation that all sub-
effectiveness        supervision by           loan conditions have been
SEDESOL for technical   complied with by municipality
aspects and BANOBRAS    and state
for financial aspects
Bidding for works    Municipality or          Confirmation that all
and goods            state; SEDESOL for       components are prepared in
technical review and    accordance with sub project
BANOBRAS for            loan agreement conditions
procedural review
Implementation of    Municipality or state   Confirmation that all sub-
works and             for on-site super-      loan  components are
procurement of       vision; SEDESOL for      implemented in accordance
goods                technical supervision   with legal agreements
and BANOBRAS for
procedural super-
vision
Monitoring and Ex-   Municipality and         Confirmation that sub project
post Evaluation      state for actions;       schedule and covenants are
SEDESOL for             being met, and that
performance             components meet objectives
monitoring (ex post);
BANOBRAS for
financial monitoring
Part A2 -Promotion
4.    The program will be initiated by a BANOBRAS with support from SEDESOL
and SHCP and include identification and promotion missions to the potential
participating municipalities and states (those listed in Annex 1, Table 1).
The aim will be to describe the program and its objectives. Targets of the
promotion process, who will include consultants and contractors as well as
municipal and state representatives, will be notified of the phased approach,
the financial terms of sub-loans, the conditions for participation and the



- 89 -                                  ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 10
"first come first served" approach for participation in the Bank loan.
Municipalities and states will receive the following documentation:
(a)   the program manual of the PVT ("Programa De Vialidad y Transporte
Urbano Para Ciudades Medias");
(b)   sample sub-loan agreements, conditions and other legal
requirements;
(c)   procurement guidelines for works, goods and hiring of consultants,
and an explanation of the required "no-objection" procedure
(submission of TOR, reports, documents, the level of engineering
detail required for works to be considered eligible for financing,
bid documents, technical specifications etc);
(d)   a description of the types of, and conditions applying to,
immediate actions eligible for sub-loan financing;
(e)   the terms of reference for studies to produce an ITP (Including an
outline of an appraisal report); and
(f)   model final designs and bidding documents.
5.    During the identification/promotion phase SEDESOL will form a view on
the main transport problems in the medium cities, and collect data and
information to enable the final TOR for the Integral Studies in each
participating city to be prepared to reflect particular city conditions.
BANOBRAS will verify the municipal and state financial eligibility and the
maximum value of sub-loans they will be capable of absorbing.
Part Bi - Confirmation of participation
6.     Each candidate municipality and state, after analyzing the documents
received, the on-lending conditions and taking account of its own transport
needs, will confirm its interest in participating in the program and its
understanding and acceptance of the conditions of participation as described
in the PVT.
Part Bl Sub-loan negotiation:
7.    A sub-loan will be made from BANOBRAS to the participating municipality
or state to finance the preparation of the ITP. The participating
municipality will have to satisfy only the first type of eligibility criteria
(relating to size and economic importance) and agree to satisfy the others
before implementation of the recommendations of the ITP. BANOBRAS will
prepare the legal documents, negotiate the sub-loan with the municipality and
state and then present the sub-loan to its Board.
Part B1 - Selection of consultants
8.    It is expected that the several national and international consultants
will be included on the short list for selection for most of the ITPs. The
compilation of the short lists will be the responsibility of the respective



-90-                               ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 10
municipalities or states, with guidance from SEDESOL. To avoid long and
costly repetitions of the prequalification process, it is planned that SEDESOL
will prepare a list of prequalified consultants, based on proposals in
response to the issuing of generic terms of reference. The municipalities
will be encouraged to compile their short list from these prequalified
consultants. Although they will be free to include any others in their short
list, these additional consultants will have to satisfy the same
prequalification criteria as those already prequalified, with a consequent
delay in the selection process.
9.     Consultants will be selected by the participating municipality or
state, with the supervision of SEDESOL in respect of:
(a)         the preparation of specific terms of reference by the
municipality or state, based on the generic terms of
reference already available
(b)         approval of short lists of consultants, preferably from
those already prequalified by SEDESOL.
SEDESOL, together with BANOBRAS will be responsible for supervising:
(c)         the evaluation of proposals and selection of consultants, to
ensure that procurement guide-lines, established for the
Project are followed, with SEDESOL covering the technical
and BANOBRAS the procedural aspects.
Part BI - ITP: Diagnostic Study and Immediate Action Plan
10.   The consultants will prepare a Diagnostic Report, identifying the major
issues to be addressed in the Action and Investment Plans and identify
immediate actions, if any, which will be in risk of significant cost increases
or benefit losses if subjected to further delay in implementation. The
immediate actions could comprise limited infrastructure improvements, short
term improvements to assist bus operations and traffic circulation schemes. A
complete list of the types of investment acceptable as immediate actions are
given in Annex 1. The proposals will be reviewed by the municipality and
SEDESOL and comments (to ensure actions comply with the conditions and
direction for immediate action proposals) given to the consultants prior to
preparation of the final designs and bidding documents, the environmental
assessment and the economic evaluation and presentation of their final report
on the immediate actions.  Completion of this report for immediate actions,
including approval by the municipality or state, will be within two months of
initiating the ITP studies.
11.   SEDESOL will evaluate the report on immediate actions from technical,
economic, environmental and financial feasibility points of view, and if
appropriate, authorize the municipality or state to proceed with their
implementation.



- 91 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 10
Part B2 Implementation of Immediate Action Plan
12.   Final designs and bid documents for the immediate investments will be
prepared by the consultants appointed to undertake the Integral Study. The
bid package should be approved by SEDESOL and BANOBRAS. Bidding for the
execution of the immediate actions will take place in accordance with SEDESOL
norms and bid evaluations and awards of contracts will be approved by BANOBRAS
and SEDESOL. Municipalities or states will be responsible for supervision of
the civil works included in the immediate actions, but SEDESOL will oversee
the implementation by using its own supervising consultants.
13.   Once the bid documents for investments in civil works and/or equipment
purchases were agreed, the municipality or state will be eligible for a second
sub-loan. The procedures for negotiating this sub-loan will be similar to (b)
and (c) and (d) for the first sub-loan (para 7), but will relate to the
immediate actions instead of the studies to produce the ITP. The amount of
the second sub-loan will not exceed US$ 5 million equivalent.
Part Bl ITP: Action Plan and Investment Plan
14.   The consultants will complete studies for the ITP, reviewing the
administrative structure of the municipalities and states responsible for
regulating urban transport, current and projected environmental conditions
related to transport (as specified in the terms of reference), the operational
regulations controlling urban transport (including tariff policy), the
environmental regulations controlling vehicle emissions, the financial
viability of public transport operators, and defining a short term investment
program proposed for sub project loan financing and including detailed design
of the works proposed for first year of implementation. They will prepare an
Investment Plan which will be based on a systematic analysis of the city's
transport needs and an Action Plan which will be based on an assessment of the
need to strengthen institutions, planning procedures and the regulation of
transport operations. The consultants will support the investment proposals
with a Financing Plan, which will include an assessment of the impact of the
Investment and Action Plans on the municipality's and state's finances,
demonstrating that sufficient funding will be available for the counterpart
funding and to service any loans which will be proposed.
15.   The consultants will be responsible for the completion of the studies
and for preparing the ITP in accordance with the agreed TOR's. It will be a
function of SEDESOL to ensure that the Study was conducted in accordance with
the objectives of the program. This will involve SEDESOL in the following
actions:
(a)   assisting in clarifying issues, definition of problems, and
proposing alternative solutions;
(b)   advising on appropriate methodologies for all study aspects but
particularly evaluation (technical, economic, financial, and
environmental) of alternative solutions;



- 92 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 10
(c)   assisting the municipalities in the supervision of their
consultants; and
(d)   coordinating the different federal, state and municipal agencies
involved in the sub-project;
16.    SEDESOL will review the draft ITP, to verify that the proposals were in
accordance with the objectives of the Program and that the economic, financial
and environmental justifications were adequate to justify proceeding to the
stage of preparing preliminary designs and the final design of components
included in the proposed actions for the first year of implementation.
Following the SEDESOL review of the Draft ITP, preliminary engineering designs
will be completed for each component and costs and economic and environmental
evaluations will be updated by the consultants.
17.    The final version of the ITP will be prepared by consultants in a
format acceptable to SEDESOL, BANOBRAS, and the Bank. The proposed Investment
Plan and Action Plan components will be defined, together with their economic,
financial and environmental and operational justification, and the
institutional, administrative, and financial arrangements for their
implementation. SEDESOL will review and coordinate a review of the components
of the ITP. BANOBRAS will assist in all financial issues and loan related
issues. SEDESOL will prepare an Appraisal Report, with full explanatory
annexes, in a format acceptable to the Bank, and arrange for the presentation
of the ITP to all agencies which will be involved in its approval and
implementation. Acceptable to the Bank will be interpreted as complying with
the Terms of Reference, providing an implementable Investment Plan which was
within the financial capability of the municipality and/or state to manage,
and including an Action Plan which provided feasible solutions to the
institutional problems identified in the Diagnostic Report of the ITP.
18.    It will be a condition of the first sub-loan that the final design of
proposed civil works, the technical specification of equipment to be purchased
and the TOR's of all proposed further studies, be included in the terms of
reference for the studies to produce the ITP, and a condition of negotiating a
third sub-loan that at least 20% of the final designs, specifications and bid
documents had received Bank approval. In those cases where the consultants
selected for the ITP studies will be different to those undertaking the final
designs and product specifications, SEDESOL will assist the process by:
(a)   assisting cities to prepare terms of reference for the final
engineering consultants;
(b)   assisting to prepare short lists of consultants; and
(c)   ensuring, through supervision, that all SEDESOL norms and design
guidelines for urban works and technical specifications are
followed (including bid documents for works and goods);



- 93 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 10
Part B3 - Implementation of the ITP
19.   Following successful completion of the ITP and approval of the
SEDESOL/BANOBRAS appraisal by the Bank, each participating municipality or
state will then be reviewed for its eligibility for a third sub-loan, financed
in part by federal grants and loans in accordance with program guidelines to
implement the recommendations of the approved ITP. The review will be made by
SEDESOL in respect to the technical conditions (para 2.31 (a), (b), (e), (f),
(g) and (h) and by BANOBRAS in respect to the financial conditions (para 2.28
(c) and (d) and (i)) for on-lending. Once compliance with these conditions
hade been verified, the implementation Stage of the sub-project will start.
This will include negotiation of the third sub-loan and then undertaking the
investments include in the Investment Plan and enacting all the institutional
changes included in the Action Plan.
20.   The preparation of the third sub-loan will include the following
activities:
(a)   SEDESOL will arrange for a formal meeting of all involved parties
and agree on the contents of the sub-project;
(b)   BANOBRAS will negotiate and finalize the sub-loan conditions and
will prepare a draft sub-loan agreement, a final municipal and
state appraisal report, specify lending terms and conditions and
prepare all other legal documents as necessary including state
guarantees (and proceed to secure approval of the state congress,
when required);
(c)   subsequent to finalization and agreement of all legal documents,
BANOBRAS will submit the documents to the Bank for comments and,
following receipt of these comments, will present the sub-loan to
BANOBRAS Board of Directors for approval. Following this
procedure, the sub-loan will be formally submitted to the Bank for
approval.
Part B3: Bidding of works and goods
21.   Once the sub-loan arrangements had been completed and the relevant
documents approved and signed, SEDESOL and BANOBRAS will review the bid
documents and evaluations for the first year projects, and issue a "no
objection" notification as appropriate to the municipality or state. The
third sub-loan will include finance for the preparation of final designs and
bidding documents for the components of the Investment Plan not covered by
funding under the first sub-loan. Preparation of these designs and documents
will precede the bidding of these works and of equipment for which the
technical specifications had been prepared with finance from the first sub-
loan. All further studies, planning and training activities included in the
Action Plan will also be bid in this Phase of the sub-project.



94-                                 ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 10
Part B3: Supervision
22.    Supervision of all physical works will be carried out throughout the
implementation phase and will include:
(a)   periodic re-evaluation of Project components, including the
institutional strengthening and training components, to determine
impact on component viability of changes in unit costs and/or
projected traffic volumes or user costs from those established at
Project Evaluation (SEDESOL, with BANOBRAS for financial aspects);
(b)   review and approval of changes in Project components requested by
the municipality or state(SEDESOL);
(c)   review and approval of consultant terms of reference, final
designs, and proposals (SEDESOL);
(d)   review and approval of procurement arrangements, bidding
documents, procurement awards, and contracts; SEDESOL (technical)
and BANOBRAS (financial);
(e)   review of implementation progress (SEDESOL);
(f)   monitoring compliance with the sub-Loan Agreement; SEDESOL
(physical) and BANOBRAS (financial);
(g)   preparation of quarterly reports and other documentation relative
to sub-project progress (SEDESOL, and BANOBRAS for financial
reports); and
(h)   coordination among and liaison with all agencies involved in the
program (SEDESOL).
Part B3: Ex-Post evaluation
23.    An ex-post evaluation of each sub-project will be prepared by SEDESOL.
making use of the information gained during Parts Bl, B2 and B3 of the sub-
project as well as its own and BANOBRAS' monitoring reports (Annex 7). The
evaluation reports will be submitted to the Bank as part of the Project
Completion Report, but before then SEDESOL should disseminate the lessons
learned and make use of them in the preparation and development of subsequent
sub-projects.
The Role of the Bank in the Process
24.   The Bank will review relevant stages of: (a) all short lists of
consultants and contractors; (b) all terms of reference and consultant
selections; and (c) selective bid documents, and bid evaluations. The
selection will include all International Competitive Bidding contracts and the
first Local Competitive Bidding Contract of each sub-loan. All other
procurement documentation will be subject to selective ex-post review by the



- 95 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 10
Bank. BANOBRAS will retain documentation for these contracts for periodic
supervision by Bank staff. A "no-objection" letter from the Bank will be
required before the award of contracts to consultants, contractors and
suppliers of goods. This applies to all stages and phases of the Project.
The Bank will review and comment on all sub-loan agreements.
25.   The Bank will review the immediate action proposals and will appraise
each new sub-project based on the SEDESOL appraisal report. Thus, the Bank
will receive the appraisal of the Diagnostic Report and the final ITP before
the approval of the third and principal sub-loan by BANOBRAS.
26.   During the course of Part B3 of the proposed project, the Bank will
supervise on a sample basis the work and development of the institutional
components. The Bank, together with SEDESOL and BANOBRAS will be responsible
for reviewing the reports prepared for the annual and mid-term reviews, the
agendas for which are detailed in para 2.57.



- 96 -                              Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.   Although monitoring and evaluation are considered as linked activities,
they have rather different objectives. Monitoring is designed to review
progress on a project as it is being executed, in an attempt to avoid delays
or cost overruns, and to determine whether existing standards and norms of
performance are being achieved. Evaluation is designed to assess whether, once
the project is completed, it achieved its declared objectives.
2.   Monitoring involves three separate actions, related to: (a) Standards
monitoring: current operational performance and its comparison with national
and international standards and norms; (b) Progress monitoring: progress on
the achievement of institutional, physical and operational targets; and, (c)
Financial monitoring: measurement of progress on disbursements. For the Part
A activities of the Project, each agency will be responsible for monitoring
and evaluation its own activities. For Part B activities, responsibility will
be shared between SEDESOL and BANOBRAS.
3.   Standards monitoring is only relevant to Part B activities.  Standards
and Progress monitoring in respect of Part B sub-project activities will be
the responsibility of SEDESOL, while financial monitoring, for each sub-
project and of Part B as a whole, it will be that of BANOBRAS. Similarly,
Standards evaluation will be the responsibility of SEDESOL, while financial
evaluation will be the responsibility of BANOBRAS.
Progress Monitoring and Evaluation of the National component (Part A)
4.   In respect to its own strengthening program (Part Al), SEDESOL will be
responsible for monitoring progress of its own technical consultants.
Although the terms of reference for this TA were detailed in respect to the
qualities required of the consultants, they were open in respect to the
specific activities they will undertake. The first action of the consultants
once appointed will be to develop, together with SEDESOL, a detailed work
program, with specific dates for the production of specific manuals, analyses
and reports.   Compliance with this program will account for about half of the
consultants time. The remainder will be spent helping SEDESOL with the
preparation of ITPs for the participating municipalities. SEDESOL will develop
a monitoring schedule of reports and manuals for its consultants and will use
this as its basic monitoring document.
5.   Monitoring of BANOBRAS' technical assistance (Part A2) will be more
subjective, as there are even fewer specific outputs required. For the first
six months of the project, most of the time of the consultants will be used in
reviewing the financial status of potential participating municipalities and
states. Once the activities related to Part B2 (Immediate Action Plans) and B3
(c) (Implementation of the ITPs) are under way, the responsibilities will



- 97 -                                Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
change and a detailed monitoring exercise will be implemented to keep track of
the progress of each contract in each sub-loan.
6.   The National Training Program will be monitored by SEDESOL. There is at
present no detailed schedule of training activities other than that for the
first Intensive Course. A number of regional courses are currently being
planned, in response to an identified specific need from the municipalities.
The other training courses will similarly be initiated in response to specific
needs as well as to a general overall program.
7.   The studies to implement the ITPs will be financed under Parts A4 and Bi
of the Project. Since the majority of the funding will come from the latter,
ITP monitoring is considered as an activity under that part of the project.
8.   The three Part A activities are such that it will be inappropriate to
evaluate their performance during their execution, other than at the mid point
of their progress. In the case of technical assistance to SEDESOL, there is
provision for a review of the need for further assistance after the first
twelve months of the project. For the training program, a planned. review
after the first of the Intensive Courses will help to inform a decision as to
whether it should be repeated, and if so, what changes should be made. There
is no provision for an interim review of the BANOBRAS strengthening program.
A provisional ex post evaluation should be made as soon as each of the
activities is completed. These evaluations will be the responsibility of the
executing agency. The evaluation criteria will be different for each activity
and depend on its specific objectives, but by their nature they will be
qualitative rather than quantitative
9.   For the SEDESOL strengthening, the evaluation will take account of:
(a) the time needed to implement each sub-project and the extent to
which SEDESOL's own staff were able to assist this work;
(b) the extent to which the consultants were able to undertake a
technology transfer to SEDESOL's staff;
(c) the number of SEDESOL technically qualified staff;
(d) the use made of the equipment purchased with Project funds;
(e) Reports provided by the SEDESOL participants in the Study Tours,
indicating the experience they had gained and how it is expected to
be useful in their future work for SEDESOL;
(f) the usefulness of the promotion campaign in encouraging
municipalities to participate in the Program. This can be measured
to some extent by the rate at which municipalities request to
participate, compared with an expected participation rate of about
four or five municipalities each year and by the proportion of
participants in Part B3 (a) of the project which progressed to Part
B3 (c);



- 98 -                              Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
10. For the BANOBRAS strengthening component, the evaluation will take
account of:
i)   the average time it takes BANOBRAS to process the various stages of
each sub loan to a municipality, including the contracting of civil
works construction,
ii) the utilization of equipment purchased vith Project funds, and
iii) the content and timeliness of submission of quarterly reports to
the Bank
Standards Monitoring and Zvaluation of the local component (Part B)
11. Each participating city will undertake a monitoring and evaluation
program as part of its ITP. The monitoring will be in respect of activities
(a), (b) and (c) described in para.2. In addition, BANOBRAS and SEDESOL will
carry out an overall monitoring and evaluation of all of Part B of the
Project. All sub-loan agreements will include between six and ten of the
following indices, preferably with at least one for each major area of
activity, for use in monitoring the sub-loan. The particular indices for each
agreement will be determined by SEDESOL based on their existing knowledge of
the more important urban transport issues in each city. The values selected
for the particular indices will be based on national and international
standards and vill take account of the particular characteristics of each
city. The monitoring process will comprise a comparison between the achieved
and target values, explanations for any significant deviation and proposals
for how the original target values could be achieved
(a) Public transport operation
Infrastructure -          number and route km of bus priority systems,
observed level of observance (number of private
vehicles observed in public transport lanes, number
of bus priority intersections and traffic signals,
proportion of services terminating in a recognized
passenger terminal, number and proportion of bus
stops in pull-offs from the main highway;
Passenger satisfaction   - bus occupancy factors, proportion of trips which
can be completed without a change of vehicle,
availability of interchange and period fares, on-
time performance of services, availability of route
information, average walking distance to a bus stop,
average age of buses, availability of alternative
qualities of service;
Operators efficiency      - vehicle km per day, proportion of vehicles in
service on an average day, proportion of "dead km",
number of breakdowns in service;



- 99 -                              Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
Financial results         - total revenue and average revenue per vehicle,
total cost and average cost per vehicle, structure
and level of operating and capital costs, fixed and
variable costs per vehicle; and
Regulatory control        - ease of issuing of licenses or permits - number of
permits granted to new operators in each of the last
three years, number of requests for permits granted
and refused in each of the last three years, average
time between request for a license and a response;
(b) Traffic management
Parking                   - number of on and off street parking places in city
and other centers, occupancy level of parking
places, number of infractions observed and ticketed;
Intersections             - number of signalized intersections, proportion of
linked traffic signals;
Vehicle operation         - average speeds on various parts of the network,
typical average journey times; and
Highways                  - demand/capacity ratios at different times of day
and days of week, numbers of and severity of road
accidents and identification of especially dangerous
locations;
(c) Corridor improvements
Infrastructure            - total reservation width, road width, number of
lanes, number of bus-only lanes, number and type of
intersections, surface type and condition; and
Traffic                   - hourly and daily traffic level, AADT,
volume/capacity ratios, junction turning movements,
vehicle speeds at different times of time, average
corridor transit times, average junction queues and
waiting times;
(d) Infrastructure maintenance
Roads                     - road surface roughness measures, frequency of
resurfacing of different parts of the road network;
and
Traffic signals           - number and proportion of traffic lights in
service, average time to repair failed traffic
lights;
(e)  Enviroment



- 100 -                               Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
Air quality               - concentrations of NOx, CO, PMIO, atmospheric lead,
SOx at the assessed worst six city locations;
Vehicle emissions         - number of and proportion of vehicle fleet tested
each year, proportion of failures; and
Noise                     - average noise level, measured in Leq over the
period 8am to 8pm, at specified minimum of twenty
worst locations. Monitored noise emission measured
in dB(A) of a sample of at least 100 vehicles of
each type (passenger car, urban bus and large truck)
Progress and Financial Monitoring of the local component Part B
12. Each sub-project component will have an implementation schedule which
will be monitored. Each proposal for an institutional change will include an
Action Plan, indicating which decisions and actions needed to be taken, by
whom and when. A similar Action Plan for civil works will include the
following activities for each component: (a) final engineering design and
equipment specification; (b) preparation and issue of bid documents; (c)
contract signature; and (d) the start and finish dates for works (or supply of
equipment) as well as quarterly targets. These Action Plans will provide the
basis for the Progress Monitoring. SEDESOL will be responsible for Progress
monitoring and reporting to the Bank on a quarterly basis.
13. BANOBRAS will be responsible for Financial Monitoring for each component
of each sub-project and has included in its own institutional strengthening
program the resources to do this. Since civil works and the supply of
equipment are likely to extend over a number of quarters, the disbursement
schedule for each component of each sub-project will include target
"percentage completed" by quarter or by semester as appropriate. Thus target
expenditures will be used to monitor financial (disbursement) performance on a
quarterly basis;
Ex-post Evaluation
14. The ex-post evaluation activities will be aimed at determining the
effectiveness and efficiency of measures in meeting the standards used in the
Standards Monitoring comparisons. In the event that objectives are not met
and previously anticipated improvements in performance are not achieved, the
data will be used (a) to identify why sub-project components had not been
fully successful; and (b) to improve the specification of future sub-projects.
Furthermore, the ex-post evaluation will be used as a major input to the
Project Completion Report.



- 101 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Financing Sourcoe
1.   The attached Tablo shows the financing sourcoe  for each Part of tho
proposed project and an example of how a typical sub-project vould be
financed. The allocation of financial responsibility among the three sources -
federal grants, sub-project loans and municipalities own sources- is that
included in the Operating Manual of the PVT. During negotiations the federal
government would confirm these arrangements and that they would comit
sufficient federal resources to cover their obligations throughout the
project. Each sub-project agreement would require the participating state and
municipality to commit sufficient funds to cover their share of the sub-
project cost.



wwwwwww0                                            wmwa,wIT0,
0    v--4                    rn.         --u   a -4mmm                                            -     (   u0 '
-in-i-ir ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L -e
Itt                 A.                          5.O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .
x x x                                                                    e r n ii w w    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  . . 
$1                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
0                          C    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~flt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  n c vt~~~~~~~~~.. .........
5'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~S                                                                    -    co
-4    ~~~~~~~ ~ ~   -....--~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~0   C6sa
0                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                 CL
3   P- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     
to 0~~
*                   -        -                                                     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0  .10~~~~~~~~~~~
S R R tfl. m   cs & cicitS'o   a  ~  ~   ~    R R R R R3~ S                                    0
*t*--k1.bcb   ibobtbb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aIRE  w  tens           yE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
1t~~~~~~~4 4 S~~~~~~~~~  C  _ _ _             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   4:b~6L
____                  ntn *tn                          ne-t   _ btRL



- 103 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
(In millions of US Dollars)
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter              Quartely           Cumulative
(Ending date)                             Disbursements    Disbursements
1993
March 31                                       14.01            14.0
June 30                                         2.0              16.0
September 30                                    3.9              19.0
December 31                                     3.0              22.0
1994
March 31                                        5.0              27.0
June 30                                        10.0              37.0
September 30                                   10.0              47.0
December 31                                    10.0              57.0
1995
March 31                                       10.0              67.0
June 30                                        10.0              77.0
September 30                                   10.0              87.0
December 31                                    11.0              98.0
1996
March 31                                       10.0             108.0
June 30                                        10.0             118.0
September 30                                    9.0             127.0
December 31                                     9.0             136.0
1997
March 31                                        8.0             144.0
June 30                                         6.0             150.0
September 30                                    6.0             156.0
December 31                                     5.0             161.0
1998
March 31                                        5.0             166.0
June 30                                         4.0             170.0
September 30                                    3.0             173.0
December 31                                     3.0             176.0
1999
March 31                                        4.0             180.0
June 30                                         4.0             184.0
September 30                                    4.0             188.0
December 31                                     3.0             191.0
2000
March 31                                        3.0             194.0
June 30                                         6.0             200.0
1/ Includes US$12 million for the Special Account and US$4 million for retroactive financing
incurred after June 30, 1992.



- 104 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
A.   Documents supporting the Staff Appraisal Report
1.   Summary of Sub-project Appraisals
2.   Lessons learned from Other Urban Transport Projcts
Previously an Annex to the White Cover SAR
B.   Selected Sector Papers
3.   Transporte Urbano en Ciudades Medias de Mexico, Propuesta Lineas de
Credito Sectorial. BANOBRAS, Direcci6n de Financiamiento del
Desarrollo, September 1989.
4.   Diagn6stico Global del Transporte Urbano en Ciudades Medias - Felipe
Ochoca y Asociados, S.C. Louis Berger Int, Inc. September 1989.
5.   Estimaci6n de Costos de Operaci6n de vehiculos Modelo HDM.   BANOBRAS,
Direcci6n de Financiamiento del Desarrollo, March 1989.
6.   Politica Nacional de Transporte Urbano.  Lineamientos Relativos al
Informe. July 1989.
7.   Methodology for Evaluation Medium City Urban Transport Proiects - Felipe
Ochoa y Asociados, S.C., and Louis Berger International, Inc., 1989.
8.   Manual de Operacion para el Programa Nacional del Sistema de Transporte
Urbano. BANOBRAS .October 1992.
C.   Selected Project Related Studies-First Stage Cities.
9.   Reporte de Evaluacion - Subproyecto Toluca. BANOBRAS. March 1992
10. Reporte de Evaluacion - Subproyecto Leon. BANOBRAS. March 1992
11. Reporte de Evaluacion - Subprovecto Ciudad Juarez. BANOBRAS. March 1992
12. Cd. Juarez - Estudio de Factibilidad de Transporte Urbano de Pasaieros,
Direcci6n General de Vialidad Municipal, Diciembre 1990.



- 105 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 5
13. Cd. Juarez - Estudio Integral de Transporte Urbano, Informe de
Preevaluaci6n. Versi6n Resumida, Gobierno del Estado de Chihuahua,
Felipe Ochoa y Asociados, S.C., Louis Berger Int. Inc., July 1989.
14. Metodologia para el Diagn6stico Pron6stico v Asignaci6n del Transito de
Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua. Informe - Anexo 1. September 1989.
15.  Evaluaciones Econ6micas de Nuevas Vialidades Primarias v Pavimentaci6n
de Rutas de Transporte,Informe sobre el supbroyecto Ciudad Juarez -
Anexo 2, September 1989.
16. Estudio Integral de Transporte Urbano para la Cd. de Chihuahua, Informe
de Preevaluaci6n Resumen Ejecutivo - Felipe Ochoa y Asociados S.C.,
Louis Berger International Inc., August 1989.
17. Metodologia para el Diagn6stico Pron6stico v Asignaci6n del Transito de
la Ciudad de Chihuahua. Informe Anexo 1. August 1989.
18. Segundo ProVecto de Transporte Urbano - Subprovecto Chihuahua - Felipe
Ochoa y Asociados, S.C., and Louis Berger International, Inc., August
1989.
19. Estudio Integral del Transporte Urbano de la Ciudad de Le6n. Informe de
Diagn6stico - Anexos A, B, C, D, E y F. 1990.
20. Programa Integral de Transporte Urbano de Le6n, Guanajuato.
D.   Selected Project Related Studies-Second Stage Cities.
21. Diagn6stico del Transporte Urbano en la Zona Metropolitana de
Coatzacoalcos - Veracruz. Informe (versi6n preliminar). March 1989.
22.  Plan de Desarrollo del Municipio de Puebla.   1990.
23. Diagn6stico del Transporte Urbano, Zona Metropolitana de Coatzacoalcos.
Ver. Felipe Ochoa y Asociados, S.C., and Louis Berger International,
Inc. Diciembre, 1989.
24. Diagn6stico del Transporte Urbano, Area Metropolitana Tampico-Madero-
Altamira, Felipe Ochoa y Asociados, S.C., and Louis Berger
International, Inc. Diciembre, 1989.
25. Diagn6stico de Transporte Urbano de la ReAi6n Metropolitana de la
Laguna, Felipe Ochoa y Asociados, S.C., and Louis Berger International,
Inc. Septiembre, 1989.
26. Diagn6stico del Transporte Urbano, Zona Metropolitana de San Luis
Potosi, SLP, Felipe Ochoa y Asociados, S.C., and Louis Berger
International, Inc. Diciembre, 1989.



- 106 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 5
27. Diagn6stico del Transporte Urbano en la Ciudad de Merida. Yuc., Felipe
Ochoa y Asociados, S.C., and Louis Berger International, Inc. Diciembre,
1989.
E.   Documents held by BANOBRAS
28. Manual de Operaci6n para el Programa de Nacional de Transporte Urbano.
SHCP, Marzo, 1992
29. Diagn6stico; Zona Metropolitana de Coatzacoalcos, Ver. FOA, Felipe
Ochoa y Associados S.C. Consultores, March 1989
30. Diagn6stico; Zona Metropolitana de La Laguna. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y
Associados S.C. Consultores, March 1989
31. Diagn6stico; Merida, Yuo. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados S.C.
Consultores, March 1989
32. Dia_n6stico; Zona Metropolitana de San Luis Potosi, S.L.P. FOA, Felipe
Ochoa y Associados S.C. Consultores, March   1989
33. Diagn6stico; Zona Metropitana de Tampico. Tams. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y
Associados S.C. Consultores, January 1989
34. Diagn6stico Global del Transporte Urbano en Ciudades Medias. FOA, Felipe
Ochoa y Associados S.C. Consultores,       September, 1989
35. Politica Nacional de Transporte Urbano. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados
S.C. Consultores, July 1989
36. Procedimientos de Licitaci6n de Obras Viales Urbanas. FOA, Felipe Ochoa
y Associados S.C. Consultores, March 1989
37. Lineamientos Metodol6gicos para la Evaluaci6n Econ6mica y Financiera de
Provectos de Vialidad y Transporte Urbano. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y
Associados S.C. Consultores, September 1990
38. Adquisici6n de Autobuses Urbanos. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados S.C.
Consultores, March 1989
39. Subproyecto Chihuahua, Reporte Central. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados
S.C. Consultores, August 1989
40. Subprovecto Chihuahua, Informe de Prevaluaci6n. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y
Associados S.C. Consultores, February 1990



- 107 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 5
41.  Subprovecto Chihuahua, ANEXO I. Metodologia Para el Diagn6stico,
Pron6stico y Asignaci6n del Transito. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados
S.C. Consultores, October 1989
42.  Subprovecto Chihuahua, ANEXO II. Evaluaciones Econ6micas de Nuevas
Vialidades Primarias, Cruces, Desnivel y Pavimentaci6n de Rutas de
Transporte Urbano. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados S.C. Consultores,
October 1989
43.  Subproyecto Chihuahua, ANEXO III. Los Semaforos en Diversas
Intersecciones. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados S.C. Consultores, October
1989
44.  SubproVecto Chihuahua, ANEXO IV. Mantenimiento de Vialidades. FOA,
Felipe Ochoa y Associados S.C. Consultores, October 1989
45.  Subproyecto Ciudad Juares, Reporte Central. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y
Associados S.C. Consultores, September 1989
46.  Subproyecto Ciudad Juares, Informe de Prevaluaci6n. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y
Associados S.C. Consultores, February 1990
47.  Subprovecto Ciudad Juares,  ANEXO I.. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados
S.C. Consultores, October 1989
48.  Subprovecto Ciudad Juares.  ANEXO II. Evaluaciones Econ6micas de Nuevas
Vialidades Primarias, Cruces, Desnivel v Pavimentaci6n de Rutas de
Transorte Urbano. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados S.C. Consultores,
October 1989
49.  Subprovecto Ciudad Juares.  ANEXO III.  Analisis de Capacidad y Niveles
de Servicio en Intersecciones. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados S.C.
Consultores, October 1989
50.  SubproVecto Ciudad Juares, Reporte de Evaluaci6n (Borrador) FOA, Felipe
Ochoa y Associados S.C. Consultores, September 1991
51.  Provecto de Vialidades Zonas Oriente. FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados
S.C. Consultores, April 1990
52.  Estimaci6n de Costos de Operaci6n de Vehiculos para Condiciones Urbanas.
Adaptaci6n de Modelo VOC del BIRF a las Condiciones Nacionales
(Borrador). FOA, Felipe Ochoa y Associados S.C. Consultores, September
1991
53.  Subproyecto Morelia, Prediagn6stico del Estudio Integral. Ustran,
Urbanismo y Sistemas de Transporte, December 1988
54.  Subprovecto Morelia, Sintesis Elecutiva. Ustran, Urbanismo y Sistemas de
Transporte, April 1989



- 108 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 5
55.  Subprovecto Morelia. Ingenieria de Transito. Ustran, Urbanismo y
Sistemas de Transporte, March 1989
56.  Subprovecto Morelia. Transporte Plablico. Ustran, Urbanismo y Sistemas de
Transporte, March 1989
57.  Subprovecto Morelia. Analisis Financiero. Ustran, Urbanismo y Sistemas
de Transporte, March 1989
58.  Subproyecto Morelia, Metodoligias. Ustran, Urbanismo y Sistemas de
Transporte, March 1989
59.  Subproyecto Le6n, Antecedentes. Cal y Mayor y Asoc, April 1989
60.  Subproyecto Le6n, Reporte Central. Cal y Mayor y Asoc, April 1989
61.  Subproyecto Le6n, Informes de Diagn6stico. Cal y Mayor y Asoc, April
1989
62.  Subproyecto Le6n, Informes de Estrategias. Cal y Mayor y Asoc, April
1989
63.  Subproyecto Le6n, Reporte de Evaluaci6n. Cal y Mayor y Asoc, October
1991
64.  Subproyecto Toluca, Reporte Central. Cal y Mayor y Asoc, April 1989
65.  Subprovecto Toluca, Informe Diagn6stico. Cal y Mayor y Asoc, April 1989
66.  Subprovecto Toluca, Informes Estrategias. Cal y Mayor y Asoc, April 1989
67.  Subprovecto Toluca. Reporte de Evaluaci6n. Cal y Mayor y Asoc, October
1991






IBRD 23
2  l\ >-  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA                                            MEXICO
MEDIUM-SIZE CITIES
. r  t    ,   .._..                                                     URBAN  TRANSPORT  PROJECT
STATE CA'rIAS
AJA                        0 A  6   A                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PRI~PAL CTIES Oft TOWNS
CAI lfogNi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O~~AIIWf
a.                                                                             SEEMO MAIN Ro/ADSfto
5                                                                                     L4X%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IOAD>S
+    1`0"cAl. AMPOAT
j                                                           W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIRt*INALOR SOUNtAAtES
Acop.            OAZAC                                            j !A
leojn. oW~ -o x.l XD *O,Z j4A 5 ~7 SD- \  v I j /
ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
"eLs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o                                                                 mxco ,   GUTML 
_*g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A4b. ___1w  >
_  ~~~~~~~~   r   )                                                             T  o }                 ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HONDURAS
'SA                                                N     OCIET   902
zi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



