Page  1
December 12, 1997
Director General 
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos  
Tecoyotitla 100 
Col.  Florida- 
01030 México, D. F.
Director General de Crédito Público 
Dirección General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, Piso 9 
Colonia del Valle 
03 1 00 México, D. F.
Dear Sirs:
Re: Medium Size Cities Urban Transport Project
    (Loan 3 5 5 9-NEE): Amendment
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Medium Size Cities Urban Transport Project) 
between International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco 
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. (the Borrower) dated June 18, 1993, as 
amended (the Loan Agreement), and the Guarantee Agreement for the same Project between 
United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank of even date therewith as amended 
(the Guarantee Agreement).  Whenever used in this letter, the several terms defined 
'in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings set forth therein
Pursuant to discussions between staff of the Borrower, the Guarantor and the 
Bank, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement 
as follows:
Loan Agreement
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
Paragraph (p) is amended to read as follows: "(p) "Subproject means any 
of the following activities to be carried out by a Subborrower utilizing the proceeds 
of a Subloan and/or Grant: (i) preparation of an ITP; (ii) design and execution of 
immediate civil works, commenced or to be commenced before completion of an ITP for 
the municipal area in question, for improvement of such area's urban transportation 
system (together with the acquisition and installation of traffic and parking 
management equipment undertaken prior to the completion of such ITP; (iii) design and 
execution of the civil works recommended by an ITP, as well as the execution of the 
training, technical assistance, institutional strengthening and research measures and 
acquisition and use of equipment and buses for public transportation recommended by 
such ITP and in accordance with the guidelines of the PVT Operating Manual."
(b)
A new paragraph (r) is added to read as follows: "(r) "Financial 
Intermediary" means a duly qualified credit institution.  "
(c)
A new paragraph (s) is added to read as follows: "(s) "Intermediary Loan' 
means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a Financial Intermediary 
with the proceeds of the Loan to finance buses for public transportation."
2.       In Schedule I to the Loan Agreement:
(a)
Categories (3), (4) and (5) in the table in paragraph 1 are amended to 
read as set forth in the Annex hereto; and
(b)
Paragraph 2 is amended to read as follows:
"2. For the purposes of this Schedule and Schedule 5 to the Loan 
Agreement
Page  2
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any county other than of the Guarantor for goods or 
services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than 
that of the 
Guarantor;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures 'in the 
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory 
of the Guarantor;
(c) 
the term "technical assistance" in Categories (2) and (4) 
includes the preparation of final designs for Subproject civil 
works; and
(d)
the term "neighborhood pavement works" means pavement works 
in neighborhoods where the average income of the head of the 
household is not more than 5 times the official minimum salary, as 
certified by the Subborrower to the Borrower.
3.
In Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement:
Part B is amended to read as follows:
"(1)
Provision of Subloans to Subborrowers to finance Subprojects-, and
(2)
Provision of Intermediary Loans to Financial Intermediaries to 
finance buses for public transportation."
4.        In Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement:
(a)
The title of this Schedule is amended to read as follows: "Procedures for 
and Terms and Conditions of Subloans, Grants and Intermediary Loans";
(b)
A new heading is 'inserted 'immediately before paragraph I to read as 
follows:
"Section 1: Subloans and Grants    ,
(c)
Paragraph I (d) is amended to read as follows: "Subloans shall be 
denominated, and their 'interest, principal and other charges be payable 'in pesos.  
The interest rate on such Subloans shall be variable and no less than the CETES rate 
plus two percentage points.";
(d)
A new paragraph l(f) (vii) is added to read as follows: "plus (vii) 100% 
of foreign expenditures and 86% of local expenditures for buses.";
(e)
Paragraph 1(I) is amended to read as follows: "A Subproject shall be 
carried out in municipalities with legal personality, and with a population of up to 
1,200,000 inhabitants but no less than 50,000 inhabitants; provided, however, that 
less than 50,000 inhabitants shall be permissible if it is demonstrated to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that such municipality is an economic center of priority 
concern, and provided further, that for the purpose of Subprojects involving the 
purchase and use of buses for public transportation or involving neighborhood pavement 
works (as defined in Schedule 1, paragraph 2 (d)), the metropolitan areas of Monterrey 
and Guadalajara may also be Subborrowers."
(f)
Paragraph 2 (b) is amended by 'inserting the word "buses" immediately 
after the word "goods";
(g)
Paragraph 2 (c) is amended by 'inserting the word "and buses" immediately 
after the word "goods"-,
(h)
Paragraph 2 (d) is amended by 'inserting the words "and buses" 
immediately after the word "goods" whenever it appears;
(i)
Paragraph 5 (b) is amended by 'inserting a comma and the word "buses" 
Immediately after the word "goods"-, and
Page  3
(j)
Paragraph 7 (b) is amended by  deleting  the  year  "1996"  and  
replacing  it  by "1999".
(k)
At the end of this Schedule, a new section is added to read as follows:
"Section II: Intermediary Loans.
1.
Intermediary Loans shall be denominated, and their interest, principal and other 
charges shall be payable in pesos.  The interest rate on such Intermediary Loans shall 
be variable and no less than the CETES rate.
2.
The principal amount of each Intermediary Loan shall be repaid on the terms and 
conditions applicable to the Subloans.
3.
The procedures for malting Intermediary Loans, and the terms and conditions of 
the Intermediary Loans, shall be as set forth 'in the PVT Operating Manual, subject to 
the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
4.
Intermediary Loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower, shall obtain, by 
written agreement with the Financial Intermediary, rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, 'including, inter alia, the right to:
(a)
require the purchasing entity to use the buses and to maintain them in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, administrative, and environmental 
standards;
(b)
require that the buses to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Intermediary Loans shall be procured 'in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 
to this Agreement and that such buses shall be used exclusively for the purposes of 
the Project;
(c)
Inspect, by themselves or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such buses included in the Subproject, the operation thereof 
and  any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the purchasing entity shall take out and maintain with 
responsible 'insurers such insurance, against such risks and 'in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards 'incident to the acquisition 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Intermediary 
Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable 
in a currency freely usable by the purchasing entity to replace or repair such goods; 
and
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower or the Guarantor 
shall reasonably request relating to the Foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the purchasing entity and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Subproject.
5.
Agreements for Intermediary Loans shall also include, inter alia, provisions 
whereby:
(a)
the Financial Intermediary shah m records and separate accounts adequate 
to reflect, 'in accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and 
expenditures 'in connection with the execution of the Subproject;
(b)
the Financial Intermediary shall: (1) have the records and separate 
accounts referred to in (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards and procedures consistently applied, by 
independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the Borrower and to SECOGEF; (ii) 
furnish to the Borrower and to SECOGEF as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Borrower shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Borrower such other information concerning said 
records and separate accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Borrower shall from 
time to time reasonably request;
Page  4
(c)
when applying for Intermediary Loan withdrawals and as a precondition 
therefore, the Financial Intermediary shall present to the Borrower and to the 
Guarantor documentation justifying the expenditures to which such withdrawals shall 
apply, and the documentation shall be such as would be acceptable by the Bank for 
processing withdrawal applications presented by the Borrower under the Loan 
Agreement-.
(d)
the Financial Intermediary shall comply, or cause compliance, with the 
applicable provisions of the PVT Operating Manual.
6.
No expenditures for buses required for a Subproject shall be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the loan unless the Intermediary Loan for such 
Subproject shall have been approved by the Bank and such Expenditures shall have been 
made not earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received 
the application and information required under paragraph 7 (a) below of such 
Intermediary Loan.
7.
(a)      When presenting an Intermediary Loan to the Bank for approval, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank 
together with: (i) a description of the Financial Intermediary; and (ii) a fully 
executed Agreement for an Intermediary Loan, satisfactory to the Bank to become 
effective upon Bank approval of said application.
(b)
Applications made pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1999.
5.
In Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement:
Section I Part C, is amended by adding new paragraphs 5 and 6 to read as 
follows:
"5.      Buses financed through Subloans shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited 
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank."
"6.      Buses financed through Intermediary Loans shall be procured 
under 
contracts awarded on the basis of established commercial practices 
prevalent in 
the territory of the Guarantor unless such practices are, 
in the Bank’s opinion 
inconsistent with economy and efficiency (in terms 
of the resulting prices) or with 
project objectives (in terms of 
sufficiently and timely vehicle 
availability)."
Guarantee Agreement
In Section 4.02, the address for the Guarantor is deleted and replaced by the 
following:
"Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Dirección General de Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, Piso 9 
Colonia del Valle 
03 1 00 México, D.F."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the three originals 
of this letter and returning one fully signed original to us.  Upon receipt by the 
Bank of such fully signed original, the amendments set forth in this letter will 
become effective as of the date of this letter.
Sincerely,
Olivier Lafourcade 
Director and Resident Representative 
Page  5
Mexico Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS
BY:  ALFREDO F. NAVARRETE MARTINEZ 
     DIRECTOR ADJUNTO DE FINANZAS
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By:  DR. CARLOS GARCíA-MORENO ELIZONDO
     DIRECTOR GENERAL DE CREDITO PUBLICO
ANNEX 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 'in each Category:
  Amount of the
 Loan Allocated
    % of
  (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods for Parts A.I
200,000
90%
-A.3 of the Project
(2)
Training, consultants'   6,900,000
100%
services, technical
assistance and  salaries
of temporary  staff for
Parts A.1 -A.3 of the
Project, as well as the
portion of consultants'
services and technical
assistance financed by
Grants for the preparation
of ITPS
(3)
Goods and civil works for 
       Subprojects under Part B
of the Project:
(a)   Immediate civil   17,500,000      
65%
works referred 
to in Section 
1.02 (p) (11) of 
this Agreement
(b)   Other civil works 41,000,000
65%
      (other than those
financed under 
Sub-Category (d)
       below)
(c)   Goods
     7,200,000
90%
(d)   Neighborhood
    50,000,000
80%
      pavement works
Page  6
(4)
(a)
Training, con-    19,400,000
100%
sultants' 
services and 
technical
assistance 
financed by
Subloans and/or by
Grants (other than
Grants for the
preparation of ITPS)
(b)
Subloans and
    10,000,000
100%
Intermediary 
Loans to finance 
buses
(5)   Unallocated
    24,800,000
       Subtotal
          177,000,002
       Partial cancellation as of
       October 22, 1997.
    23,000,000
TOTAL
          200,000,000
