Page  1
September 9, 1998
Lic. José Luis Flores Hernández 
Director General  
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos 
Tecoyotitla 100 
Col. Florida  
01030 México, D.F. 
Dr. carlos Garacía Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Dirección General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, Piso 9 
Colonia del Valle 
03100 México, D.F.
Re: Medium Size Cities Urban Transport Project
                 (Loan 3559-ME): Amendment to the Loan Agreement                   
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement: (Medium Size Cities Urban Transport Project) 
between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco 
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. (the Borrower) dated June 18, 1993, as 
amended (the Loan Agreement) and the Guarantee Agreement for the same Project between 
the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank of even date therewith as 
amended (the Guarantee Agreement). Whenever used in this Amendment Letter, the several 
terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings set forth therein and 
the term “1997 Amendment” means the amendment to the Loan and Guarantee Agreement 
dated December 12, 1997.
Pursuant to discussions between staff of the Borrower, the Guarantor and the 
Bank, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 6.01 (d): the words “in cities with a population of 400,000 or more but 
no more than 1,200,000 inhabitants,” are deleted.
2.
The words “in medium-size cities” are deleted in the objectives of the Project 
in Sub-clause (a) in the first paragraph of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 
3.
Schedule 5, Paragraph 1. (i) is deleted and replaced by:
“(i) A Subproject shall be carried out in municipalities (including Mexico City) 
with legal personality and with a population of no less than 50,000 inhabitants; 
provided, however, that municipalities with less than 50,000 inhabitants may be 
accepted if it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Bank that such municipality 
is an economic center of priority concern.”
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the three originals 
of this letter and returning one fully signed original to us.  Upon receipt by the 
Bank of such fully signed original, the amendments set forth in this Amendment Letter 
will become effective as of July 31, 1998 upon receipt by the Bank of the revisions to 
the PVT Operational Manual, adopted by the Guarantor in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, and setting forth the revised eligibility of sub-borrowers.
Sincerely,
/s/ Olivier Lafourcade 
Director and Resident Representative 
Mexico Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
Page  2
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS
 Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS
/s/ Abelardo Bravo Herrera
Date:  September 22, 1998
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
/s/ Dr. Carlos García Moreno
Date: October 5, 1998 
