Report No. PID3968
Project Name                     Bangladesh-Dhaka Urban Transport (@+) ...
Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Transportation, Urban Transport
Project ID                       BDPA9524
Borrower                         Government of  Bangladesh (GOB)
Implementing Agency              Bangladesh Road Transport Authority
Allenbury, Old Airport Road
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Contact: Director
Tel: 880-2-315544
Date PID Update                  January 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         June 1998
Projected Board Date             January 1999
1.      Project Objectives: The focus of this project would be on the most urgent
policy, institutional, and infrastructure issues requiring immediate
attention, in addition to setting out an agreed long-term strategy for future
development for urban transport in Dhaka. The transport problems facing Dhaka
are multifaceted that makes the project implementation difficult. It is
important, therefore, to develop a phased approach and focus only on a limited
number of objectives in this project to minimize implementation risks. The
key project objectives would be to: (a) reduce congestion and delays in the
transport network in Dhaka city; (b) help develop a public transport system
with leading role for efficient private-sector-run bus systems, and retaining
a positive role for the cycle-rickshaws; (c) strengthen institutional, policy
and regulatory framework; (d) prepare long-term urban transport plan to cope
with future growth of the city in coordination with future land-use planning
for the capital area; and (e) improve road safety and environment. Since some
environmental issues are national in scope and can be best addressed through a
national environmental project, this project would confine itself to local
environmental issues and focus on developing a phased action program. tc \l 1
11      The focus of this project would be on the most urgent policy,
institutional, and infrastructure issues requiring immediate attention, in
addition to setting out an agreed long-term strategy for future development
for urban transport in Dhaka. The transport problems facing Dhaka are
multifaceted, and this project is being initiated in a very difficult
environment. It is important therefore to develop a phased approach and focus
only a limited number of objectives in this project to minimize implementation
risks. The key project objectives would be to\: (a) reduce congestion and
delays on the transport network in Dhaka city; (b) develop an integrated
transport system to address the needs of the city population, including the
(special ???) needs of women and the urban poor; (c) help develop a public
transport system with leading role for efficient private-sector-run bus
systems and retaining a positive role for the cycle-rickshaws; (d) strengthen
institutional, policy and regulatory framework; (e) prepare long-term urban
transport plan to cope with future growth of the city; and (f) improve road
safety and environment. Since environmental issues are national in scope and



can be best addressed through a national environmental project, this project
would confine itself to local environmental issues, and would focus on
developing a phased action program."
2.      Project Description:    PRIVATE  The project components, subject to
establishing economic viability, would tentatively consist of: (a) support for
capacity building, including necessary technical assistance, for addressing
institutional policy and regulatory framework, enhancing private sector role,
increasing implementation capacity and developing an environmental improvement
action plan; (b) support measures for improving public transport system with
focus on efficient private sector-run-bus systems, and a positive role for the
continued use of non-motorized cycle-rickshaws on a sustainable basis;
(c) training for transport agencies and others, including public education on
road safety; (d) civil works, materials, equipment, and project support for
managing traffic better, improving road rehabilitation and maintenance,
constructing junction overpasses, and improving facilities for buses (bus-only
lanes), non-motorized modes (junction improvements, special lanes) and
pedestrians (sidewalks, pedestrian over-bridges); and (e) preparation of long-
term urban-transport plan for the capital area. In all components, there would
be a close involvement of NGOs and community participation in selection design
and monitoring of subprojects. In view of the complexity and dynamic nature
of the problems, the project would allow for flexibility to build on
experience during project progress.
3.      Project Preparation and Implementation: The project preparation has been
completed satisfactorily, with strong support from different public and
private agencies, the media and the public. It is expected to go to IDA Board
in January 1999. In view of the multiplicity of agencies and organizations
involved in the transport sector in Dhaka, project preparation coordination
and management was undertaken by a specially constituted Project Preparation
Unit (PPU) under the Ministry of Communications (MOC). This PPU has been
converted into a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the newly established
Greater Dhaka Transport Planning and Coordination Board (GDTPCB); the overall
project oversight and coordination during implementation will be undertaken by
the PCU. Numerous studies were conducted and several advance actions were
initiated to ensure speedy and effective project preparations. There have been
several key areas where notable progress has been made during the past few
months. Among the are (a) deregulation of fares on premium bus services and
other incentives, encouraging private sector greater participation in the
provision of improved bus services; (b) introduction of special bus routes on
a pilot basis which have become a great success with the public subsequently.
The Government has also committed to extending special bus lanes to other
major corridors in the city; (c) setting up a Public Consultative Group (PCG)
with the Mayor of Dhaka city as the Chairman, and members from the private
sector, media, beneficiary groups and other stakeholders, to discuss project-
design and issues; which assisted project design considerably; (d) completion
of major advance implementation actions such as setting up the new
coordination body GDTPCB, appointing project supervision and monitoring
consultants and setting up project implementation units, all before IDA Board
date.
4.      Project Financing: The total project cost is tentatively estimated at US$
234.2 million, to be shared between the GOB and IDA. Of this, the IDA
contribution will be US $177 million.
- 2-



5.      Environmental Aspects: In view of the significant positive environmental
impact the project was assigned an Environmental Assessment Category of B.
The project is expected to bring notable improvements to air quality, which is
currently very poor in Dhaka city. Besides, it will also reduce congestion,
road accident rates, and travel time, thus bringing about a qualitative change
in urban life, in this megacity of more than 8 million people.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Thampil Pankaj, TM
Tel: (202) 473-4567
Fax: (202) 477-5520
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 15, 1999.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-4-



