RP-41
GOVERNMENT OF
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH ROAD
TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
RESETTLEMENTA CTION PLAN
DHAKA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
October 1998



I                I I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I



Dhaka Urban Transport Project
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Resettlement Action Plan: Explanatory Statement
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT ....................................................                                      4
SOCIAL IMPACTS AND  RIESETTLEMENT: ....................................................                           6
RESETTLEMENT ACTION  PLAN ......................................................                                6
1.  INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES ......................................................-.                      6
1.1    Background .....................................................6
1.2    Bangladesh and World Bank requirements regarding displacement ...................................................6
1.3    The need for resettlement in the project ......................................................7
WORK ............................................                                                               9
PACKAGES ............................................                                                           9
2. IMPACTS AND ENTITLEMENTS ........................................................9
2.1 Types of impact to be addressed ........................................................9
2.2    Summary entitlement rnatrix ........................................................9
2.4    Resettlement sites ........................................................ 12
2.5    Support principles for dlifferent categories of impact .......................................................  13
2.6    Entitlement policy farnework matrix .......................................................        19
CATEGORY 1: LOSS OF LAND AND TREES THEREON ..................................... 22
Category 3: Loss of residential and associated structures .......................................................  26
DETAILS .....    .                                                                                             26
CATEGORY 5: LOSS OF USUFRUCT RIGHTS THROUGH MORTGAGE OR LEASE 29
C. VICINITY OF IMPACT: INDIRECT GROUP-ORIENTED IMPACTS. SUPPORT GIVEN TO
COLLECTIVE GROUPS .................                                                                             37
3. AREAS OF IMPACT .......................                                                                   38
4. PHASED APPROACH ...................                               ..38
5. SOCIAL ASSESSMENT., CENSUS AND SURVEY                                     ........ ............... 39
5.1    Social assessment ........................... ...............39
5.2    Census and baseline socio-economic survey ..........                           ................................ 41
BUSINESS TYPE .................................                                                                43
TOTAL ......                                                                                                    43
Locations ........ , 43



5.3   Cut-off   dlate  ......................................................................... ............. 455
6.  CO-ORDINATION BETWEEN CIVIL WORKS AND RESETTLEMENT ..........                          ... 45
6.1 Screening aiad planning ..................................................................................................... 45
6.2 Implementation ....... 46
Land Acquisitio;n and Resettlement Summary Budget .... . .     50
8. PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION PROCESS ... . 51
8.1 Stakeholder participation ....... 51
8.2 Options and Choices for Project Affected People     ...... 52
8.3 Information Campaigns .......                                                             52
9. GRIEVANCE REDRESS PROCESS . . .... 52
9.1    Valuation Process for Acquired-Assets ...................................... 52
9.2    Annual Adjustment of Compensation ......................................               53
9.3    Grievance Procedure and Information Dissemination ...................................... 53
9.4   Steps for public consultation ...................................... 54
10.   INSTITUT'IONAL ARRANGEMENTS ....................................... i5
10.1   Overall co-ordination ...................................... 55
10.2  Zone-level sub-committees ......................................                       58
10.3    Resettlement and  rehabilitation  staff .......................................      .8
10.4  Collaboration  with  local NGOs ......................................                 59
10.5  Co-ordination with other Government agencies .........................0............. 6
10.6  Transparency and accountability .......................................60
10.7  Improvement in policy and practice ........................................0
10.8  Flow of Funds ...................................... 60
11. MONITOIRING AND EVALUATION                          0.. .
TOTAL .88
TOTAL .89
TOTAL .9
3



EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
1.   The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB) has applied for a loan
from the International Development Association (IDA) to assist in financing the Dhaka
Urban Transport Project (DUTP).
2.   The project has two major objectives:
(i) to improve urban transport services in an economically and environmentally
sustainable manner; and
(ii) to strengthen the institutional and policy framework and address long-term transport
planning issues in the Greater Dhaka Metropolitan Area.
3.   The DUTP will be implemented jointly by:
Dhaka City Corporation (DCC)
Roads and Highways Department (RHD)
Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA)
Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP)
Rajdhani Unnayan Katripakha (RAJUK)
Department of Environment (DOE)
The key implementing agencies will be DCC and RHD. Some 70% of the project
components will be implemented by DCC and some 15% by RHD.
4.   The project with be co-ordinated and managed by the Ministry of Communications and the
proposed Greater Dhaka Transport Planning and Co-ordination Board (GDTPCB) chaired
by the Dhaka City Corporation Mayor. The GDTPCB will be responsible for transport
planning and co-ordination within the Greater Dhaka area, and will be under the Ministry of
Communications.
5.   The DUTP is estimated to cost US $200.55 million including physical contingencies and
provision for price increases. This cost is tentative due to cost estimates yet to be
confirmed as a result of on-going detailed engineering design work.
6.   Negotiations for the c:redit has been schedule in October 1998. The Government has also
made good progress in implementing various Action Plan tasks required by the IDA as a
pre-condition to Board consideration of the credit in December 1998.
7.   One such IDA Board condition involves the completion and approval by the Government of
Bangladesh and the World Bank of a Resettlement Action Plan, in accordance with the
World Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
8.   The formulation of a Resettlement Action Plan entails:
(i)   preparation and approval of an entitlement policy framework for the project, based
on categories of social and economic impact on individuals, households, and local
communities;
4



(ii)  approval of an implementation plan (Resettlement Action Plan) to oiperationalize
the principles agreed upon in the entitlement policy framework; and
(iii) evidence of organisational and institutional capacity to undertake the land
acquisition and resettlement program.
9.   It should be noted that civil works can not take place under the DUTP befora the provisions
in the approved Resettlement Action Plan have been carried out, and in accordance with
the entitlement principles agreed upon. This includes the normal procedures under the
Acquisition and Requisition of Immovable Property Ordinance of 1982, with adequate time
given for acquisition notifications under the various sections of the Ordinance.
10.  The Entitlement Policy Framework for the Resettlement Action Plan was prepared by the
DUTP FPhase II study consultants and reviewed and approved by the World Bank. It was
also approved by the Government of Bangladesh in a meeting of the project Inter-
Secretarial Committee on June 3, 1998.
11.  Based on this framework, a detailed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was developed. It
contained guidelines and mechanisms for how to implement the provisions in the
entitlement framework. It should be noted that as of July 10, 1998, this Action Plan was
still incomplete. The socio-economic surveys.and verification of property rights had not
yet been completed. Work had been underway to collect the missing information and
incorporate it into the final version of the RAP.
12.  This final version of the RAP, which has been approved by the Bangladesh Government
and the World Bank, incorporates all missing information on the nature and magnitude of
the impacts. The budget has also been revised based on the up-to-date data ga[thered
through the most recent studies.
13..  The summary budget given below reflects revisions in terms of more accurate data on the
project's impacts:
Acquisition of land and assets:    Tk. 324.29 mill (US$ 6.90 mill)
Income restitution:                Tk 78.84 mill. (US$ 1.68 mill.)
Community benefits:                Tk. 7.12 mill (US$ 0.15 mill.)
Administrative costs:               Tk. 54.00 mill. (US$ 1.15 mill.)
Contingency 8%                      Tk. 37.14 mill. (US$ 0.79 mill.)
Total:                              Tk. 501.40 mill. (US$ 10.67 mill.)
14.  The Government of Bangladesh pays for acquisition of land and private assets. 75% of
other costs may be covered by the World Bank loan. Because the major cost in the project
is related to land acquisition, this works out to an overall cost sharing of GOB paying 77.5%
of the land acquisition and resettlement budget, and IDA paying 22.5%.
5



SOCIAL IMPACTS AND RESETTLEMENT:
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
1. INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES
1.1   Background
The Government of Bangladesh is preparing the Dhaka Urban Development Project (DUTP)
with assistance from the World Bank. It aims to improve transport infrastructure and services in
the Greater Dhaka Metropolitan Area. Phase I of DUTP (DUTP I) was completed by consultants in
mid-1997 and was followed by Phase II (DUTP II) which is due for completion in the third quarter
of 1998. DUTP I identified a range of key transport infrastructure and transport services
investment components; the DUTP II consultants are preparing detailed designs and bidding
documents for a range of these components, in which private land acquisition and resettlement
has been avoided as much as possible.
The DUTP components, for which detailed designs and bidding documents are being prepared
and which are the basis of the DUTP Resettlement Action Plan, have been divided into two
packages of works:
(i) First package of works:  * 10 x intersection improvements
* 3 x new NMT network links
3 x new pedestrian footbridges
* 20 kms of sidewalk construction/improvement
(ii) Second package of works: .  10 x intersection improvements
*  3 x new NMT network underpasses
3 x inter-district bus terminal rehabilitation
*  provision of bus lanes and lay-bys
.  provision of auto-restricted zones
*  2   x   new   grade-separated  interchange  facilities
(flyovers/overpasses)
.  2 x parking area improvements
*  Tongi Bypass new bridge deck, road widening  and 2 x
intersection improvements.
This Resettlement Action Plan describes the principles and approaches to be followed in
minimizing and mitigating negative social and related economic impacts caused by the project. It
contains the details of baseline and socio-economic surveys of the potentially affected population
undertaken in the preparation of the project. It also contains the institutional and organisational
mechanisms required to undertake the resettlement program.
1.2   Bangladesh and VVorld Bank requirements regarding displacement
The Bangladesh Government's land acquisition law of 1982 (Acquisition and Requisition of
6



Immovable Property Ordinance of 1982) requires that land and other immovable property needed
for a public purplose or in the public interest can be acquired by the Government at market value
plus 50 percent on such market value "in consideration of the compulsory nature of the
acquisition". The land acquisition law ensures a statutory cash compensation to legal owners of
properties under acquisition, but does not guarantee replacement of the acquired properties nor
restoration of the standard-of-living of those persons indirectly affected by the acquisition. As the
prescribed method under the law for calculating the market value relies on governrnent records of
property transactions, and as these tend to be under-valued to minirnize the payment of
government duties, the compensation at market value invariably falls vvell below the actual
replacement cost of the acquired property. In addition, the existing acquisition law hais no
provisions for compensating people who are not property owners but, nevertheless, stand to lose
from the acquisition (including tenants and encroachers on public and private lancds). Appendix 1
contains further details on the Bangladesh legal framework as it pertains to land acquisition and
compensation under the law.
The World Bank's policy on displacement is described in it's Operational Directive 4.30 on
Involuntary Resettlement. This policy document states that involuntary resettlement is an inl:egral
part of project design, and should be dealt with from the earliest stages of projecl: preparation. It
also states that adequate notification of eviction must be given, and all compensation must be
carried out prior to any award of contract for civil works involving IDA loan funds.
Despite some deficiencies in the acquisition law, the Bangladesh Government and the World Bank
aim to achieve the following overall goals related to resettlement:
*   Involuntary resettlement shall be avoided or minimized where feasible,
exploring all viable alternative project design options.
*   Whiere displacement is unavoidable, people losing assets, livelihood or other
resources shall be assisted in improving or at a minimum regaining their former
standard of living at no cost to themselves.
1.3   The need for resettlement in the project
1.3.1 Squatter and vendor encroachers
Most of the infrastructure work planned for the DUTP will take place within the established
public road reserves or right of ways (ROWs). Studies undertaken during the preparation
of the project show that these ROWs are not always free of encumbrances. The pubiic
land is encroached upon by squatters and vendors who have erected structures used for
residential or business purposes. Many of these squatter and vendor enicroacheirs will
have to, be displaced as part of the project. While squatter and vendor encroachEtrs are
not entitled to legal compensation for land they occupy, the project will give targeted
support to ensure that affected people are able to maintain their shelter and livelihood.
They will be given assistance to replace non-land structures and assets lost as a direct
result of the project. This approach is discussed in more details in section 2.5 on support'
principles for different categories of impacts.
1.3.2 Land acquisition and demolition of structures
Some land acquisition for the DUTP is required at some of the intersections where the
infrastructure improvements require additional land and, in particular, in conjunction with
7



the two proposed flyovers at Jatrabari and Mohakhali where the at-grade improvements to
cater for traffic movements below the flyovers require additional land. Many of these land
acquisition sites also involve affected structures and will require demolition of buildings.
Civil works under the project are being prepared as two bidding packages. As Table I
shows, the two work packages will use a total of 30,142 square-meters (7.44 acres) of
lands, of which 23,570 square-meters (or 5.82 acres) are under public ownership (GOB
and its agencies like DCC, Rajuk, etc.). The first package of project works involves only
one square meter of private land. The rest of the lands required for this package are
under public ownership. The second work package involves almost all of the lands, 1.62
acres, that have to be acquired from private ownership. Nearly 84% of these lands are
needed for the two flyovers at Jatrabari and Mohakhali.
The first work package will require relatively minor demolition and/or removal of
structures on the public lands. To the extent possible, the need for resettlement of
affected persons has been minimized for works under this package. Yet, two of the
three new NMT network links and some of the 10 intersections and associated footpath
construction and improvement will extend onto public lands beyond an existing ROW,
requiring transfer of these lands to DCC for the new ROW. There will also be a need for the
removal of structures on some of these public lands, as well as within some existing
ROWs.
Full or partial displacement of structures will take place for the works under package two.
The works under this package have also been revised to reduce displacement. The latest
estimate shows that at the four areas of major impacts (Jatrabari and Mohakhali flyovers,
and Mouchak and Rajarbagh intersections) the number of the structures that will be
affected has been greatly reduced: from the preliminary estimate of 338 to 39 only.
Updating of information will be continuing in view of the design modifications aimed at
minimizing the project's resettlement impacts.
8



Table 1.3.2.1: Land Requirement (in Square-meters) and
Locations of Private Land Acquisition
Work      Total     Total    Total   Location of Private Lands and
Amount of  Public   Private        Amount
Packages    Land     Lands    Lands
1
First     12,573   12,059      1     Kakrail Intersection
Second     17,569   11,003    6,566   Mouchak Intersection:         350
Rajarbagh Intersection:        49
Moghbazar Intersection:       355
Tejgaon NMT Underpass:        300
Jatrabari Flyover:          3,145
Mohakhali Flyover:          2,367
TO)TAL     _ 30,142   23,570    6,567                               6,567
2. IMPACTS AND ENTITLEMENTS
2.1 Types of impact to be addressed
The resettlement policy for this project addresses development-induced impacts caused by the
project, and is not limited to physical relocation. Studies conducted during project preparation
indicate that there are three broad categories of social and related economic impacts which
require mitigation. They are:
loss of assets, including land, non-residential and residential structures,
*     loss of livelihood or income opportunities, and
*     collective impacts on groups, such as loss of livelihood means of collective groups.
The first two categories represent direct project impacts on an identified popul2ition. The people
likely to be affected by the project in the area of impact have been surveyed and their names
recorded. The project monitoring and evaluation will compare the longer-term irnpact against the
project's baseline socio-economic data.
The third category represents an indirect impact, where group members need not be individually
registered. Gains and losses of a group-oriented nature are not quantifiable in terms of impact on
the individual. Mitigation and support mechanisms for these collective groups will be collectively
oriented. Monitoring of these beneficiaries will involve the study of the impacts uipon, and benefits
for the groups involved, and includes mobile hawkers and roadside vendors, rickshaw pullers and
beggars.
2.2   Summary entitlement matrix
A summary entitlement matrix for the project is provided in the table on the nexi. page. It shows by
check mark (tick) where "vulnerable" and "non-vulnerable" impactees (defined in the following
9



section 2.3) will be affected by the different types of project impacts (as listed in the left hand cells
of the matrix). This is for impactees found both adjacent to, and within the existing ROWs affected
by the project. A check mark (tick) indicates where a vulnerable or non-vulnerable impactee is
eligible for support under the project. The entitlement categories shown in the matrix, and their
support mechanisms are described in more detail in the following sections 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5.
10



DHAKA URBAN 1TRANSPORT PROJECT
Social Impacts and Resettlement: Summary Entitlement Matrix
Land acquisition and asset Displacement of asset
Impact and assistance      displacement adjacent to  from   within  existing
criterion                  existing ROW                ROW           _
Vulnerable   Non-          Vulnerable  Non-
Vulnerable                Vulnerable
A.  Area of Imp;act: Loss of land and other assets
(Support given to adult individuals, families and household)
1   Loss of lancd and trees
thereon
2.   Loss of non-residential    i             4            i            4
and associated
structures                                                               l
3.   Loss of resiciential       4             4            4            4
and associated
structures                                                               I
4    Loss of other non-         4
structure assets                                                         l
5.   Loss of usufiruct rights                                                 l
through mortgage or
lease
B.  Area of Impact: Lost or diminished livelihood
(Support given to adult individuals, men and women)
6.  Loss of income from                .
displaced business
activity                .
7.   Temporary loss of          4                          4
other business activity
income (business wage
earners)
8.  Temporary loss of                                      4
income from displaced
business activity
(permanent/semi-
permanent stalls)
9.   Loss of incorne from                     4
rented private land and
private premises
10.  Lost or diminiished        i                          4            4
livelihood from any
other impacts not yet
identified
C.    Vicinity of Impact: Indirect group-oriented impacts
(Support gliven to collective groups)
11.  Loss of some livelihood                               4
means due to collective
impacts(s)           l
11



2.3  Targeted support to vulnerable persons and groups
Through socio-economic surveys and other related studies, the project has determined
who among the affected population may be considered as "vulnerable" or at risk, or who
are likely to be excluded from the normal benefits of growth and development in Dhaka. For the
purposes of this project, vulnerable persons and groups have been defined as:
poor people (including hawkers, roadside vendors and rickshaw pullers) .
*    women-headed households, particularly poor women-headed households,
*    elderly people, particularly poor elderly persons,
*    physically impaired or disabled people, and
*    children.
Different impacts will affect these persons and groups differently, depending on the reason for
their vulnerability under the project, e.g. poor people may be at risk of losing their livelihood if they
lose their means of earning an income.
Those considered as poor will be members of any household earning at or below the
official poverty level for Dhaka. As of 1998, the official household poverty level for Greater
Dhaka City has been set at Taka 3,500 per mbnth. In 1998 it is estimated that some 55 percent of
the city dwellers of Greater Dhaka live below the poverty line.
In the following entitlement policy framework, reference is make to certain people who may be
potentially vulnerable as "socially recognized" persons, as recognized by the GDTPCB.
Development projects in developing countries, such as the DUTP in Bangladesh, frequently affect
people whose rights to land or other resources are not legally recognized, but are socially or
culturally recognized. There may also be cases where official records and documents on
ownership or rights are incorrect, outdated or have been accidentally destroyed. This may be the
case in isolated instances on the DUTP where the onus is with the GDTPCB to determine
eligibility for compensation of these people as "socially recognized persons" under the project,
provided the impact is within the project's areas of impact defined in chapter 3 and exists at the
time of the project's 'cut-off date" defined in section 5.3.
Vulnerable persons and groups will receive targeted support and special attention from the
project, and be provided with more options and support mechanisms than those not
considered vulnerable (i.e. "non-vulnerable"). The issue of options is discussed in the section
on participation and consultation.
2.4   Resettlement sites
At this stage of planning, very few households needing relocation have been identified. They do
not form a cluster or a community, and the project will assist them in self-relocation to a location of
their choice, rather than creating a small township or resettlement site.
Movement of larger groups or clusters of people is not envisaged in this project, and the preferred
strategy in the urban context is to assist people in self-relocation rather than develop resettlement
sites. However, should this become necessary in the future, such sites will be developed in
accordance with Government of Bangladesh and World Bank established practices and
guidelines; cf. for example the Jamuna Bridge Project. This includes:
12



* The need for community relocation sites should be documented
* Decisions to establish such sites should be made in consultation with the PAPs, who shouild
approve the sites
* Layouts and designs of residential sites should be prepared and approveid by all parties
* The suitability of the proposed sites and the economic viability of maintaining livelihoods irn a
new location should be documented
* Clear mechanisms should be developed for procuring, developing, and allotting housing plots
* The necessary infrastructure (water, sanitation, electricity, elementary schools, raligious
institutions, etc.) should be developed as part of the project
2.5  Support lprinciples for different categories of impact
2.5.1 Loss of land and trees thereon (Category 1.)
The project may cause people to lose land and trees thereon that thiey own. The project
-through the Bangladesh Government will therefore compensate larld owners of
required private land and any trees thereon with their entitled compensation under
the law (CUL). Their entitlement will be CUL which is inclusive of a 50% land premiurn, or
the value of equivalent replacement land, whichever is the greater. The project will refund
stamp duties on equivalent replacement land where applicable, but only if the replacement
land is purchased within 12 months of the issuance of Notice 3 for land acquisition or
during the life of the implementation period, whichever is the longer.
The entitilement unit for loss of private land compensation is the land owner who may be an
adult individual or individuals, adult member or members of a private company, family or
household. For public land transfer to DCC as new ROW land, the entitlement unit is the
Government. For this project all Category 1 impactees are classified as "non-vulnerable"
affected persons/entities.
The value of equivalent replacement land will. be determined by the Greater Dhaka
Transport Planning and Co-ordination Board (GDTPCB) based on equivalen., mouza-wide,
current rriarket prices. Where the equivalent replacement land value exceeds the CUL
(inclusive of the 50% land premium), the difference will be paid by the GDTP(CB.
Compensation for loss of land and any trees thereon will apply to affected public land
(being transferred to DCC as new project ROW land), affected private non-reside!ntial
(commercial etc.) land being activity used for its non-residential purpose at l:he time of the
commencement of the acquisition process, affected private residentiial land being actively
used for its residential purpose at the time of the commencement of the acquisition
process, and any affected private idle/vacant/open land.
2.5.2 Loss of non-residential and residential structures (Categories.2. aind 3.)
Although the need to demolish existing structures has been kept to a minimum, there are
situations where this is unavoidable and structures need to be removed to accommcdate
the proposed DUTP transport infrastructure and services. The project will therecfcre
compensate, through the Bangladesh Government, the owners of the non-residential
and residential structures that need to be demolished for t:he project's
implementation their entitled compensation under the law (CUL). Where the legality of
ownership is not provable, the GDTPCB will recognize "socially recognized owners" as
13



persons entitled to compensation for loss of their structures.
There are two types of affected structures. A "non-shiftable structure" which is a
structure with walls and roof that are not salvageable more or less intact, e.g. brick walls
with reinforced concrete roof, and brick walls with Cl sheet roof; and a "shiftable
structure" which is a structure made of materials that could be salvaged without incurring
much damage to those materials e.g. structures with Cl sheet walls and roof, or with
bamboo walls and Cl sheet roof and the like.
For "non-shiftable" structures, CUL inclusive of a 50% premium or the replacement value
as determined by the GDTPCB, whichever is the greater, will be paid as compensation.
Owners of "non-shiftable" structures will be permitted to retain salvageable building
materials, and a Structure or House Construction Grant of Tk 3,500 will be available to
those affected owners who opt to construct a replacement structure and who are classified
by the project as vulnerable PAPs.
For "shiftable" structures, compensation will not be paid. Instead, a Structure or House
Transfer Grant equivalent to one-eighth of the replacement cost of the structure will be
paid by the GDTPCB. If the owner of a "shiftable" structure is unable to shift (transfer) the
structure, cash compensation will be provided equivalent to the replacement value of the
structure as determined by the GDTPCB, instead of receiving the Structure or House
Transfer Grant.
Where applicable, when the entitlement is greater than the CUL amount (inclusive of the
50% premium) as assessed by the Deputy Commissioner, the difference will be paid by the
GDTPCB.
Loss of structure compensation will apply to all affected non-residential, residential and
associated structures on affected private and public land. This will involve both "
vulnerable" and "non-vulnerable" owners who may be an adult individual or individuals,
adult member or members of a private company, family or household.
Loss of structure compensation also applies to "vulnerable" permanent stalls and
static semi-permanent stalls located on private and public land within the areas of impact
(i.e. within the proposed project ROWs).
A permanent stall is a solid structure firmly (permanently) fixed to the footpath or road
pavement (or ground) and/or a wall, and which is used for the purpose of selling products
or services at one location/site.  It cannot be easily dismantled or moved, nor
manhandled. It can be secured (locked-up) by the vendor when not in use. A semi-
permanent stall is a structure which may be loosely (semi-permanently) fixed to the
footpath or road pavement (or ground) and/or a wall, or may be free-standing and which is
used for the purpose of selling products or services at one location/site. It can be easily
dismantled and moved, or manhandled. It may or may not be able to be secured (locked-
up) when not in use.
A "4static" semi-permanent stall refers to a hawker or vendor who operates that semi-
permanent stall at the same single locationisite every working day he or she conducts
business. That is, he or she has no other place of business from day-to-day; nor
during the day.
14



As cash compensation is considered a high risk option for poor and "vulnerable" pieople
and is normally inadequate in re-establishing their lost structures. Thea project; will
therefore  encourage  "vulnerable"  or at risk  affected  persons. to  choose
compensation options involving a replacement "non-shiftable" structure or the
shifting of a "shiftable" structure. Wealthier or more resourceful people ("non-
vulnerable" people), on the other hand, may prefer cash compensation which in their case
does not entail a risk.
Squatters residing in squatter dwellings are categorised as "particularly vulnerable"
people aind the project will therefore facilitate access to alternate sites and assist
affected people in gaining tenure at these sites by arranging for credit or giving
priority in existing housing schemes.
2.5.3 Loss of other non-structure assets (Category 4.)
"Shiftable" and "non-shiftable" non-structure assets other than land will be affected by the
project, requiring their removal. The project will therefore compensate owners of other
non-strLlcture assets that need to be removed for the project's implementation. This
will also apply to "socially recognized owners" of non-structure assets as recognized by the
GDTPCE3 where the legality of ownership is not provable.
For "non-shiftable" assets, compensation will be the estimated current CLUL value or the
replacement value of the asset as determined by the GDTPCB, whichever is the greater.
For "shiftable" assets, if the asset is shifted by the owner, compensation will be one-eight of
the replacement cost of the asset. The replacement value determined by the GDTPCB will
be paid if the asset is unable to be shifted by the owner.
Where applicable, any entitlement greater than the CUL value will be paid by the
GDTPCIB.
The com,pensation is applicable to non-structure assets on private and public lands, and
will affect both "vulnerable" and "non-vulnerable" owners of those assets.
2.5.4 Loss of usufruct rights through mortgage or lease (Category 5.)
DUTP specifically aims to reduce the extent of land acquisition ancd the need to demolish
existing structures, but there are many locations under the project where land acquisition or
demolition of structures is unavoidable. The project will therefore compensate owners of
non-residential and residential structures that need to be demolished for the
implementation of the project. Direct losses of usufruct right through mortgage or lease
with legal agreements or through socially recognized verbal agreements will be
compensated under the project.
The affected persons in this category will include all parties of both l(egal and verbal
agreements. DUTP will identify such people, and classify them as 'vulnerable' or 'non-
vulneralble' depending on their socio-economic status recorded during the project's socio-
economic survey.
Losses of this nature are expected to be of a temporary nature. The amouilt of such losses
vary from case to case, depending on previous incomes, length of dislocation, and other
factors. For both legal and verbal agreements, the legal owners/mortgag,ses/leaselholders
will be paid compensation to be shared between the entitled parties according to their rights
15



in their contract and /or agreement. A one-time transition allowance for temporary loss of
income will be paid by the project to the mortgagee or leaseholder of the mortgaged or the
leased property (land, structure, or other asset) of 25% of the previous one year's net
business income derived from legal business activities of the mortgagee or leaseholder
directly associated with the occupancy of the affected mortgaged or leased property. This
amount will be prorated based on the period of dislocation.
In the instance whiere GDTPCB determines CUL payment that is smaller than the
replacement value of the mortgaged or leased property, the legal owner will get the
difference as an additional payment from the project, if liabilities are already paid up. If the
liabilities are not paidl up, the legal owner will only get the residual after all liabilities are paid
up. The 'vulnerable' mortgagees and leaseholders will also be offered the compensation
option of payment-in-kind by the GDTPCB.
2.5.5 Loss of livelihood or income from business activities (Categories 6. and 7.)
In some cases, the displacement caused by the project will lead to loss of livelihood or
income opportunities, either temporarily or permanently. In such cases, assistance will be
given to the affected population of business activities to re-establish their livelihood
and income, and to compensate for the temporary loss of income of their wage
earning employees.
For the project, affected business owners, owner-operators and operators are classified as
"non-vulnerable". On the other hand, their wage earning employees are considered
"vulnerable" due to their low socio-economic status in Bangladesh society and the difficulty
they may have in obtaining alternative employment. The entitlement unit eligible for
assistance in categories 6 and 7 will be the adult individual, both men and women, or the
adult individual on behalf of the private companies they represent.
For business owner-operators and business operators (franchisees), cash compensation
will be paid by the 1GDTPCB for loss of affected business net income, as determined by
the GDTPCB, based on their current average annual net income pro-rated for sixty days;
plus a one-time moving grant equivalent to compensation for their regular daily wage rate x
120 days.
For business owners who are not owner-operators (i.e. business owners who are
franchisers), they will be compensated in cash by the GDTPCB only for their direct loss of
affected business; net income, as determined by GDTPCB, based on their average direct
annual income pro-rated for sixty days.
For "vulnerable" wage earning employees of affected businesses, compensation for
temporary loss of income will apply only to people not categorised as business owners,
business owner-operators or business operators. The employee must be currently
employed in the affected business activity, and must have been employed for at least six
months in the twelve month period by the business activity's employer immediately prior to
the project's compensation entitlement cut-off date.
Compensation for these "vulnerable" wage eaming employees will include a cash grant
paid by the GDTPCB to cover temporary loss of regular wage income, as determined by
the GDTPCB at the time of the project's compensation entitlement cut-off date. This
16



compensation will be equivalent to his or her regular daily wage rate x 120 days: plus
assistance from the GDTPCB in re-establishing and improving their previous livelihood
through free vocational training and advice provided by the GDTPCE, and possibly
organized by NGOs (as explained further in chapter 8 and section 10.4), with priority
access for those trainees to commercial loans from financial institutions faicilitated by the
GDTPCB; plus assistance as required through counselling provided by the GDTPCB
including free advice on altemative employment opportunities, with follow-up, throughout the
project implementation period.
2.5.6 Temporary loss of livelihood or income from business activities (Category 8.)
Some hawkers and vendors operating on both private and public land (encroachers) will be
displaced by the project resulting in a temporary loss of livelihood or income opportunities.
In such cases, assistance will be given to the affected owner-operator<; of permanent
stalls a[nd static semi-permanent stalls and their wage earning employees and
helpers.
For the project, these affected owner-operators and their employees and helpers are
classified as "vulnerable" due to their low socio-economic status within Bangladesh society,
and difficulties they may have in re-establishing their livelihood andi income after
displacement. The affected Category 8 owner-operators, employees and helpers have
been previously identified by the project, their stalls pholtograplied, and their
identities recorded during the project's socio-economic survey.
Compensation for these owner-operators will include a cash grant paid by the GDTFPCB to
cover temporary loss of net business income, as determined by the GDTPCB at the
time of the project's compensation entitlement cut-off date. This; compensation will be
based on their current average annual net income pro-rated for thirty days, plus a one-time
moving assistance as determined by the GDPTCB equivalent to compensation for their
regular daily wage rate x 60 days; plus assistance from the GDPTCB in re-establishing and
improving their previous livelihood; plus assistance as required thrcugh counselling
provided by GDTPCB, with follow-up throughout the project implemientation period.
Compensation for the wage earning employees or helpers of these owner-operators will
include a cash grant paid by the GDTPCB to cover temporary loss of regular wage
income, as determined by the GDTPCB equivalent to their regular daily wage rate x 30
days; plus assistance from the GDPTCB in re-establishing and improving their previous
livelihood through free vocational training and advice provided by the GDTPCB and
organized by NGOs, with priority access for those trainees to commercial loans from
financial institutions facilitated by the GDTPCB; plus assistance as required through
counselling provided by the GDTPCB, including free advice on alternative employment
opportunities, with follow-up throughout the project implementation period.
2.5.7 Loss of rental income (Category 9.)
Some landlords will be affected by the displacement of people from lancl and structures in
the project's area of impact, resulting in their loss of rental income. Therefore, the project
will compensate owners of legally rented property for loss of rental income as a
direct result of the project's implementation.
These affected landlords are classified by the project as "non-vulnerable". They include
17



owners of affected legally rented private land, rented private non-residential premises and
rented private residential premises as determined by the GDTPCB through the project's
socio-economic survey.
Their compensation will be a cash grant paid by the GDTPCB equivalent to four months
current rent based on the average monthly rental incurred over the four month period
immediately preceding the project's compensation entitlement cut-off date, as determined
by the GDTPCB.
2.5.8 Loss of diminished livelihood from any other impacts not yet identified
(Category 10.)
Other impacts not able to be identified during the project's socio-economic surveys may
entitle some people to some other form of compensation. Category 10 allows for other
impacts to be mitigated by the project based on the same principles for impact
entitlement detailed in the project's Entitlement Policy Framework matrix. The nature
of such entitlements and support mechanisms shall be approved by the Bangladesh
Government and International Development Association (IDA) prior to any compensation
being agreed by the GDTPCB.
2.5.9 Loss of indirect, group-based livelihood means (Category 11.)
In addition to the direct losses and assets or livelihood opportunities, the project Vill have
indirect impacts on people living or working in the vicinity of the direct impact area. Many of
these impacts are positive. They include:
- increased passenger capacity for women in the motorized transport
* increased personal safety during travel for children, elderly and women
* increased number of buses on the roads
* training of non-motorized transport operators on traffic rules and regulations
* improved networks for non-motorized transport
Support to these groups represent community enhancements. This has been planned as
separate components of the project, and is not discussed in detail in the Resettlement
Action Plan. The RAP focuses on those impacts which are negative and require mitigation.
Such impacts are! collective in nature, and group members need not be individually
registered. Gains and losses are not quantifiable in terms of impacts on the individual.
Mitigation and support mechanisms will be collectively oriented, and the manitoring of these
development efforts will study the impacts and benefits for the groups involved.
The project will focus on support to vulnerable groups in this category. The initial surveys
and social assessiment studies have identified two main categories requiring assistance
under the project:
hawkcers and street vendors without fixed structures or stalls
*    rickshaw-operators who lose access to some routes
Non-stall vendors/thawkers may suffer a temporary loss in connection with their move; time
required to build up a new customer base; and additional expenses related to paying fees
18



(official or unofficial) to local authorities and the local power-holders known as mastans
controlling specific sites. Losses may also be of a non-monetary nature, such as the
disruption of local networks.
Rickshaw operators and other non-motorized transport (push carts, etc.) rnay tempDrarily
find a decline or loss of customers due closing of certain roads to their operation, or to
increaseid availability and passenger capacity of motorized transport in the main arteries of
the roads. This may lead to temporary losses.
In order to overcome the negative impacts of the project, the project will provide benefits
targeted at these groups, to offset any indirect losses caused by the project. This will
include:
* provision of serviced mid-block roadside areas for displaced non-stall hawkers and
non-motorized operators
*  provision of safety measures for affected pedestrians, particularly the elderly,
women and children
* restoration and improvement of displaced common property resources etc.
Details on restoration in-kind of lost livelihood means as determined by the project are
providecl in the Entitlement Policy Framework. Any disputes over the status of entitled
collectivie groups will be resolved through the grievance redress procedures.
2.6   Entitlement policy framework matrix
The project's Entitlement Policy Framework for Resettlement and Rehiabilitation of Project
Affected Persons for all of the categories and sub-categories of impact is provided in the matrix
on the following pages of this document. In summary, it contains the following categories and sub-
categories for A. loss of land and other assets, B. lost or diminished livelihood, and C. indirect
group-oriented impacts:-
A.   AREAS OF IMPACT: LOSS OF LAND AND OTHER ASSETS
Category 1. Loss of Land and Trees Thereon
1.1 used as non-residential land (commercial etc.) (N-V)
1.2 used as residential land (N-V)
1.3 that is idle/vacant/open land (N-V)
Category 2. Loss of Non-Residential and Associated Structures
2.1 on private land' - Non-shiftable (V/N-V)
- Shiftable (VIN-V)
2.2 on public land' - Non-shiftable (V/N-V)
- Shiftable (V/N-V)
Category 3. Loss of Residential and Associated Structures
Including permanent and semi-permanent roadside stalls.
19



3.1 on private land2 -  Non-shiftable (V/N-V)
-  Shiftable (V/N-V)
3.2 on public land2  -  Non-shiftable (V/N-V)
- Shiftable (V/N-V)
Category 4. Loss of Other Non-Structure Assets
4.1 on private land - Non-shiftable (V/N-V)
- Shiftable (VJN-V)
4.2 on public land   -  Non-shiftable (V/N-V)
- Shiftable (V/N-V)
Category 5. Loss of Usufruct Rights through Mortgage or Lease
5.1 with a legal agreement (V/N-V)
5.2 with a verbal agreement (V/N-V)
B.   AREA OF IMPACT: LOST OR DIMINISHED LIVELIHOOD
Category 6. Loss of Income from Displaced Business Activity
6.1 of business owner-operator (N-V)
6.2 of business operator only (franchisee) (N-V)
6.3 of business owner only (franchisor) (N-V)
Category 7. Temporary L-oss of Other Business Activity Income (business wage earners)
7.1 of wage earner (excludes Category 6.) (V)
Category 8. Temporary l oss of Income from Displaced Business Activity (permanent/semi-
permanent stalls)
8.1 of business owner-operator (V)
8.2 of wage earner (V)
Category 9. Loss of Income from Rented Private Land and Private Premises
9.1 of owner of rented non-residential premises (N-V)
9.2 of owner of rented residential premises (N-V)
9.3 of owner of rented land (N-V)
Category 10. Loss of Lost or Diminished Livelihood from Any Other Impact Not Yet Identified
10.1 of impactee (households and adult individuals, men and women)
(V/NI-V)
2. Including squatters.
V = Vulnerable; N-V Non - Vulnerable
20



C.   VICINITY OF IMPACT: INDIRECT GROUP-ORIENTED IMPACTS
Category 11. Loss of Some Livelihood Means due to Collective impact(s)
11..1 of collective group (including non-stall hawkers, rickshaw pullers,
beggars, etc. (V/N-V)
21



DHAKA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Draft Entitlement Policy Framework for Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected
Persons
(Version: 28106198)
A. AREA OF IMPACT: LOSS OF LAND AND OTHER ASSETS. Support given to adult
individuals, families and households.
Category 1: Loss of land and trees thereon
Sub-Category          Entitlement Unit   Entitlement              Details
1.1  Loss of non-     Owner(s) as       a) CUL which includes     a)  Landowner(s)  (and
residential      determined by         50% land premium, or      others)   will  be
(commercial etc.)  Deputy              value of equivalent       informed   of  the
land and any trees  Commissioner (DC)  replacement non-          details   of  their
thereon, being   during the process    residential land          entitlement(s),
actively used for   of CUL             determined by the         including       the
it's non-residential  (compensation    Greater Dhaka                 .      .
purpose (and not  under the law)       Transport Planning and    provision for stamp
idle/vacantVopen    payment and/or as  Coordination Board        duty   refund   on
land, sub-       determined by         (GDTPCB), whichever       equivalent
category 1.3):   court in cases of     is the greater.           replacement  land,
non-vulnerable    legal disputes.                                by  GDTPCB  after
persons.                                                         issuance of Notice
3.
b) Stamp duties on       b)  Current      market
equivalent replacement   prices of equivalent
land if purchased within  replacement   land
12 months or during      will be determined
the implementation        by GDTPCB  on a
period, whichever is      byuz GDPC   ond bas.
_______________ the longer.moz-wiebs.
1.2  Loss of residential  As above for 1.1    a) As for 1.1 a) above, but c)  Current  market
land and any trees                     for replacement           prices of equivalent
thereon, being                         residential land.         replacement   land
actively used for                                                determined       by
it's residential                                                 GDTPCB will be the
purpose (and not                                                 basis            for
idle/vacant/open
land, sub-category
1.3): non-                                                       replacement   land
vulnerable                                                        value by GDTPCB;
persons.                                                         they will be updated
annually during the
lifetime    of   the
project to reflect real
. _______________  ______________________       m arket  value.
22



1.2 Cont'd                              b)  as for 1.1 b) above  d)  Owners  will  be
ass sted       by
GDTPCB on any
issues that might
prevent their timely
receipt  of  CUL
after issuance of
Notice 3.
1.3  Loss of         As above for 1.1    a)  as for 1.1 a) above,    e)  Defacto  legal
idle/vacantVopen                        but for                  owners  will  be
land and any trees                     idle/vacant/open          assisted       by
thereon: non-                           replacement land.        GDI'PCB         to
vulnerable                                                       establish
persons.                                                         appropriate  legal
evidence       of
ownership   after
Notice 3 is served.
b)  as for 1.1 b) above.    f)  Where applicable,
where         the
equivalent
replacement land
value  determined
by      GDTPCB
exceeds the CUL,
the difference will
be    paid    by
GDTPCB.
g)  Where applicable,
the   refund   of
starmp duties for
equivalent
replacement land
will be paid by
GDTPCB;        to
qualify for a refund
of stamp duties the
replacement land
must          be
purchased within
12   months   of
issuance of Notice
3 ar during the
implementation
period, whichever
is longer.
23



Category 2: Loss of non-residential and associated structures
Sub-Category           Entitlement Unit        Entitlement                Details
2.1  Loss of non-     Owner(s) of         a)  For non-shiftable     a)  Applicable  to  all
residential or    strjcture as            structure, CUL which       structures standing
associated        determined by DC        includes 50%               on  the  required
structure on      during the CUL          premium, or the           lands at the time of
private land:     payment process,        replacement value as      issuance of Notice
vulnerable and    or socially             determined by             3
non-vulnerable    recognized              GDTPCB, whichever
persons.          owner(s) as            is the greater.
recognized by
GDTPCB.
b)  For shiftable         b)   Owner(s)      (and
structure, Structure      others)   will  be
Transfer Grant (STG)      informed   of  the
which is one-eighth       details   of  their
of the replacement
cost if the structure is  entitlement      by
shifted, or the           GDTPCB        after
replacement value         issuance of Notice
determined by             3.
GDTPCB if the
shiftable structure is
unable to be shifted
by owner.
c)  Owner will be         c)   GDTPCB will verify
permitted to retain       floor  areas  and
the salvageable           materials based on
building materials of     DUTP   II  socio-
non-shiftable             economic   survey
.  structure.             (SES)  data,  and
GDTPCB         will
assess         the
replacement value
of structures.
d)  Structure             d)   SCG  of Tk. 3.500
Construction Grant        payable         by
(SCG) for vulnerable      GDTPCB  will be
PAPs only, at the         paid when owner is
time of actual            ready   to   start
construction of           construction of new
replacement               structure.
structure.
2.2  Loss of non-     As above for 2.1    a)  as for 2.1 a) above.    e)  as for 1 b) Details.
residential or
associated
structure on public
land : vulnerable
and non-
vulnerable
persons.
24



2.2  Cont'd                             b)  as for 2.1 b) above.    f)  Where applicable,
wheare        the
entitlement    is
greater than  the
amount assessed
by the DC;, the
difference will be
paid by GPTPCB
c)  as for 2.1 c) above.    g)  GOTPCB      will
make an additional
payment for non-
shiftable structures
which will cover
the shortfall in the
replacement: cost
of the materials
and erection as
determined    by
GDTPCB, over the
payment made by
the DC.
d)  as for 2.1 d) above.    h)  Compensation
must  be   paid
before the owner
dismantles   and
nmoves
salvageable
tiuilding materials.
i)  (3DTPCB       will
establish the cut-
off date in lieu of
i:he issuance of
INotice  3 for all
structures    not
recognized by the
DC            as
compensationable
a_____________________        under the   law.
25



CATEGORY 3: Loss OF RESIDENTIAL AND ASSOCIATED STRUCTURES
Sub-Category          Entiitlement Unit   Entitlement                      Details
3.1  Loss of residential  Owner(s) of    a)   For non-shiftable    a)    as for 2 a) Details.
or associated     structure as            structure, CUL which
structure on      determined by DC       includes 50%
private land:    during the CUL           premium, or the
vulnerable and    payment process,        replacement value as
non-vulnerable    or socially             determined by
persons.         recognized               GDTPCB, whichever
owner(s) as            is the greater.
recognized by
GDTPCB.
b)   For shiftable       b)    as for 2 b) Details.
structures, House
Transfer Grant (HTG)
which is one-eighth
of the replacement
cost if the structure is
shifted, or
replacement value
determined by
GDTPCB if the
shiftable structure is
unable to be shifted
by owner.
c)  Owner will be        c)   as for 2 c) Details.
permitted to retain
the salvageable
building materials of
non-shiftable
structure.
d)  House Construction    d)   HCG of Tk. 3,500
Grant (HCG) for           payable         by
vulnerable PAPs           GDTPCB  will be
only, at the time of      paid when owner
actual construction of    is ready to start
a replacement house.      construction    of
new house.
e)  Squatters will be     e)   as for 2 e) Details.
provided 0.5 decimal
khas land, if no khas
land available a cash
compensation
equivalent to the
value of 0.5 decimal
khas land to be
determined by
GDTPCB.
26



3.2  Loss of residential  as above for 3.1   a)   as for 3.1 a) above.    f)   as for 2 f) Deltails.
or associated
structure on public
land: vulnerable
and non-
vulnerable
persons.
b)  as for 3.1 b) above.    g)   as   for   2   g)
Details.
c)  as for 3.1 c) above.    h)   as   for   2   h)
Details.
d)  as for 3.1 d) above.    i)   as ibr 2 i) Det:ails.
e)  as for 3.1 e) abave.
27



Category 4: Loss of other non-structure assets
Sub-Category            Entitlement Unit          Entitlement                 Details
4.1  Loss of other non-  Ownier(s) of asset   a)   For non-shiftable   a)    as for 2 a) Details.
structure asset on   as determined by       asset, estimated
private land:      DC during the CUL        current CUL value, or
vulnerable and     payment process,         the replacement
non-vulnerable     or socially              value of the asset, as
persons.          recognized                determined by
owner(s) as              GDTPCB, whichever
recognized by            is the greater.
GDTPCB.
b)   For shiftable asset,   b)    as for 2 b) Details.
one-eighth of the
estimated current
replacement cost if
the asset is shifted,
or replacement value
determined by
GDTPCB if the
shiftable asset is
unable to be shifted
by owner.
4.2  Loss of other non-  As above for 4.1   a)  as for 4.1 a) above     c)   GDTPCB          will
structure asset on                                                      verify         the
public land:                                                            existence  of the
vulnerable and                                                          assets  and   will
non-vulnerable                                                          assess         the
persons.                                                                replacement value
of the assets.
b)  as for 4.1 b) above    d)  -as for I d) Details.
e)   as for 2 f) Details.
f)   as for 2 i) Details,
but for other non-
. ____________________ .______________      _______________________           structure    assests.
28



Category 5: Loss of usufruct rights through mortgage or lease
Sub-Category         Entitlement Unit       Entitlement               Details
5.1  Loss of usufruct  All legal parties to  a)  For loss of private    a)    GDTPC13 will identify,
right through   the contractual        land, compensation        by checking with
mortgage or     arrangement,           as per Category 1         each lecial owner and
lease with a    whether legal          above to be shared        others, any persons
legal agreement  owner, mortgagee      between the entitled      who currently havp e
: vulnerable and  or leaseholder.     parties according to       an  curent in
non-vulnerable                        the usufruct contract.     an interest in
persons.                                                         requiredl land,
structures or other
assets due to
mortgacge or lease
rights.
b)  For loss of non-    b)    Any disputes over
government                usufruct status or
structures and other      rights of current
non-government            interests in the
non-land assets,          required land
compensation as per       structuires or other
Categories 2,3 and 4      asstrutrs  orl oter
above to be shared        assets will be
between the entitled      resolved through
parties according to      grievance redressal
the usufruct contract.    procedures. Once
resolved, GDTPCB
will ensure payment
of all outstanding
liabilities on the
mortgaged or leased
land, structures or
assets to the
appropriate persons.
c)  Where CUL is         c)  Where   applicable,
smaller than the          vulnerable  affected
replacement value of      mortgagees      and
the mortgaged or          leasehlolders will be
leased land, structure    offered the option of
or other asset as         payment in kind by
determined by the         GDTPCB,          and
GDTPCB, the legalpesadtocet
owner will get the        persuaded to accept
difference as an          this   compensation
additional payment        option at focus group
from GDTPCB (i)           meetings   arranged
only if all liabilities   by GDTPCB.
are already paid up;
(ii) if not, the legal
owner will get the
residual only after all
liabilities are paid up.
29



5.1  Cont'd                                d)  Transition allowance
for temporary loss of
income will be paid
by GDTPCB to the
mortgagee or
leaseholder of the
mortgaged or leased
property (land,
structure or other
asset) as determined
by GDTPCB, at 25%
of the previous one
year's business
income derived from
legal business
activities of the
mortgagee or
leaseholder directly
associated with the
occupancy of the
affected mortgaged
or leased property.
5.2  Loss of usufruct    All socially     a)   as for,5.1 a) above,
right through     recognized parties       but according to their
mortgage or lease  to the verbal           rights in the verbal
with a verbal     agreement as             agreement as
agreement:        recognized by            determined and
vulnerable and    GDTPCB, whether          recognized by
non-vulnerable    owiner, mortgagee        GDTPCB.
persons.          or leaseholder.
b)   as for 5.1 b) above,
but according to their
rights in the verbal
agreement as
determined and
recognized by
GDTPCB.
c)  as for 5.1 c) above
._____________  ______________  d)  as  for  5.1    d)  above
30



B. AREA OF IMPACT: LOST OR DIMINISHED LIVELIHOOD. Support given tc adult
individuals, men and women.
Category 6: Loss of income from displaced business activity                            =
Sub-Category          Entitlement Unit         Entitlement               Details
6.1  Loss of income    Business owner-  a)     Compensation for   a)     Applicable to all
from displaced    operator(s) as         loss of affected           affected
business activity of determined by        business income to        businesses
business owner-   GDTPCB at the           the business              operating on tlhe
operator: non-    time of issuance        owner-operator as         required lands at
vulnerable        of Notice 3 on the      determined by             the -time of
persons.         premises in which        GDTPCB based on           issuance of
they operate.          the business
owner-operator's          Notice 3 on the
current average           prernises in
annual income pro-        which they
rated for sixty days.     operate.
b)    One-time moving    b)      GD-rPCB will
assistance as             verily the legality
determined by             of all business
GDTPCB                    own er-operators
equivalent to             /operatorslowner
compensation for          s based on
regular daily wage        DU71P I  SES
rate x 120 days.          data, and will
infoirmn them of
the details of
their entitleme.nt
after issuance of
Notice 3 on their
premises.
6.2  Loss of income   As for 6.1 above,  a)    as for 6.1 a) above, c)   Business owrier-
from displaced    but for legal           but for business          operators/
business activity of business             operator                  operators/owner
business operator  operator(s).          (franchisee)/income        s will be assisted
only (franchisee):                                                  by GDTPCB on
non-vulnerable
any issues that
persons.                                                            might preveni:
the.ir timely
receipt of
conmpensation
afte r issuancea of
Nol:ice 3 on their
premises.
b)   as for 6.1 b) above.   d)   Any    disputes
ove,r the status of
the      enl:itled
business owner-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _operator/operato
31



r/owner will be
resolved through
grievance
redressal
procedures.
6.3  Loss of income   As for 6.1 above,  a)    as for 6.1 a) above, e)   Monetary
from displaced    but for legal           but for business           compensation will
business activity of business             owner                     be in the form of a
business owner    owner(s).               (franchisor)/income.      cash  grant paid
only (franchisor):                                                  by GDTPCB.
non-vulnerable
persons._
32



Category 7: TemFporary loss of other business activity income (business wage earners)
Sub-Category     Entitlement Unit            Entitlement            Details
7.1  Temporary   Wage earner not covered  a) Cash grant to cover  a) Applicable to all affected
loss of other by Category 6. as  .     temporary loss of       businesse,s operating on
business    determined by GDTPCB       affected regular        the required lands Eat the
activity    at the time of issuance of  wage income as         time of issuance of
income of   Notice 3 on the premises   determined by           Notice 3 cn the prernises
wage earner in which they are          GDTPCB equivalent      in which they are
: vulnerable  employed, and who is     to regular daily wage   employed,
persons.    currently employed and     rate x 120 days.        empoyed
has been employed for at
least six months in the
twelve month period by
the business activity's
employer immediately
preceding the issuance
of Notice 3.
b) Assistance from     b) GDTPCB will deter-nine
GDTPCB in re-          and verify the lenglh of
establishing and       employment of all vwage
improving previous     earners baised on DUTP
livelihood.            11 SES  data, and will
inform and assist them
with the details of their
entitlement       after
issuance of Notice 23 on
their premises.
c) Assistance as       c) as for 6 e) Details.
required through
counselling provided
by GDTPCB, with
follow-up throughout
the project
implementation
period.
d) GDTPCB vill undentake
a   risk   anaiysis  of
benesfits   and    costs
involved   in  different
support mechanisms, for
vulnerable        wage
earners,   and    offer
different  options  and
choices   to   affected
persons.       _
33



Category 8 :Temporary loss of income from displaced business activity (permanent/semi-permanent
stalls)
Sub-Category           Entitlement Unit    Entitlement               Details
8.1  Temporary loss of   Owner-operator of   a)  Compensation for    a) Applicable to all
income from       static or semi-static   temporary loss of         affected static and
displaced business  operated permanent    affected business         semi-static operated
activity of business  stall, or static   income as determined      permanent stalls
owner-operator:    operated semi-         by GDTPCB based on       and static operated
vulnerable persons. permanent stall as    current average annual   semi-permanent
determined by         income pro-rated for       stalls on the
GIDTPCB at the time    thirty days.             reqire ln     ath
of the designated                                required lands at the
entitlement cut-off                             time of the
date.'                                          designated
entitlement cut-off
date.
b) One-time moving       b) GDTPCB will
assistance as            determine and verify
determined by            the identify of the
GDPTCB equivalent to     entitled owner-
compensation for         oeaosadwg
regular daily wage rate  operators and wage
x 60 days.  ~earners based on
x 60 days.               DUTP 11 SES data,
and will inform and
assist them with the
details of their
entitlement after the
designated
entitlement cut-off
date.
c)  as for Category 7.1 b)  c)  as for 6 e) Details.
entitlement.
d)  as for Category 7.1 c)  d) as for 7 d) Details.
_______________     entitlement.
8.2  Temporary loss of  Wcge eamer of      a)  Cash grant to cover
income from       static or semi-static   temporary loss of
displaced business  operated permanent    affected regular-wage
activity of wage  stall, or static       income as determined
earner: vulnerable  operated semi-        by GDTPCB equivalent
groups.           permanent stall as      to regular daily wage
determined by          rate x 30 days.
GDTPCB and not
covered by sub-
category 8.1, at the
time of the
designated
entitlement cut-off
date.
b) as for Category 7.1 b)
entitlement.
c) as for Category 7.1 c)
34



entitlement.         l_ _
Category 9: Loss of income from  rented private land and private premises _
Sub-Category            Entitlement Unit        Entitlement               Deltails
9.1  Loss of income of   Owner of the rented  a)  Cash grant equivalent  a)  Applicable to all
owner of rented    non-residential        to four months current     legally rentecl
private non*-      premises as             rent as determined by     priv'ate non-
residential       determined by            GDTPCB for rented         residential/reside
premises: non-     GDTPCB at the time      private non-residential   ntidl premises
vulnerable persons. of issuance of         premises based on         a   r
Notice 3.              the average monthly        and rented pirivate
rental incurred over     land on the
the four-month period     required lands at
immediately preceding    the time of
the date of issuance of  issuance of
Notice 3.                 Notice 3.
9.2  Loss of income of   As for 9.1 above, but a)  as for 9.1 a) above,    b)  GDTPCB will
owner of rented    for residential         but for residential       delermine and
private residential   premises.            premises.                 verify the identify
premises: non-                                                       all the entitleid
vulnerable persons.                                                  owners and the
rental amount
based on DLITP II
SES data, and
will inform and
assist them with
details of their
entitlement grant
after issuance of
____________________                       _ _Notice   3.
9.3  Loss of income of   As for 9.1 above, but a)  as for 9.1 a) above,    c)  Any disputes over
owner of rented    for private land.       but for private land.    the status of the
private land : non-                                                  entitled owner will
vulnerable persons.                                                  be resolved
through grievance
redressal
.___ ____ ____ ____   __ _ __ _ _procedures.
35



Category 10: Lost or diminished livelihood from any other impacts not yet identified.
Sub-Category           Entitlement Unit        Entitlement                Details
10.1  Lost or          Owners and socially  a)  Other impacts, not yet   a)   Details to be
diminished      recognized owners       identified by surveys,      determined by
livelihood of other as recognized by    shall be mitigated based    GDTPCB for
impactee:       GDTPCB at the time      on the same principles      acceptance by
vulnerable and    of the designated     for impact entitlements    the GOB and
non-vulner-able   entitlement cut-off   described in the DUTP      IDA.
persons and     date.                   Entitlement Policy
groups.                                 Framework matrix. The
nature of entitlements
and support
mechanisms shall be
approved by the GOB
and IDA.
b)  Impacts to be
dealt with by
GDTPCB on a
case by case
basis    upon
acceptance by
the GOB and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  ID A .
36



C. VICINITY OF IMPACT: INDIRECT GROUP-ORIENTED IMPACTS. Support
given to collective groups.
Category 11: Loss of some livelihood means due to collective impact(s).
Sub-Category           Entitlement Unit         Entitlement                  Details
11.1  Loss of some     Local socially      a)  Restoration in-kind of lost  a)  SDTPCB will
livelihood means  recognized group as    livelihood means as          determine and
of collective   recognized by            determined by GDTPCB,        verify the
group due to     GDTPCB at the time      e.g.                         identify of the
collective       of the designated                                   -affected entitled
impact(s)        entitlement cut-off     - provision of serviced       feroues (enil
vulnerable and    date.                    mid-block roadside         3       (e.g
non-vulnerable                             areas for displaced non-   non-stall
groups.                                    stall hawkers and          hawkers,
rickshaws,                rickshaw
- provision of clean and    pullers, beggars
safe public space and     etc.) and the
access/egress for         extent of their
affected business, local  loss of livelihood
transport and public use,  means based
- provision of safety       on DUTP II SES
measures for affected     data, and will
pedestrians, particularly  data, andi
the elderly, women, and   inform and
children,                 assist them with
- provision of improved     details of their
access and                in-kind
opportunities for         entitlement at
affected disabled         the time of the
people,                   designated
- provision for women's     entitlement cut-
needs not currently       off date.
provided for,
- restoration and
improvement of
displaced community
assets/facilities, and
- restoration and
improvement of
displaced common
property resources.
b) Any    clisputes
over the status
of the entitled
collective
groups will be
resolved
through
grievanca
redressal
_ ______  procedures.
37



3. AREAS OF IMPACT
Displacement of project affected persons (PAPs) under the DUTP will be limited to the
areas required for the new ROWs and other project sites for the various DUTP
components. In this RAP these areas are referred to as the Areas of Impact. Within these
areas, there cannot be any structures or other hindrances other than the transport infrastructure
being implemented. The physical components of the project have been designed to limit the
need for displacement and resettlement as much as possible, by restricting those
improvements to existing ROWs and on lands owned by the Government, Dhaka City Corporation
(DCC), RAJUK and other government agencies, or by minimizing acquisition of private lands
abuKting the existing ROWs. As such, DUTP has carefully avoided situations which would
otherwise result in severe loss of use or access to properties and activities abutting certain Areas
of Impact.
Within some ROWs where widening cannot be avoided, options exist for expansion onto public or
private lands on either sidie of the ROW. In all such cases, private land acquisition has been
avoided where possible in preference to public lands. This principle has been applied to the
DUTP project sites, such as the Gabtoli Inter-District Bus Terminal where a southerly and westerly
expansion of the existing site is proposed onto land currently under the ownership of DCC.
Nevertheless, some private land acquisition is unavoidable with some of the other DUTP
component sites.
The project will ensure that all displaced PAPs within the project's Areas of Impact are
appropriately compensated in accordance with the project's entitlement policy. The project
will not be viable if compensation is paid to individuals claiming adverse indirect impact in areas
adjacent to the proposed new ROWs. Due to this fact and the density and magnitude of structures
and activities abutting many project sites, the project's Areas of Impact will not be extended to
cover those persons immediately outside an Area of Impact and might claim to be
indirectly but adversely affected by the project. There will be many positive social indirect
impacts on individuals in tlhe areas adjacent to the project's impact areas, as explained in section
2.5.9 and the last paragraph of section 5.1.
Vulnerable groups, such as hawkers and roadside vendors, beggars, etc. mostly operate on a
temporary basis within an impact area or an existing ROW. Such groups will be provided,
wherever needed, compensation-in-kind in the form of an alternative location outside the project's
impact areas to carry on their activities. Based on its previous experience in this regard, DCC will
be responsible for the identification of such alternative locations. Relocation of these groups away
from an Area of Impact is crucial to the success of the DUTP, as their current activities are
severely hindering the flovv of traffic at the majority of the project sites.
4. PHASED APPROACH
The DUTP project components have been divided into two packages of works. As stated
previously, the first package of works involves virtually no private land acquisition, except for
transfer of some public lainds to DCC and a relatively small amount of demolition and/or removal
of structures on public lands.
Identification of the PAPs associated with the first and second packages of works was undertaken
in conjunction with socioeconomic surveys carried out on DUTP II. The estimate of the PAPs and
38



- - --
the extent of theilr losses were adjusted, where necessary, to accommodate the changes in the
Areas of Impact whilst detailed engineering designs were being finalised under DUTP II. Further
changes and modifications to the designs may as well occur during construction, requiiring
additional updating of the information on PAPs collected at the time of the DUTP socioeconomic
surveys. Therefore, during the project implementation phase, additional studies may have to
be undertaken to update the RAP to accommodate changes in detailed design before or
during construction.
5. SOCIAL ASSESSMENT, CENSUS AND SURVEY
5.1  Social assessment
A social assessrnent was undertaken for the project in order to support participation and ,make
explicit the social factors affecting the development impacts and results. This social
assessment identified stakeholders and key social issues, and enabled the forrmulation ol the
participation and consultation process described in the following chapter 8.
In undertaking it's social assessment, the project engaged separate consultants to review the
work previously undertaken, and to undertake additional studies related to:
a)   the role of women in urban transport,
b)   the role of rickshaws and rickshaw pulilers, and other providers and users of non-
motorised transport (NMT), and
c)   the role of sidewalk vendors and squatters on public land.
There was a continuous dialogue between these consultants and the DUTP II consultant planners
and design engineers whilst the DUTP conceptual layout plans were being finalised, pr'ior to
commencement of detailed engineering design.
The objective of this approach was to minimize associated negative social impacts at the
conceptual design phase of the project. This occurred successfully, particularly iri relation to the
layout designs of the flyovers, intersection improvements, cycle rickshaw routes, road widening,
new link roads and site rehabilitation of existing bus terminals.
The relevance. of previous studies on analogous Bangladesh projects to the DUTP, and their
PAPs is limited. Most of the existing work relates to rural projects which bear little relationship to
transport sector improvements in an urban context. Some recent studies have been undertaken
which address some aspects of social impact of the type expected under DTUP. They atre the
three projects most closely related to this current project, namely:
a)   Greater Dhaka Metropolitan Area Integrated Transport Study, 1994
b)   Dhaka Metropolitan Development Plan (1995-2015)
c)   Dhaka Urban Transport Project-Phase 1, 1996197.
The working papers and final reports of these three projects provide some insight into the potential
socio-economic problems likely to be confronted by DUTP. They refer to other references which,.
in most cases, are outdated and do not warrant further exhaustive review.
Consultations with RAJUK and DCC staff, and Professor Sajjadur Rasheed of the University of
39



Dhaka confirmed many of the observations and concerns described in the reports and working
papers of the three above-mentioned Dhaka urban planning projects. In summary, the key
findings of relevance to DUTP are:
a)  there is little experience in Dhaka of urban squatter resettlement being undertaken in a
systematic manner - which is the intention of the DUTP,
b)  squatters in Dhaka have invariably migrated to the city from distant rural areas, not
necessarily nearby rural areas, nor other urban areas,
c)  adult males in the squatter families tend to work as rickshaw pullers, manual labourers
or hawkers,
d)  adult females in the squatter families tend to work as cleaners, maids, brick crushers or
construction industry labourers,
e)  there is a high incidence of beggars originating from the squatter areas, including
children, physically disabled persons and the elderly,
f)  squatters locate within a reasonable walking distance of where they work to avoid
paying for public transport to and from their place of work,
g)  their everyday life is affected by the influence of "mastans" (muscle men), both in the
workplace and their place of residence,
h)  due to the nature of their business, hawkers at intersections and roadsides tend to be
transient/mobile,
i)  "mastans" control many hawker locations and demand protection money which, given
the choice, they would be prepared and prefer to pay to DCC for a hawker's permit,
j)   there are reports of police also being offered money by hawkers and rickshaw pullers
wanting to operate at city intersections,
k)  there is little experience in Dhaka of the successful relocation of hawkers from
intersection and roadside locations to controlled hawker markets - which is planned by
DU-FP,
I)  protection money purportedly paid by hawkers to "mastans" and police is less than
money required for permits and leases in hawker markets,
m) squatters and hawkers surround hawker markets, thus intercepting potential customers
before they enter the hawker markets,
n)  hawker activities are heavily market demand driven,
o)  less than one third of the rickshaw pullers operating in Dhaka have the  required
permit/licence to operate their rickshaws,
p)  women perceive the existing city-centre footpaths to be crowded and dirty, and
frequently find themselves the subject of verbal and physical harassment when moving
40



around the city, and
q)  women believe they are discriminated against when using public transport and would
appreciate a separate bus service for women and/or a much improved public transport
system sympathetic to their needs.
A social assessment field screening of all the DUTP component sites was unclertaken at the
commencement of DUTP II. The results of this social assessment screening together with location
maps for all of the DUTP component sites surveyed are contained in Appendix 2.
Besides the positive and negative social impacts specific to individual project sites (described in
Appendix 2), there are several significant positive social impacts applicable to all component sites
that will result from the implementation of the DUTP. All users of the traffic; system whether they
be MV or NMV owners, operators, drivers or passengers and all pedestrians will benefit from the
improvements within the Area of Impact of each component. This will occur because of the
reduced traffic congestion inherent in each component improvement. This will be a direc;t and
positive social benefit to those people whose day-to-day activities and livelihoods suffer because
of time lost due to traffic congestion when using the current traffic system. In addition, business
and community service providers who operate in the immediate vicinity of the various proposed
improvements, particularly the intersections, will likewise benefit and experience a positive social
impact because of the improved accessibility of their establishments to their staff and employees,
and to the general public who constitute their clientele and customer base.
5.2   Census and baseline socio-economic survey
A full census and socioeconomic survey was undertaken (please refer to the summary in
Appendix 3) to register and document the status of the PAPs within lthe prcaject's Areas of
Impact. This provides a demographic overview of the likely PAPs, their assets and their main
sources of livelihood.
In undertaking this process, all ROW boundaries have been assumed, based on field surve,ys and
plotting of building frontages to roadways, fencelines, boundary/property walls and property gates.
The extent of impact thus assessed was utilized to modify the engineering designs with a view to
minimizing the project's resettlement impacts. Following finalization of the designs, fresh surveys
were conducted at several work locations where most of the private lands would have to be
acquired.
The baseline socioeconomic survey indicates that only ten residential structures will be alffected
by the project. Three of these are permanent or semi-permanent, and seven are made of
salvageable materials or "kutcha" structures.
Table 5.2.1 provides the summary information on the number of affectees at prcject sites and the
type of hawker stall type, average area and value of the stalls, monthly gross sales, etc. Of all
stalls, 72.7% are of mobile type (Details in Appendix 3).
Table 5.2.2 provides the summary information (Details in Annex 3) on the permanent businesses
in several categories, with monthly gross business income and the average monthly salary paid to
the employees. This data was generated before the designs for the first and second work
packages were finalized and represent maximum of the impacts. On the othear hand, the data
presented in Table 5.2.3 was collected through a fresh survey after the two work packages were
revised to keep the resettlement impacts to a minimum. The four locations of work surveyed so far
41



entail majority of private property acquisition and displacement of more established types of
businesses (Details in Appendix 5). Such detailed surveys would also be done for other work
locations.
The hawkers owning permanent and semi-permanent stalls within the ROW will have to be
removed either for land acquisition or for easing pedestrian movement. They will thus qualify as
PAPs to receive resettlement compensation. Other vendors may be ignored for compensation
because of being transient and occupying no part of footpath or carriageway permanently or in
semi-permanent manner.
42



Table 5.2.1: Summary Information on Hawkers
Hawker Stalls   1 Total # of [  Average   |  Average    Average   1  Average   | Total Affected I # of Vulnerable House- |
Stalls    Operating      Cost of       Monthly    Size of Hawker   Popuation          holds
Area (sft)   Structure (Tk.)   Sales (Tk.)    Household
Permanent            28          56          25,688        52,042        6.67           187                 0
Semi-Permanent    .126           32           6,990        48,769         6.00          756                 3
Others (Mobile)     410          13                   _   28,372          5.69         2,333                5
Table 5.2.2: Summary Information on
Businesses (Non-Residential Establishments)
Average                                                         Average
Total        Monthly                Number of Persons Engaged              Monthly Salary
Business Type         Number       Income (Tk.)   Management        Service          Total             (Tk.)
Retail                       305          60,675           289             746            1,035             1,576
Private Office                6                             4               -               4        _
Personal Services           241          226,084           119            1,061           1,180            2,016
Health Care                   5       __4                                  11              15              2,914
Workshop                      1                             1              -               1
Warehouse                     3            8,750            1               4               5               2,000
Others                       18           20,970            14             42              56               1,715
Total                        579      _432                                1,864           2,296



Table 5.2.3: Summary Information on Businesses
at Four Locations of Major Impacts
#of  | Average   Average #   Average  | Average    Average   Average #      # of   1 Average
Business   Monthly      of      Monthly    Monthly    Family   of Income  Vulnerable  Employee
Locations               Rent    Employees   Income   Salary Paid   Members   Farmers    Owners    Income
(Owner)
Rajarbagh      4        2,950      2.50      30,000      8,833        7          1          0        2,650
Mouchak        20       2,290      5.80      23,875      8,055      8.15        1.45        8         1,389
Mohakhali      7       4,000       7.86      306,000    16,500      7.81         1          1        2,100
Jatrabari      8         NA        3.87        NA        6,937      7.00         1          0         1,790



Similarly, the non-residential establishments (businesses) at project sites within ROVV will require
to be compensated for being losers of livelihood yielding to project interests for either land
acquisition or for easing pedestrian traffic.
Residential structures within ROW are also to be compensated which include two pucca small-
sized living quarters, one semi-pucca structure and seven "Jhupri" type hutments of slum dwellers
on public land. Sinice such types of hutments of slum dwellers are, again, transient, an attract:ive
compensation package of incentive may suffice, including relocation, if feasible.
There was an attempt to assess the incidence of economic vulnerability among the hawkers as
well as more established business owners. For Dhaka city, households with per capita monithly
income lower than Taka 3,500 are considered vulnerable. As Table 2.5.1 shows there are cnly
three vulnerable households among the hawkers owning semi-permanent stalls and five among
those who are mobile. Among those owning more established businesses, eight such households
have been found at Mouchak intersection and one at Mohakhali (Table 2.5.2). It ics to be noted
that per capita income, and as such vulnerability, determined in these studies is nct based on a
household's global income, but only that of the individual hawker or business owner who was
interviewed. These findings will therefore be verified through the Joint Verification exercise
(discussed in chapter 9) during the course of RAP. implementation.
Table 5.2.4 shows the entitlement units (such as, legal and socially-recognized owners of the
affected lands and businesses, salaried employees, and the like). Even though the number of
entitlement units are based on the latest data, they may however change during the course of
verification of legal ownership by DC and joint verification of the iosses that are not covered by the
law.
Tzable 5.2.4: Entitlement Units, Total and Average Compensation
By Entitlement Categories
Entitlement         Entitlement  Total Compensation      Average
Category              Unit           (Taka)       Compensation (Taka)
Land                            10*          29,607,000          2,960,700
Stamp Duty                       10**        19,716,000          1,971,600
Non-residential Est (Business)  579           3,196,053            5,510
Residential Structure            10           3,568,141           356,814
Non-structure Usufruct Rights    -           326,116,087             -
Loss of Business Income         579          74,017,416           127,834
Loss of Wage income             1,864         3,900,596            2,093
Loss of Hawker Income:
Permanent Stalls              28           4,096,203           146,293
Semi-permanent Stalls         126          10,995,709           87,257
Rental Income                    13          31,694,372           243,803
*  Number of landowners may change during DC's investigation of legal ownership records.
Amount allocated for stamp duties is for replacing the entire amount of the land to be accuired, and will be
reimbursed if the replacement lands are purchased by the landowners.
44



The socio-economic survey results (summarised in Appendix 3) provide the baseline
information against which the project's social impacts will be measured and evaluated, as
further explained in chapter 11. The full census and socio-economic survey results have been
published in a separate report by the DUTP.
5.3  Cut-off date
A cut-off date is necessary to prevent speculative incursions into a ROW or other attempts at
speculative gains. To determine who may be entitled to non-CUL entitlements under the
project, the cut-of dates are the dates of the DUTP II census and socioeconomic survey of
each PAP as undertaken by the project during the period January to June 1998. All affected
structures were photographed when surveyed. Therefore, the people moving into the project's
Areas of Impact after these cut-off dates will not be entitled to support.
However, this will not apply to normal changes in property tenure, such as a new owner or tenant
taking over ownership or occupancy between the cut-off date and the date of displacement. In
such cases, the new owner or tenant will be given the support, and not the previous owner or
tenant. Such cases will be evaluated and judged on a case-by-case basis.
CUL entitlements involving private land acquisition will follow the Bangladesh practice of the
issuance of Notice 3 under the Acquisition and Requisition of Immovable Property Ordinance of
1982. The cut-off date for CUL entitlements for nonland assets will be the date of issuance
of Notice 3.
6. CO-ORDINATION BETWEEN CIVIL WORKS AND RESETTLEMENT
6.1 Screening and planning
Efforts have been made to reduce the potential negative impacts of the project, both in terms of
environmental and social issues. The project has co-ordinated the design process with the
findings from screening and studies related to socio-economic impacts and the environment, in
order to minimize negative impacts and maximize benefits. Through this process, the need for
acquisition of land and relocation of people has been kept to a minimum.
When undertaking detailed design, environmental and social constraints and opportunities have
been taken into account along with economic and technical considerations in selecting a preferred
design option. This coordination has been undertaken for example through:
* road alignments have been adjusted to avoid demolition of structures and consequent
resettlement and /or relocation of PAPs and their business activities
* the inter-district bus terminal rehabilitation plans have been adjusted to accommodate existing
on-site non-bus related activities which would otherwise need to be relocated.
For details about this screening process and a description of potential impacts in each of the
proposed projects sites, please refer to Appendix 2, "DUTP Social Assessment Field Screening".
This practice will continue throughout project implementation if and when design modifications
occur.
45



6.2 Implementation
During project implementation, the Resettlement Action Plan will be co-ordinated with the timing of
civil works (please refer to Appendix 4). The project will provided adequalte notification,
counselling and assistance to PAPs so that they are able to move or give up their property and
assets without undue hardship before civil works start. It is estimated that a site involving land
acquisition and resettlement will require close to one year's preparatory work before civil works
can take place. The detailed steps are outlined in the timeline provided in this section, with the
main steps being:
legal procedures for land acquisition, including notification under law
* updating of census data and project plans based on final designs
* consultations with affected population
* issuance of ID cards and agreement on entitlement options
 relocation and payment of compensation
* initiation of other support mechanisms
46



Indicative Schiedule of Resettlement Tasks (activity required at one tvpical site)
I  ] I  I  II  IWeek                             I   _
Tasks & Responsibility               I1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8| 9 1011 | 12 13 14 15 16 17 52
Phase I - RAP Institutions
Establishment
1. IDA Board approval of DUPT loan
2. DCC establish resettlement
organizational structure and RAP
implementation mechanisms
3. DCC prepares acquisition proposail by
Mouza
4. DCC submits proposal, defining impact
area
5. DC approval of LA proposal
6. PIU & NGO update census in impact
area
Phase-2 RAP Consultations and
Eviction Notices
7. Consultations with PAPs about the
project
8. DC gives Section 3 or DCC gives
eviction notice & NGO presents entitlement
options
9. NGO takes photos for ID cards
10. Dcgives Section 6 notice and valuation
of properties begins, NGO group
consultations & community involvement
Phase 3- Issuance of RAP ID Cards
11. DC Section 6 notice, NGO follow-up
consultation and finalize choice of option
12. DC Section 7 notice
13 NGO issues ID cards starting with those
not covered by law, listing options agreed
to on entitlements & support mechanisms
14. PIU updates information on project
impacts & adjust RAP spreadsheets and
budgets
Phase 4- RAP Displacement
15. PIU/NGO implement resettlement:,
including special assistance to vulnerable
16. NGC documents that relocation,
resettlement, compensation & support are
adequate
Phase 5 Civil Works
17. PIU commence works only after RAP
implementation effectively cleared project
site
Phase 6- NGO/PI Monitoring &
Evaluation of Displaced PAPs
47



It is a requirement of the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement that
satisfactory relocation must be completed before awarding a contract for civil works. The
project will ensure that DUTP civil works contracts are not awarded before compensation
and assistance to the PAPs have been provided in accordance with the entitlement piolicy
framework. Civil works award of contract cannot be made until RAP requirements are fully
met.
The normal procedures for land acquisition will be followed in this project. I-or compulsory
acquisition of private land, the Bangladesh Acquisition and Requisition of Immovable Property
Ordinance of 1982 will apply. This ordinance contains rules for the time required from when
people are first notified about the Government's intent to acquire land, to the time people are
required to vacate their holdings.
Resettlement work and updating of environmental and social studies will be a continuous
process throughout the project. The DCC Project Implementation Unit will undertake this while
the DUTP Project Co-ordination Unit will co-ordinate with other agencies and prcject authorities.
Implementation and phasing of land acquisition and the resettlement work will be co-ordinated
with the civil works as detailed in Appendix 4 and outlined in the table on the following page.
detailed in Appendix 4 and outlined in the table on the following page.
7. COSTS AND BUDGETS
Appendix 5 of this Resettlement Action Plan contains a consolidated overview of estimated land
acquisition and resettlement compensation costs. This consists of an item-wise, component-
specific budget estimate for land acquisition and resettlement compensation, the timing of
which relates directly to the activity schedule item timing described in the previous section
6.2 and Appendix 4.
It should be emphasized that there is considerable uncertainty related to this budget.
Physical verification of land and other assets, especially by DC, has not yet taken place. It
is therefore necessary to maintain flexibility in the planning and budgeting process; to
ensure consistent updates as new information becomes available; and to make provision
for reallocations as required. Any such reallocations or changes must be agreed jointly by
GOB and the World Bank.
Additional implementation costs for staff training, NGOs, monitoring and evaluation consultants,
additional socioeconomic surveys and studies, institutional administrative costs aind contingencies
are recorded in the summary table on the following page.
The compensation amounts shown in Appendix 5 are based on the latest information on the
project's impacts that will occur according to the modifications incorporated in the final design, and
reflect the September values. These costs will be adjusted annually based or) annual inflation
factors. The budget cost estimates in the following page incorporates a provision for cost
escalation over the project implementation period. This total cost of lancl acquisition and
resettlement has been included in the overall cost of the project.
The Governrnent of Bangladesh will pay for all costs related to the land and property acquisition,
to enable the transfer of land and property to DCC or RHD for the implemientation of the DUTP. As
well as the resettlement implementation costs described above, other entitlements and support
mechanisms detailed in the entitlement policy framework will be 75% cost shared with funds
48



provided through the expected IDA loan for the DUTP. These include items such as loss of
income compensation, counselling, vocational training for PAPs, etc.
It should be noted that delays or inadequacies in implementing the land acquisition and
resettlement program may lead to costly delays in overall project implementation, since the
commencement of civil works for each project site depends on the satisfactory completion of land
acquisition and resettlemenit associated with each project site.
49



Land Acquisition and Resettlement Summary Budget
Exchange rate:    47.00
Taka                  USD
ITEM                                        GOB             IDA        TOTAL, U'SD      %
A. ACQUISITION OF ULND AND ASSETS
I Land acquisition subtotal                  315,216,000     6,706,723                      6,706,723  67.90%
(Land values have been calculated at an
average of Tk. 30, 000 per square meter)
Structures; compensation and moving assistance
2   Non-residential (private)                  3,196,141       $68,003                        $68,003  0.69%
3   Residential (squatters)                    3,571,641       $75,992                        $75,992  0.77%
4   Other non-strjcture assets                 2,308,706       $49,121                        $49,121  0.50%
B. LOSS OF LIVELIHOOD AND OTHER INCOME
5   Loss of user rights                        4,432,725      $23,578          $70,735       $94,313  0.95%
6   Business incomes (net calculated as 30%   32,744,792      $174,175        $522,523       $696,698  7.05%
of gross)
7   Wage incomes                               3,900,596       $20,747         $62244         $82,991  0.84%
8   Stall incomes (owners and helpers)         5,326,920      $28,335          $85,004      $113,339  1.15%
9   Rental income                             28,441,232      $151,284        $453,849      $605,133  6.12%
10    Other livelihood losses notyetidentified  3,992,130       $21,235         $63,704        $84,939  0.86%
C. IMPACTS ON GROUJPS AND COMMUNITIES
11    Group oriented benefits                   7,123,913      $37,893         $113,680      $151,573  1.53%
D. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS, EVALUATION AND MONITORING, ETC.
Staff training                            5,000,000       $26,596         $79,787       $106,383  1.08%
Additional SES surveys and studies        4,000,000       $21,276         $63,830        $85,'106  0.86%
Staffing and institutional costs         45,000,000      $239,362        $718,085       $957,447  9.69%
TOTAL                                           464,254,796    $7,644,320       $2,233,441    $9,877,761 100.00%
8% Contingency incl Cost escalation      37,140,384       611,546         178,675        790,221  8.00%
GRAND TOTAL                                      501,395,180    $8,255,866      $2,412,116    $10,667,982
Percentage, GOB I IDA                                     77.50%           22.50%
Cost sharing: GOB pays for acquisition of land and private
assets. IDA pays 75% of other costs.
50



8. PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION PROCESS
8.1 Stakeholder participation
Experience indicates that involuntary resettlement and displacement generally give rise to severe
problems for the affected population. These problems may be reduced if, as part of a resettlement
program, people are properly informed and consulted about the project, their situation and
preferences, and allowed to make meaningful choices. They serves to reduce the insecurity and
opposition to the project which are otherwise likely to occur.
The DUTP will therefore ensure that the affected population and other_stakeholders are
informed, consulted in a meaningful way, and allowed to participate actively in the
development process. Thiis will be done throughout the project.
The key Government stakeholders are the implementing agencies of DCC, RHD, BRTA, RAJUK,
DMP and DOE. They have been actively involved with the DTUP II study consultants at
stakeholder workshops and individual agency consultations in formulating the Resettlement Action
Plan, particularly, through a series of nine DUTP Stakeholder Design Review Meetings chaired
by the GOB DUTP Project Preparation Unit Project Director, and held over the period February
1998 to June 1998, as follows:
a)   Preliminary design of flyovers                  14 February' 98
b)   Urban bus route network, and inter-district bus  19/20 April' 98
terminals concept layouts (x2)
c)  NMT underpasses, other route structures for          20 April' 98
NMTs, pedestrian footpaths, and pedestrian
overpasses
d)  The concepts and design principles of the DUTP II    29 April' 98
flyovers
e)  Intersection design principles                        5 May' 98
f)  City centre bus terminals concept design, and the    19 May' 98
principles of en-route bus stop design
g)   Detailed intersection design (x2)              27 May / June' 98
A major stakeholders Reset'tlement Action Plan workshop is proposed before the project becomes
effective, involving the DTUP Public Consultative Committee chaired by the DCC Mayor. This
committee will be attached to the DUTP co-ordination and management organization, the
proposed Greater Dhaka Transport Planning and Co-ordination Board (GDTPCB), when
created.
The project proposes to appoint one or more capable and transparent non-government
organizations (NGOs) to work for the GDTPCB as a link between the project and the affected
population; to develop rmicro-level plans and handle adjustments for resettlement and
rehabilitation in consultation with affected people; to assist PAPs in understanding and getting
their entitlements and benefits; and to help the key Govemment implementing agencies (DCC and
RHD) make arrangements for the smooth removal of PAPs and their structures and businesses
from the project sites. Particular care will be taken in consulting and assisting the more
vulnerable persons and groups affected by the project.
51



The NGO(s) will assist the GDTPCB in providing detailed information to the general public, and
PAPs regarding the consultation and information process. Information about the project will be
released at different stages, repeated and provided through different media. The consultatiorn and
information process proposed for the project will use different techniques including in-depth
interviews, focus group discussions, workshops, seminars and meetings, as well as key informant
interviews at different levels of stakeholder involvement.
8.2 Options and Choices for Project Affected People
The project will provide options and choices for different entitlements available to different
categories of PAPs. As a part of the project consultation and participation process, people will be
informed and consulted about the project and its expected impacts, their entitlements and
options.
Affected people will be counselled so that they are able to make informed choices among the
options, which are described, in the sections 2.5 and 2.6 of the Resettlement Acticn Plan. Where
options are provided, the project will undertake a risk and benefit analysis of each option and
support mechanism, and explain the benefits and potential risks to the affected population. This
will be done particularly in the case of vulnerable individuals and groups, who will be
encouraged to choose the lowest risk options.
By allowing people to choose among different options, the project will seek to makE! people active
participants in the development process, thereby achieving greater acceptance olf the
resettlement aind rehabilitation efforts.
8.3 Information Campaigns
Information campaigns will be undertaken through Zone-level Resettlemeint and Rehabilitation
Sub-Committees, which will be established by the DCC Project Implementaltion Unit and
RHD Project Implementation Unit within each of DCC's zones where the project will be active.
Information campaigns are aimed to ensure fair, equitable and transparent process of
resettlement. The major responsibility of the campaign rests with the Zone-level resettlement and
rehabilitation field supervisor and several resettlement and rehabilitatio'n field workers who will
directly work with the PAPs and their community representatives. They will also liaise with cne or
more capable non-governmental agencies (NGOs) who will be contracted by the project for
providing support to: (i) develop micro-level plans; (ii) handle adjustments for resettlement and
rehabilitation in consultation with affected people; (iii) assist PAPs in understanding and getting
their entitlements and benefits; and (iv) help the key Government implementing agencies (DCC
and RHD) to make arrangements for a smooth resettlement process.
9. GRIEVANCE REDRESS PROCESS
9.1  Valuation Process for Acquired Assets
According to the agreement, all private properties, such as lands; houses and other structures,
trees, etc. buililgrown on both private and public lands; and any user rights (tenancy in business
premises, employees of business establishments, etc.) on the acquired properties; etc., will be
assessed at their replacement costs/current market prices. This will Ibe dorne by the Joint
52



Verification Team (JVT) by using standards that are consistent with the current market prices.
The JVT will not assess the value of the lands and other properties which are khas or presently
owned by any public entities.
DC will also assess the value of all assets according to the 1982 Land Acquisition Law and an
amendment made to it. This is the 'compensation under the law' or CUL to be paid to the legal
owners, as identified by DC according to the records available at his/her office. The DC does not
recognize any private owners who might have assets builtgrown on public lands.
Compensation Payment:
* Legal owners: DC pays the CUL to the legal owners. If the CUL is lower than the replacement
value, DCC pays the balance to the affected owner directly.
* Others: DCC pays all other affected persons whose ownership is not covered by the law.
9.2   Annual Adjustment of Compensation
If the compensation is not paid in the same year of assessment, the value of compensation will be
adjusted upward in accordance to the inflation rate estimated by the Bangladesh Bank.
9.3   Grievance Procedure and Information Dissemination
The information brochure will explain the proposed grievance redress process, the composition
and function of the GRCs; the nature of grievances they would hear; the procedure to file a
complaint, the hearing process, etc. During the joint verification, the JVT will distribute the
brochure to the PAPs and explain how the procedure would work. During consultation and
throughout the acquisition process, the NGO will also distribute the brochure, if needed, and keep
explaining what kind of grievances would be handled by the GRC, how to file grievances, and how
they would be processed. The proposed procedure is as follows: a PAP will fill out (if
needed, the NGO will assist) two copies of the specified application stating the grievance
and hand one copy to the GRC and keep the other copy signed by the person who receives
it on its behalf. The GRC will hold a hearing within 15 days of receipt of a grievance and
the concerned PAP will be informed of the meeting in advance. The GRC will convey the
PAP its findings/decisions/ recommendations in writing and keep records of all individual
grievances received and the decisions given, for review by the consultative committee and
IDA.
It is expected that, through a participatory process and good compensation and support
mechanisms, acceptance of the project will be enhanced and complaints reduced. Nevertheless,
there may be individuals or groups who feel that they are not given adequate support, or that their
needs are not properly addressed.
There is some potential for confusion over the details of land and property ownership records
which may cause PAPs to feel aggrieved over land and property entitlements and CUL
(compensation under the law). Although additional entitlements are specified in this Resettlement
Action Plan in an attempt to overcome previous problems associated with land and property
acquisition in Bangladesh for displacement and resettlement purposes, there may still be disputes
over these additional ent:itlements. The project will therefore establish a Grievance Redress
process with local zonal sub-committees which will hear complaints and facilitate
solutions. When PAPs are first consulted and informed about their entitlements, they must also
53



be informed of their right to mediation and appeal.
The grievance committees must be seen to be impartial, to represent fairly the agencies, and
involved with the implementation, as well as the GDTPCB  and its NG(Os, aind be readily
accessible to the PAPs. The grievance redress process will attempt to settle disputes through
mediation and negotiation, to reduce unnecessary litigation, and in particular to make final
decisions on any disputes concerning additional grants and assistance provided directly by the
GDTPCB on behalf of the project.
Members will Ibe appointed  by the  Project Implementation  Unit Prcject Director to  be
representative of the following:
. NGO implementing partner
  Project authorties
* Project Affected People
 and one irnpartial nominee chosen with the consensus of the other mernbers.
Except for issue!s involving compensation under law (which may be appealed to the courts if not
resolved by the zonal sub-committee) for all other issues, when cases are not resolved by the
zonal sub-committee, they may be appealed to the Project Resettlemenit and Rehabilitation
Committee whose decisions will be legally binding on all parties for issues within their
competence and jurisdiction. The Project committee will be appointed by the Project
Implementation Unit Project Directors to be representative of the following:
* Ward Commissioners
* Project authorities
* Civil Sociely/NGOs
* Project Affected People
* and one impartial nominee chosen with the consensus of the other members.
9.4   Steps for public consultation
The suggested steps for information dissemination and public consultation may be summarized as
follows:
First Stage
Briefing the Zone level officers and PAPs on the areas chosen for land acquisition;
  Posting of notices along the alignment of the roads, foot paths and walls within the vicinity of the selected areas;
* Distribution of leaflets to PAPs including pedestrians, hawkers and vendors;
Second Stage
I  At the time of submission of the case to DC, an inforrnation campaign will be mounted with the assistance of the
Zone-level Resettlement and Rehabilitation Sub-Committees. This will include distribution of a leaflet, which will
inform people within the vicinity of the specific location on the following information:
intention to acquire land for improvement and upgrading of footpaths/bus-terminals etc;
the intended assets and losses that will be compensated (and those that will not be compensated) and
the persons entitled to compensation;
procedures, that will be applied for land acquisition; and
54



rights of the PAPs ancd of the various steps that they should take to protect their rights.
Third stage
*  Pior to Joint On-Site Inventory and Verification, information regarding when and where land acquisition will take
place, who should attend the process and the list of documents that they should carry with them will be
disseminated to the PAPs and rest of the community members.
Fourth Stage
*  During the actual process of Joint On-Site Inventory and Verification, PAPs wi again be advised on the
procedures and on the available support from Zone-level Resettlement and Rehabilitation Sub-Committees.
Fifth Stage
* Following the issue of Notice No: 7, PAPs will be further advised on when and where the compensation will be
made and the necessary documents they should carry with them in order to obtain payment.
Sixth Stage
* At the time of payments PAPs will be inforned of the time they have to vacate the land and their rights to salvage
their assets.
10.. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
10.1 Overall co-ordination
(Please refer to the DUTP Organizational Structure Chart for Resettlement and Rehabilitation on
the following page)
Overall co-ordination and funding approval of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) will be
the responsibility of the Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU) which reports directly to the
GDTPCB within the Ministry of Communications. To facilitate this function, the GDTPCB Project
Co-ordination Unit will appoint a Land Acquisition/Resettlement Expert who will report directly
to the PCU Project Director.
A Project Resettlement and Rehabilitation Committee will be established by the DCC Project
Implementation Unit. This committee, DCC-Project Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Committee will be serviced by their PlUs.
A resettlement division will be established within the PIU headed by a Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Officer who will report to the PIU Project Director through the Additional Project
Director (Planning, Programming, Monitoring and Supervision).
The Project Resettlemeint and Rehabilitation Committee will provide advice and guidance
on the implementation of the RAP. Implementation of the RAP requires co-ordination among
different agencies and presents a challenge to the Project Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Committee, and may pose a risk of delays in implementing the resettlement and relocation
program. The DUTP will therefore undertake training and present orientation seminars for
all PIU resettlement division staff and Project Resettlement and Rehabilitation Committee
members, whio will include representatives of all the involved stakeholders. Such capacity
55



building will be! co-ordinated with the overall project implementation scheduile, to ensure
that full-time staff with appropriate social science skills are available to implement the RAP
without causing delays to civil works. Alternatively, local consultants may have to be engaged
by the Project Implementation Units whilst their resettlement division staff are being trained.
Membership of the Project Resettlement and Rehabilitation Committee will be determined
by the PIU Project Director in consultation with the PCU Project Director, and be approved by
the GDTPCB. They will include only representatives of legitimate stakeholders directly involved in
the project components being implemented by DCC or RHD.
56



EISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS
GREATER DHAKA TRANSPORT
PLANNING AND COORDINATION BOARD
(overall project coordination and management)
NGO              GDTPCB PROECT              UNIT (PCU)      PUBLIC
(PAPs participating,   GDTPCBPROJECTCORDINATIONU         U CONSULTATION
monitoring, evaluation)                                          COMMITTEE
Project
Director
Land Acquisition/Resettlement Expert
(Division Head)
Land Acquisition I Resettlement Division Support Staff
PROJECT RESETTLEMENT &                       PROJECT DIRECT-ORS
REHABILITATION                           COORDINATORS:
COMMITTEE of DCC                          RHD BRTA  RAJtIK
(advice and guidance oin RAP                    DMP DOE
DCC PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PIU)
Project
Director
Resettlement & Rehabilitation Officer
| L       (Division Head)
Resettlement and Rehabilitation Division Support Staff
ZONAL RESETTLEMENT & REHABILITATION SUB-COMMITTEES
(DCC-PIU)
DCC-PIU RESETTLEMENT FIELD UNIT
Field Supervisor (Unit Head)
Resettlement Field Unit Field Workers
57



10.2 Zone-level sub-committees
Zone-level Resettlement and Rehabilitation Sub-Committees will be establishe!d by the DCC
Project Implementation Unit within each of DCC's zones where the projeact will be activie. At
present, DCC has divided it's area into ten administrative zones. The zone-level sub-
committees will undertake the Resefflement Action Plan work required to be done on the
ground in their respective zones, co-ordinating with and reporting to the Project Resettlement
and Rehabilitation Committee at the central level. Initially, the sub-committees will be serviced by
the P IU resettlement division of DCC until Zonal Field Units are established in the zones requiring
their own full-time, dedicated staff.
As with the Project Resettlement and Rehabilitation Committee, the membership of the zonal
sub-committee will be determined by the DCC Project Implementation IJnit Project Director
in consultation wiith the PCU Project Director, and be approved by the GDTP,CB.
10.3 Resettlement and rehabilitation staff
The resettlement and  rehabilitation  staff assigned  to the PCU  will incluiJe the land
Acquisition/Resettlement Expert and support staff. The resettlement staff assigned to the PIU
will 'include their Resettlement and Rehabilitation Officers and support staff. In all cases., the
qualifications of these officers and their support staff should include social science and social
development skills, ideally previous resettlement experience, land accluisition experience,
and monitoring and reporting capacity related to both quantitative arid qualitative
indicators of progress and achievements.
Staff in the two resettlement and rehabilitation divisions of the Project Co-ordination Unit and DCC
Project Implementation Unit should include the following functions:
a)  Social Scientist (full-time division head, overall liaison, managemenit, liaison, co-
ordination and monitoring responsibility)
b)  Assistant ResettlementVEstates Officer (full-time)
c)  MIS staff to co-ordinate survey information, maintain databases on compensation
payments, monitor progress, prepare progress reports
d)  Legal Advisor (part time)
e)  Liaison person for field staff supervisors (full-time)
The PIU of DCC is responsible for implementing the project components and Will also appoint
field staff to be attached to the zonal sub-committees. Each zone will by assigned a zone
resettlement aind rehabilitation field supervisor (preferably with extensive NG(O experience)
and several resettlement and rehabilitation field workers who will work directly with the PAPs
and their comrnunity representatives. These field workers will liaise directly with the project's
contracted NGOs described in the following section.
The number of staff needed to undertake this work will depend on the total number of affected people to deal wfith and
the number of sites requiring relocation at any one time. After estimating the number of affecied people, project
authorities will decide what the volume of civil works will be at any one time and estimate INhat staff will be needed to
meet this schedule, adjusting the civil work schedule to their capacity to recruit and train qualified staff. It may be
58



necessary, for example, to addl a separate PIU Resettlement Division for the two flyovers as the volume of
resettlement there will be considerable and delays would be costly.
Staff positions                  Number of full time staff to be posted
PCU             *  Project Director                             I
*  Resettlement Division Head                  1
*  Assist. R'esettlement Officer               1
PlUs (DCC/RHD)  *  Project Director                            I
*  Resettlement Division Head                  I
*  Assist R'esettlement Officers              1-2
*  MIS (programmer)                            I
*  Data Entry Persons                         1-2
*  Legal advisor (part-time)                   1
*  Field Liaison
NGO Field Units   *  Field Supervisors                   I per active zone
*  Field workers                      at least 2 per 100 PAPs
All resettlement related staff -from the Project Directors to the field unit support staff- require
orientation and an overview training seminar on the basic principles of the RAP and its policy
implications. This is to ensure that basic questions and issues are clearly and consistently
understood at every level of the organisation, to improve co-ordination of activities and encourage
sharing of experiences and lessons learned. To achieve this the project will organise three types
of training:
-  Orientation and overview of the Resettlement Action Plan - A two-day workshop to explain
and discuss the basic principles of resettlement, discuss the workplan and clarify reporting
relationships and partnerships between agencies involved in land acquisition;
*  Job specific training ais required - several skills are especially important in sensitive and
controversial fields suclh as land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation (negotiation,
mediation, dispute resolution, time and financial management, monitoring and accountability
for results, land acquisition law, asset valuation procedures). For staff in the front lines, dealing
with affected people directly, it is especially vital that they have all the skills needed to enable
them to meet and overcome inevitable obstacles. Field workers must know the limits of their
role yet be capable of taking creative initiatives when needed. The exact content of these
courses will depend on the experience of those recruited. But it is expected that at least two to
three short courses will be needed each year, first to train and then to improve the skills of the
field unit supervisors and their staff.
.  Survey of lessons learned in resettlement. The Project Directors and Division Heads with
their PIU and PCU staff will need to survey existing resettlement projects in Bangladesh and
attend training on the experience of nearby Indian resettlement projects. Courses are offered
late in the year at the Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) in Hyderabad and 5 slots will
be reserved. Those attending outside courses will conduct follow-up seminars on their return to
improve the skills of Fieldl Unit staff.
10.4 Collaboration with local NGOs
Since much of the work related to resettlement involves social development and community
participation, the project will work with agencies experienced in this type of work such as
NGOs. As explained previously in chapter 8, one or more NGOs or community-based
organizations with experience in public participation and consultation work will be contracted by
59



the GDTPCB to act as a link between the project and the local communities; to clevelop micro-
level plans and handle adjustments for resettlement and consultation with the PAPs in
understanding and getting their entitlements and benefits; and to help the key Governrnent
implementing agencies make arrangements for the smooth removal of PAPs and tJheir structures
and businesses from the project sites.
NGOs selected should demonstrate strong professional, logistical, financial, managerial and
organisational capacity, and proven experience in development activities - in particular, in-house
expertise in urban community development, action research and computer information
management.
10.5 Co-ordination with other Government agencies
Various Governrnent agencies, including the office of the Deputy Commissioner (Acquiring Body)
for assessing and disbursing CUL for private land and property acquisition, will have an important
role to play in the smooth functioning of the displacement and resettlement program. Where a
Government agency (DESA, WASA, etc.) has a direct involvement with a project site, it will
be represented on the relevant zonal resettlement and rehabilitation sub-committee.
The RAP is based partly on compensation and benefits which are sometimes provided by other
development programs and implementing agencies. Efforts will be made to provide
compensation and benefits in a co-ordinated fashion, and to build upon the services and
programs already in place. Where appropriate, cost-sharing arrangements will be attempted by
the DUTP where overlap exists with other agency programs.
10.6 Transparency and accountability
Through the GDTPCB information campaign and other consultative mechanisms, the project will
ensure that there is a fair, equitable and transparent process regarding the resettlement
and relocation program and people's entitlements. Payments of compensation ancl the
delivery of other support mechanisms will be done in public settings to avoid any accusations of
impropriety.
10.7 Improvement in policy and practice
Consultancy services have been used in preparing this RAP and may neecd to be retained try the
project in its early stages of implementation (while local PCU and PIU staff are being traineci). An
important objective of the DUTP is to develop a local capacity to plan and implement resettlement
programs in urban areas of Bangladesh. The project, therefore, will document: how capacity
building at different levels is achieved, and how the DUTP contributes to improved sector-
level or urban-wide polices and practices related to resettlement in Bangladesh.
10.8  Flow of Funds
Responsibility for the adequate flow of funds and supervision of accountability for their
expenditure rests with the PCU Project Director who reports to the GDTPC Board.
11. MONIT7ORING AND EVALUA TION
60



This Resettlement Action FPlan contains indicators and benchmarks for achievement of the
resettlement and relocation program (Appendix 4). These indicators and benchmarks are of
three kinds:
i)    process indicators, indicating project inputs, expenditures, staff deployment, etc;
ii)   output indicators, indicating results in terms of numbers of affected people
compensated and resettled and/or vacating the project sites, training held, credit
disbursed, etc; and
iii)  impact indicators, related to the longer-term effects of the project on the people's
lives.
The benchmarks and indicators are limited in number, and combine quantitative and qualitative
types of data.
The first two types of indicators, related to process and immediate outputs and results, will be
monitored internally by thie GDTPCB and its Land Acquisition/Resettlement Expert attached to
the DUTP Project Co-ordination Unit using data supplied by the DCC and RHD Project
Implementation Unit Resettlement and Rehabilitation Officers. This information will serve to
inform project management about progress and results, and enable adjustments to the
work program if delays or problems arise. The results of this monitoring will be summarised in
reports submitted regularly to the GDTPCB and the World Bank.
The Project Co-ordination Unit Land Acquisition/Resettlement Expert will work closely with the
NGO(s) involved with the participation and consultation process, and the grievance committees in
monitoring the progress of the project. This will be particularly critical prior to the commencement
of civil works in the field as the land and property acquisition and removal process needs to
be completed before a contractor commences construction.
Process and output indicators will be reported monthly and will include planned , actual and
variance for the following:
tExpenditures for each entitlement (amount of money and other benefits awarded and
amount received by PAPs for each benefit in categories 1 to 11);
Number of PAP individuals (numbers of ID cards issued, number receiving benefits, people
displaced, and people resettled adequately);
. Amount of land acquisiltion by stage in the process (proposals submitted to DC, approved by
DC, number of Section 3, 6 and 7 notices).
The following matrix outlines the major inputs and outputs, as well as the indicators that would be
used for monitoring progress, in the RAP implementation process.
Input                     Output                        Indicator
Organizational41____________________________________
.  PIU established  *  Staff posted                   .  PD issued office order
*  LA, proposal prepared         .  TORs for the staff issued
.  LA. proposal submitted to DC  *  Amount of khas and other public
.  Information updated              lands determined
*  Budget revised                .  DC approved LA proposal
61



*  Compensation payment to PAPs other      *  # of PAPs known by impact
than legal owners started                  categories
*  Payment of additional compensation to   *  % of PAPs received compensation
legal owners started                       and other entitlement
*  Utilities authorities contacted         *  % of PAPs received additional
compensation and other
entitlement
*   Utilities restored
*  Consultative           *  Members chosen                          *  Minutes of meetings, witL issues
Committee formed                                                     discussed
a  NGO contracted         *  NGO staff mobilized                     *  Contract document and TOR
*  Information dissemination and          *   PAPs know the NGO staf'
Consultation                           *   PAPs learned about project
*  Data computerized                      *  % of PAPs consulted and made
*  Individual entitlements estimated          aware of policies, and options
*  ID cards issued                        *  % of PAPs (other than legal
*  Additional payment estimated               owners) received. ID cards
*  % of legal owners received ID
cards
*  JVT formed             *  Members chosen                          *  Physical verification of af:.ected
assets completed
*   Impact on utilities determined
*   Replacement value of the assets
determined
*  GRCs formed            *  Grievances received, reviewed and       *  Number of grievances received
decision given                        *  Number of hearings held
*  % of grievances reviewed
*  % of grievances on which
decisions given
LandAcquisition Process
Notice 3 issued       *  PAPs learned about acquisition          *  % of PAPs understood
consequences of acquisition
*  % of PAPs objected to accuisition
I*   CUL procpssing        *  Valuation of assets started             *  # of legal owners identified by DC
started                                                          *  % of the assets assessed
*  Notice 6 issued        *  PAPs learned about required legal       *  % of PAPs with required
documents                                  documents
.  % of PAPs have disputed
ownership
.  Compensation estimate  *  Funds placed with DC                     *   Bank order from DCC
finalized by DC
*  Notice 7 issued and    *  PAPs learned about amount of            % of PAPs received C(UL
CUL payment started       compensation                           % of PAPs without required documents
% of court cases
Eviction Notice and Land
Handover
*  Eviction notice served   *  PAPs learned when to vacate the       *  All eligible compensation and
by DCC                    lands/properties                           entitlements paid up
*  Land handover to the    *  Contractors mobilized                  *   PAPs vacated the acquired
contractors           *  Civil works started                         lands/properties
I Income Restoration
*  Compensation/entitlem   *  % of PAPs received                     *  % of PAPs yet to receive
ents received for lost    compensation/entitlement                   compensation du.e to legal and
assets or income      *  Reestablishment of livelihood/ income       other disputes
attempted                              *  % of PAPs able to restart
62



*  Relocated homes                            businesses in new premises/
locations
*  % of PAPs able to find
employment
*  % of PAPs switched occupation
*  Difference between pre- and post
displacement income
*  % of PAPs relocated their homes
11.1 Procedural Steps
The major procedural steps to be monitored monthly and reported to the Project Coordination
Unit include:
Organizational Arrangements for RAP Implementation:
*  An organizational structure within DCC is
established, to oversee RAP implementation process                     by PIU
*  An Advisory Committee, with representation from the
stakeholder groups, civil society, media, etc., is formed              by PIU
* Grievance Redress Commtittees (GRCs) are formed by
ward/location of civil works                                           by PIU
* A reputed NGO is recruited to assist
with RAP implementation                                             by PIU
After the engineering designs arefinalized and the
exact amount and location of lands are known
Preparation of proposal, by Mouza
(if applicable) and Location:                                              by Consultants
(Physical verification and market price assessment of the affected properties and their owners/users, by the Joint
Verification Team (JVT) may begin - under the assumption that acquisition/project will go ahead Verification records
for each affected person are signed by both JVT and the person concerned Disputes are also recorded; GRCs may start
junctioning NGO compiles and process the data. Information dissemination and consultation may also start now --if a
cut-off dates are already established)
Information Update:                                                        by PIUINGO
(NGO keeps updating census/socioeconomic information already gathered, taking into account JVTfindings)
Budget Revision:                                                           by PIU
(Budget is revised in view of JVTfindings)
Submission of LA proposal to DC:                                           by PIU
(DCC follows thru)
Approval of LA proposal:                                                    by DC
(DCC follows thru. Physical verification, etc. by JVT may also begin at this stage -- ij'not earlier)
Issuance of Notice under Section 3 of LA Law:                               by DC
(DCC follows thru. NGO consultation regarding policies and options, and required legal documents to claim
compensation begins. Property owners are advised/helped to gather all required documents. Ownership and other
issues/disputes expectecd to be forthcoming; GRCs become fully functional.)
Preparation of Individual Entitlements:                                    by PIUINGO
(Takes into account taking into account choice of options made by those not covered by the law)
**Issuance of ID Cards:                                                    by PIUINGO
(To those who are not covered bv the law and have no disputes involving any -rights they might have on the acquired
properties. The process continues)
63



Valuation of the acquired properties:                                       by DC staiT
(DC staffass-esses the value of the properties in accordance with the iaw. DCC and NGO follow thru the process)
Disbursement of Compensation:                                               by PIU/NGO
(Compensation payment to all nor covered under the law, can begin)
Issuance of Notice under Section 6 of LA Law:                               by DC
(DCC and NGO follow thru. Legal owners bring in the required documents (or might be asked to bring them during
disbursement). GRCs keep functioning)
Issuance of Notice under Section 7 of LA Law:                               by DC
(DCC and NGO follow thru. Legality of individual ownership, as it appears in his/her own records, is determined by
DC. Il'these records are not up-to-date, disputes may arise. Updating of legal papers may take a great deal of time.
GRCs keep functioning. Court cases involving ownership, compensation rates and other matters can be expected)
**lssuance of ID Cards:                                                    by PlUINGO
(To those whose legal ownership are established with DC and have no further encumbrances/disputes. The procei s
continues)
Disbursement of 'Compensation under Law (CUL)'                             by DC:
(DC starts lhe long process of CUL payment. Legal owners might be asked to bring in all required documents at this
stage as well. Disputes may arise anew and lead to long delays)
Finalizing Additional Individual Entitlement
for Those Covered by Law:                                                  by PIU/NGO
(CUL amounts are needed to determine whether or not DCC owes additional payment. In cases wheure DCC owes,
additional compensation over CUL is finalized taking into account choices of options made by the PAPs)
Disbursement of A,dditional Compensation (difference
between market price and CUL, if applicable)                               by PI U/PI U
(DCC starts payment of additional compensation)
Eviction Notice:                                                           by PIU
(Given to individual affected persons at completion of all compensationl entitlement, from DC and DCC. DCCJNGO
keeps records of issuance date of 'eviction notice, signed by both DCC and evictees)
Land Handover to Contractors:                                              by PIU
(Contractors move into the sites the day following expiration of the eviction notice)
The third type of indicator, related to long term effects, will require participatory moniltoring
involving the PAPs and beneficiaries of the resettlement and relocation program in
assessing  results and impacts. For the participatory monitoring, the GDTPBC  will contract a
separate NGO or other independent agency with analytical capacity, which is not engaged on the
DUTP participation and consultation process. This contracted agency will guide i:he participatory
monitoring by the PAPs and other project beneficiaries and also undertalke independent
evaluations at specified times during the lifetime of the project, as an input to a mid-term review by
the World Bank, and for longer term impact evaluations. This will include an evaluation input to the
World Bank's project completion report. Such independent evaluations will focus on assessing
whether the overall objectives of the project are being met, and will use the defined lproject
impact indicators as a basis for evaluation, including but not limitesd to restoration and
improvement in individual and personal incomes and productive assets. NeBt changes in livelihood
will be monitored, especially for the most vulnerable, to ensure that project benelits are equitably
shared with those who must be moved to create those benefits.
64



APPENDIX 1
LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR LAND
AND PROPERTY ACQUISITION
IN BANGLADESH
Contents
Page
1.  Overview                                                             1
2.  Earlier legislation                                                  1
3.  Acquisition and Requisition of Immovable Property
Ordinance of 1982                                                    1
4.  Property (Emergency) Acquisition Act of 1989                         2
5.  Administrative and regulatory guidelines and instructions            2
.6.  Compensation eligibility                                             3
7.  Resettlement policy                                                   3
65



I



APPENDIX I
LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR LAND AND PROPERTY ACQUISITION IN BANGLADESH
1.   Overview
This text of Appendix I has been taken directly from the applicable parts of Chapter
6 of the Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge RRAP report. It contains a brief review of the
legal, administrative and regulatory framework governing acquisition and requisition
of property for development purposes in Bangladesh, including current legislation
and its regulatory framework.
2.   Earlier legislation
The country's first Land Acquisition Act of 1870 was repealed by the promulgation of a
second Land Acquisition Act of 1894. The then Collector (now Deputy Commissioner) was
entitled to take possession of land to be acquired after an award was made. The amount of
compensation was based on similar average land and property values. By an amendment
provided for in Ordinance Xill of 1963, this related to the average value of land and
property over a five year period immediately preceding the acquisition.
'VVhile the Land Acquisition Act of 1894 was in force, the 1948 East Bengal (Emergency)
Requisition of Property Act was promulgated, by in effect reproducing an existing ordinance
of 1947 but with certain amendments to accommodate the partitioning of the sub-continent.
The 1948 East Bengal (Emergency) Requisition of Property Act was extended from time to
time for triennial periods, the last time being in 1981.
ILand acquisition in the Dhaka Metropolitan Area was previously govemed by the 1953
Town Improvement Act. Under the provisions of this 1953 Act, the Board of Trustees of the
Dhaka Improvement Trust (now RAJlUK) was authorized to acquire land with the prior
approval of the Government under provisions laid down in the 1894 Land Acquisition Act.
3.   Acquisition and Requisition of Immovable Property Ordinance of 1982
The 1894 Land Accquisition Act and the 1948 East Bengal (Emergency) Requisition of
Property Act were replaced by the comprehensive 1982 Acquisition and Requisition of
Immovable Property Ordinance (Ordinance II of 1982). This 1982 Ordinance governs all
cases of acquisition and requisition of immovable property by the Government for any
public purpose or piublic interest. After the promulgation of the 1982 land acquisition
ordinance, the 1953 Town Improvement Act of RAJUK was repealed.
It is stated in the 1982 Ordinance that whenever it appears to the Deputy Commissioner
that any property in any locality is needed for a public purpose or in the public interest, he
or she shall cause a notice of intention to acquire to be published at convenient places in or
near the property to be acquired. Any person having an interest in such a property may
object to the proposed property acquisition by writing to the Deputy Commissioner within 15
days of the notice being published. The Deputy Commissioner prepares a report on the
objection and refers the case to a higher authority for a decision. If the property exceeds
ten standard bighas of land, this higher authority is the Govemment of the day. This was
66



changed to fifty standard bighas (16.5 acres; 6.68 ha) by an amendment to the ordinance in
1994.
4.   Property (Emergency) Acquisition Act of 1989
Following the devastating floods of 1987 and 1988, the Government pas-sed a new land
acquisition law entitled Property Emergency Acquisition Act (Act IX of 1989,>. This 1989 Act
was prormulgated to expedite the acquisition of land in an emergency for flood control
purposes, and to prevent river erosion. The 1989 Act did not replace the 1982 Ordinance
as it was intended to complement the 1982 Ordinance only in special emergency
circumstances. The two pieces of legislation are very similar in their content. The 1989 Act
was meant to remain in force for five years. There are no additional provisions in the 1989
Act to einsure fairer payment of compensation, although stricter time-limits may be applied
under the 1989 Act to enable the more prompt payment of compensation monies.
5.   Administrative and regulatory guidelines and instructions
In 1976 the Government constituted two types of land allocation committees, a District
Land Allocation Committee in each division, and a Central Land Allocation Committee, with
the Central Land Allocation Committee being responsible for land allocation in the city of
Dhaka. In 1989 the Government decided that in deference to the provisions of the 1982
Ordinarice, the President for the Government would have to give peimission to any
acquisition of land exceeding ten bighas (later amended to fifty bighas).
Under the provisions of the 1982 Ordinance, the legal aspects of the land acquisition
process start with the Requiring Body submitting an application to the Deputy
Commissioner, representing the Acquiring Body, with a request to acquire land for a
specific purpose. The Acquiring Body processes the land acquisition application including
the determination of the level of compensation and payment to the concerned people. After
final approval by the President, Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner (as the case may
be) to proceed with the land acquisition, the 'application is referred back to the 'Deputy
Commissioner for final assessment of compensation. The required fund is placed with the
Deputy Commissioner by the Requiring Body. When land acquisition is completed, tlle land
is handed over to the Requiring Body.
Compensation is paid by the Deputy Commissioner's office. No speci1ic rules exist on
where or in which form the compensation is to paid. Smaller amounts appear to be paid in
cash, whereas larger amounts are paid by cheque to the beneficiaries as identifiecd by the
Chairman or members of the Union Parishad, or by gazetted officers. 'When the rightful
owner of a plot of land cannot be identified, or there is a conflict over ownership, or conflict
over the distribution of compensation funds, the funds are deposited in the Public Account.
When a person refuses to accept the award of compensation, that person can apply for
arbitraition in accordance with the provisions of the 1982 land accluisitiori ordinance or the
1989 emergency land acquisition act.
After payment of compensation, the ownership of the land is formally transferred to the
Requiring Body by mutation of the Requiring Body's name in the revenue recorcis of the
Government, and published in the Government Gazette.
6.   Compensation eligibility
67



Households having a clear title on their land are eligible for a full package of compensation
covering land, house and other structure(s), crops in the fields and trees within the
homesteads.
There are categories of people who suffer indirectly but substantially from land acquisition
and have to resort to squatting on unauthorized land. They are not entitled to any
comprensation nor resettlement benefits. The same is the case with sharecroppers and
tenants. Legislation dioes not exist to cover these cases, nor is there a comprehensive set
of provisions for their compensation, resettlement and/or rehabilitation.
Further, the principles of "resettlement" have never been coherently established by law or
regulation. In the aibsence of any legislative guidelines, resettlement is left to the
understanding and judgment of incumbent authorities and is largely determined by the
existence of internal. and/or external pressures.
7.    Resettlement policy
The land acquisition laws of 1982 and 1989 ensure a statutory cash compensation to legal
owners of properties under acquisition, but do not guarantee replacement of the acquired
properties nor restoration of the standard-of-living of those indirectly affected by the
acquisition. The existing acquisition laws have no provisions for compensating people who
are not property owners but, nevertheless, stand to lose from the acquisition (including
tenants and illegal occupants of land).
A resettlement policy could be adopted by the Govemment. The Govemment could
consider adopting a resettlement policy that would compensate for the weaknesses of
existing land acquisition laws and would, at the same time, enable proper resettlement and
rehabilitation of all "project affected persons." The primary objective of this resettlement
policy could be to enable all "project affected persons" to at least regain their pre-
acquisition standard-of-living and preferably to improve upon it. It should be based on the
principle that the all people who sacrifice some or all of their property and standard-of-living
for .the Government's development initiatives should also be the beneficiaries of the
Government's intervention.
68



I



APPENDIX 2
DUTP SOCIAL ASSESSMENT FIELD SCREENING
Contents
Page
1.  Intersection improvements                                         1
2.  Inter-district bus terminals                                      3
3.  City bus depot and terminal facilities                            5
4.  Road widenings                                                    6
5.  New links                                                         6
6.  Tongi bypass intersection/road improvements                       8
7.  Priority route structures for cycle-rickshaws                     8
8.  Truck depots/parks                                               11
9.  Rail-road overpasses and flyovers                                13
10. Parking                                                          15
11. Cycle-rickshaw underpasses                                       17
12. Pedestrian footbridges and sidewalk improvements                 17
13. Potential environmental impacts                                  17
14. Environmental field screening outcomes                           17
69






APPENDIX 2
DUTP SOCIAL ASSESSMENT FIELD SCREENING
During October and November 1997, 53 of the DUTP project sites were screened in the field as to
any potential social impacts that might arise from the implementation of the DUTP concept
designs.
1.   Intersection improvements (refer to Figure 1)
Improving the operational capacities of 20 key intersections is being proposed with an
emphasis on separating slow and fast moving traffic. Various improvements are proposed
for these 20 intersections including:
-  realigning approach roads,
-  widening approach roads,
-  installing traffic dividers, traffic signals, road signs, railings, and pedestrian
crossings,
-  resurfacing the road pavemerit,
-  constructing and improving footpaths,
-  improving storm water drainage,
-  providing for additional lanes of traffic,
improving and moving street lighting, and
-  improving and providing for left turn corner lanes.
In all cases there will be a positive social impact at all of these intersections brought about
by the improved traffic movements at and through the intersections for all users of the
intersections. Operators, owners, drivers, users and passengers of all MVs and NMVs, and
pedestrians will benefit from the reduction of delays in entering and exiting the
intersections: Commercial, retail and service operators and providers will likewise benefit
from improved pedlestrian flows accessing their establishments located at the intersections
- for their staff and customers/clients, and thus their overall business turnover.
There are some discernable negative social impacts that are common to many of the
intersections. They are:
a)   shops and bazars operating directly onto the footpath and in some cases on the
edge of the road carriageway will be required to clear the footpath (and road
carriageway),
b)    hawkers operating on the footpaths and sometimes on the edge of the road
carriageway will need to be removed from the intersections,
c)   all forms of public transport operating illegally at the intersections,  particularly
intersection comers, to load, unload and wait for passengers will need to be
removed from the intersections - this includes cycle-rickshaws, auto-rickshaws/baby
taxis, tempos and buses, and
d)   various forns of commercial vehicles operating illegally at the intersections to load,
unload and wait for consignments will need to be removed from the intersections
with a consequent negative impact on the commercial and retail establishments they
service - this includes hand push-carts/vans, cycle carts/vans, motorised carts/vans,
mini-trucks and trucks.
70



These are the four most common illegal activities that will suffer a negative social impact as
a result of proposals to improve vehicular and pedestrian movement at the intersections.
Isolated cases that will result in a negative social impact at some intersectiolis include:
a) the closure/removal/relocation of petrol filling stations located at some intersection
corners,
b) the prevention of direct access for motor vehicles to and from new car sales
estaiblishments, located at some intersections,
c) the removal of 900 car parking in front of commercial and retail establishments at some
intersections,
d) the removal of building materials-for-sale illegally located on footpaths aind the eclge of
road carriageways to be removed at some intersections,
e) kerbside rent-a-car parking close to some intersection corners will need to be moved
away from those intersection corners, and
f)  commercial establishments fronting some road reserves that utilize the footpath and/or
edge of the road carriageway to manufacture, process and/or package their products
will be required to cease such operations.
Clearly, some of the business activities will be more serioUsly affiected by the proposed
intersection improvements than others. All illegal activities will be totally displaced,
whereas spillover activities onto the road reserve (footpath and road carriageway) of
legally-operated establishments fronting road reserves should be able to continue operating
but in a restricted manner. The problematic NMV and MV public transport activities
operatinig at the intersections corners could be accommodated, but local:ed further away
from the intersection comers along carriageways which exit an intersection. The 900
carparking bays fronting businesses, direct vehicular access/egress to/from the new car
sales establishments, and petrol filling stations located at intersection comers will be the
most seriously affected by the intersection improvements. Their businesses will suffer as
there is no alternative solution to this situation other than their closure and removal from the
intersection.
2.   Inter-district bus terminals (refer to Figure 2)
The proposals for the three inter-district bus, terminals of Saidabad, Mohakhali and
Gabtali involve upgrading the three terminals to integrated city and inter-district bus
terminals. At present, only the Saidabad terminal accommodates both city and inter-city
buses on-site.
All three bus terminals currently operate inefficiently with very, heavy congestion of
buses along their road frontages and insufficient utilization of the remainder of the
site. In all cases, hawkers operate along the street frontage boundary further adding
to the traffic congestion as pedestrians mingle with the bus traffic.
Conceptually, the proposals for all three sites are identical with a corner of each site with
main r oad frontage to be upgraded as a city bus terminal connect:ed by pedestrian area(s)
to an inter-district bus terminal along the remainder of the site frontage. Areas to the rear
of each site are proposed as upgraded bus parking areas. Improvements to all three sites
include an improved pavement for access roads and parking areas, upgraded passenger
71



facilities including terminal buildings, shelters and information signage, upgraded access
and egress points, walls, railings, gates, signs, signals and lighting.
A positive social impact will result from the bus terminal proposals by vastly improving the
integration of city and inter-district terminal facilities on the one site. This added
convenience will benefit all terminal users including operators, drivers and passengers, as
will the reduced bus turn-around time brought about by the vastly improved bus movements
and traffic flows on-site.
Potential detrimental social impacts can be easily avoided by providing for all existing on-
site activities in the bus terminal proposals. These activities include minor bus repairs and
maintenance, and hawker stalls and mobile vendors.  Appropriate, effective on-site
management of the terminals and all their facilities is required to ensure that the optimum
positive social impact is achieved.
3.   City bus depot and terminal facilities (refer to Figure 2)
The Kalyanpur and Motijheel bus depots are existing large under-utilized BRTC bus
depots proposed for dual usage as BRTC bus depots and suburban bus terminals.
Conversion of each site poses no detrimental social impact concerns as both sites are
currently free of activities not directly associated with the operation of a BRTC bus depot.
The Fulbaria terminal is an existing city and suburban bus terminal in one of the busiest
areas of Dhaka. The proposal to extend and upgrade its facilities on its existing site and
adjacent DCC market site will benefit bus users of the site. However, considerable existing
on-site supermarket, stalls and hawker activity would be detrimentally affected by this
proposal to create an upgraded city and suburban Fulbaria bus terminal as they
(supermarkets, stalls and hawkers) could not be incorporated in any new at-grade bus
terminal proposal.
The Gulistan city and suburban bus terminal currently operates along a congested road
carriageway east of the Fulbaria bus terminal, effectively closing this roadway to non-bus
traffic. At present the on-street Gulistan terminal has no facilities other than a very basic set
of very public toilets (roofless, no doors). Hawkers operate along the footpath and fence to
the adjacent parklands. It is proposed to relocate the Gulistan city bus terminal activities to
an adjacent DCC market site, but existing on-site stalls and hawker activity would be
detrimentally affected if this proposal were to result in a new at-grade bus terminal.
In all four cases, upgrading of the two BRTC bus depots and improvements to the two DCC
bus terminals to provide much-needed improved bus terminal facilities for Dhaka must
result in positive social impacts for all users of the bus terminal sites. This includes the
operators, bus drivers and passengers provided that appropriate, effective on-site
management of the terminals and their facilities is also provided as part of the improvement
packages.
A serious detrimental social impact would result to stalls and hawkers operating on the two
existing DCC sites proposed for redevelopment as the two city and suburban bus terminals
at Fulbaria and Gulistan.This could be avoided if these terminals were built above the
existing on-site market structures.
72



4.   Road widenings (refer to Figure 3)
All of the proposed road widenings being considered under DUTP will provide a positive
social beniefit to the users of the roads to be widened, as a result of improved road and
traffic conditions. Of the various road widening projects, only two have the potential to
produce any detrimental social impacts, namely:
-  Fulbaria Road (350m from Banga Bazar to K. Alauddin Road)
-  Mirpur Road (1,390m from Shaymoli Cinema Hall to Darusalam)
The negative social impact associated with the 350m Fulbaria Road widening involves the
impact to users of a four storied building and a few small shops which will need to be
removed to accommodate the proposed road widening. The small neagative social impact
associated with the 1,390m Mirpur Road widening involves the front landscaped yard and
street frontage wall of a residence which will have to be removed to accommodate the
proposed road widening.
5.   New links (refer to Figure 3)
Four new link roads were investigated under DUTP that all require some fonn of excessive
land acquisition and/or access to Government land and, as a consequence, will not be
implemented in conjunction with DUTP, as follows :'
a) Mirpur-14 to Banani               a land acquisition of private land
b) Agargaon to Jahangir Gate           access permission required from airport
authorityl cantonmen1t board
c) Gulshan-1 to Badda                a land acquisition of private land
d) Tongi Diversion Road to Shooting  . land acquisition of private land
Complex (Gulshan)/Rampura Progati
Sanani
In all cases, the four proposed link roads would have resulted in positive social impacts for
users of the roads and residents of the surrounding areas who would have experienced
much improved access/egress to/from their respective areas.
On the other hand, the following negative social impacts would hiave resulted froim the
construction of the four link roads:
a)  Mirpur-14 to Banani: This link road would impact on an existing Mosque if the road
could not be realigned to bypass it; the Shikha Anirban would bie partiailly affected; and
several buildings of the old DOHS would need to be demolished.
b)  Agargaon to Jahangir Gate: This link road would require the closure and removal of
the existing National Parade Square, airforce runway and airforce hanger if the road
were to be constructed.
c)  GLulshan-1 to Badda: This link road would require the removal of a consiclerable
number of sub-standard semi-pucca residences, tin sheds,    small shops and
boundary walls.
73



d) Tongi Diversion Road to Shooting Complex (Gulshan)iRampura Pragati Sanani:
This link road would affect some 50-60 squatter houses containing some 150-180
families who woLJld need to be resettled, as well as some 5-10 tin sheds.
6.   Tongi bypass intersection/road improvements (refer to Figure 4)
Proposed improvements for the Tongi bypass include a new bridge deck over the Turag
River, widening of the road from the bridge to Mymensingh Road, and intersection
improvements at the Tongi Bypass/Mymensingh Road intersection.
These improvements will result in a positive social impact for all users of the bridge and
intersection by improving the traffic flow across the bridge, and removing the congestion
presently experienced in the vicinity of the intersection. This impact will have positive
benefits for the residents and truck operators and drivers of Tongi township, as well as for
users of the heavily trafficked airport road.
Negative social impacts may result from increased traffic flows across the bridge should it
become a popular allternative route for very large volumes of traffic to and from Dhaka.
depending on the final engineering design, the intersection improvements may affect some
25 existing small shops currently operating on the edge of the existing ROW, as they may
need to be removed.
7.   Priority route structLlres for cycle-rickshaws (refer to Figure 5)
Besides the two NMV low cost improvement options as alternatives to the Sonargaon and
Mohakhali flyovers discussed in the following Section 9, seven additional-NMT routes are
proposed for the priority use of NMVs. In all cases, as a positive social impact, users of the
NMVs on these routes will benefit because of the improved movement of the NMVs
between adjacent areas and/or the avoidance of heavily trafficked and congested
intersections. One of the seven priority rickshaw routes utilizes Railways land to access
Pantha Path via the Malibagh and Moghbazar rail crossings; two rickshaw routes cross
Banani lake linking two sets of roads in Banani and Gulshan; one links Banani Road No. 1
to Mohakhali Road; one links Tejgaon to Nayatola; and the other two routes link the Baitul
Aman Housing Society area with, firstly, the Mirpur Mazar Road and, secondly, the Dhaka-
Aricha Highway.
A negative social impact is evident with four of the seven proposed priority rickshaw routes
as a result of affected squatters requiring resettlement.  This is the case with the
Malibagh/Moghbazar rail crossings route where illegal workshops, small shops and a
clubhouse of the Youth Freedom Fighters are also affected; with the south Banani lake
crossing on the edges of the lake; with the Banani Road No.1 to Mohakhali route; and with
the Dhaka-Aricha Highway link route. However, the number of affected squatters is not
great in each case. As well, there are several instances of minor intrusions onto the
proposed priority rickshaw routes by a small number of other structures such as tin sheds,
boundary walls and semi-pucca and kutcha houses partly affected. Along the Dhaka-Aricha
Highway where the priority rickshaw route junction is proposed, it will be necessary to
remove various bamboo sellers operating on the edge of the ROW. The most significant
social impact will occur at the Banani Road No. 18 connection of the north Banani lake
crossing where three recently constructed semi-pucca structures of Rangs Electronics
Limited will need to be removed at the end of this existing road to accommodate the
74



proposed priority rickshaw route.
One other discemable potential social impact will occur in different parts of the high class
residential areas of Banani and Gulshan as a result of three of the proposed priority
rickshaw routes. In these cases, NMVs will traverse residential aireas where they have
previously not existed in large numbers due to the absence of the links under
consideration.
8.   Truck depots/parks (refer to Figure 6)
Five areas in Tejgaon, Pagla, Saidabad, Mohammadpur and Amin Bazar are currently
utilized as uncontrolled, haphazard truck depots/parks.
It is proposed to formalize truck depot/park sites in these five locations to rieduce kerbside
truck parking on major and local roads by developing appropriately sized off-streel: truck
parking areas and associated facilities.
In all five cases a positive social impact will occur with the improved truck depots/parks as
a resullt of the truck drivers and owners experiencing a more efficient trucking
operation/business. This would occur because of the existence of properly planned,
managed and operated truck depots/parks which do not exist as such at present. No
discernable major negative social impact exists with these proposals.
9.   Rail-road overpasses and flyovers (refer to Figure 7)
Two alternative schemes are proposed for each of the three possible flyover sites of:
- Jatrabari intersection,
- Sonargaon intersection, and
- Mohakhali intersection.
At Jatrabari, two alternative flyovers of different cost, length, gradients and spans have
been suggested for traffic using the  Dhaka/Chittagong road.  At Sonargaon, one
alternative involves a flyover over the intersection for traffic using the main north-south
road; the other alternative involves a grade-separated exclusive east-west route for NMVs
south of the main intersection (behind the Sonargaon Hotel).  At Mohakhali, one
alternative involves a curved flyover over the intersection and railway lirie from the north
(from M/ymensingh Road) to the east (to the Old Airport Road) with a single carriageway
extension to the south along the Dhaka Mymensingh Road; the other alternative involves a
grade-separated NMV crossing of Mymensingh Road to the north of the T-junction.
The two flyover alternatives for Jatrabari will have the same social imlpact in eaich
case as their space requirements at ground level are almost identical.. A very
positive social impact will result at Jatrabari due to the improved movement ait and
through the intersection by all users of the intersection.
Several shops and buildings at corner locations will be affected by the intersection
corner improvements and will need to be removed; numerous hawkers and the
Shahid Faruk Sarak street market will need to be removed as well as all public:
transport loading/unloadinglwaiting areas at the street corners. To accommodate
75



the proposed flyover, all illegal business activities operating between the road verge
and the southern boundary of the Chittagong Road will be affected and will need to
be removed; the same applies to the car rental business operating on the southern
edge of the road reserve on Dayaganj Road.
For the Sonargaon flyover proposal, the significant positive social impact will be the
improved movement at and through the intersection by all users of the intersection. Loss of
some private property will result from the flyover proposal. Some parklands along Kazi
Nazrul Islam Road will be lost to public use and some squatters will be affected, requiring
their removal from land on the eastern edge of the proposed flyover reserve south of the
Sonargaon Hotel. For the Sonargaon grade-separated, east-west NMV route alternative,
again a positive impact will result from the improvement of traffic movements at and
through the intersection as a result of the transfer of rickshaw traffic from the intersection to
their own route south of the intersection. However, a negative social impact associated with
this alternative is the need to relocate affected squatters residing on Government land
along the Sonargaon Hotel southern site boundary, and along the covered culvert to the
west, the surface of Nhich forms part of the proposed rickshaw route between Sonargaon
Road and Pantha Paith. As well, hawkers located along Sonargaon Road where the road
will be raised to pass over the rickshaw route will need to be removed from the footpath in
this vicinity, as well as hawkers operating along the covered culvert surface between
Sonargaon Road and Pantha Path.
The flyover proposal for Mohakhali will result in a positive social impact as a result of the
improved movement at and through the T-junction by all users of the T-junction. Various
hawkers and stalls operating at the intersection will be affected by the proposed flyover and
will need to be removed. Public transport stops at the intersection will require relocation to
accommodate the flyover. As with the Sonargaon intersection, .the Mohakhali grade-
separated NMV route alternative will also result in a positive impact due to the improvement
of traffic movements at and through the intersection as a result of the removai of rickshaw
traffic from the T-junction. The same negative social impact described above for the flyover
option will occur with grade-separated NMV option in that various hawkers and stalls
operating at the intersection will still be affected and will still need to be removed. Public
transport stops along the eastern edge of the Dhaka Mymensingh Road will also need to
the relocated to accommodate the NMV traffic lane proposed along this particular
alignment.
10.   Parking (refer to Figure 8)
The three parking proposals/areas under consideration on DUTP2 are for very different
situations in each case:-
a) Motijheel parking (for cars)    . commercial (business) precinct
b) New/Old Elephant Roads parking  . retail precinct
(for cars)
c) English Road parking (for trucks   * commercial and light industrial
and other commercial vehicles)    precinct
As a positive social irnpact, the Motijheel car parking proposals would satisfy an existing
demand for on-street and off-street car parking which is not being met at present and, thus,
would presumably facilitate more efficient business activities in the commercial area.
76



However, the negative impact of the proposal is that in doing this it would replace all of the
existing or potential open space areas/parks to an extent whereby the Molijheel
Commercial Area would be almost totally devoid of public open space, thus creal:ing a
"concrete jungle".
The New/Old Elephant Roads proposal is to increase the available car parking spaces by
providing off-street parking and regulating on-street parallel parking for motor vehicles. This
would represent a positive social impact in that it would satisfy a demand for spaces which
exists at present and thus, presumably, the attraction of the retail area to pot:ential
customers who own cars. A negative impact would be the displacernent of some keibside
hawker/stall activities for on-street parallel parking and a restriction on lhe activities of
rickshaws currently utilizing that space for passenger loading/ unloading/waiting of potential
customers of low socio-economic means.
As a positive social impact, any parking proposal(s) that would decongest the overall traffic
problems in the English Road area wouid result in a positive social impaci to users of the
area. The traffic problems in this area are so serious that it is difficult to see how any
sensible remedial action could have anything but a positive social impact. Howeve!r, the
emphasis must be on truck parking and commercial vehicle activities, and all fonrns of
public transport at the expense of providing parking space for private motor cars.
11.  Cycle-rickshaw underpasses (refer to Figures 4 and 6)
Three sites along the major north-south arterial road, the Dhaka-Mymensingh IRoad,
are proposed for cycle-rickshaw underpasses to facilitate the east-west movement of
rickshaws at Tejgaon, Banani and Uttara. The Uttara site is clear of any obstructions,
whereas the Tejgaon and Banani underpasses will require some minor land
acquisition and removal of roadside stalls.
12.  Pedestrian footbridges (refer to Figure 3) and sidewalk improvements
Three pedestrian footbridges proposed for DUTP involve no resettlement issues.
Some 20 kms of sidewalk improvements will require the removal of roadside stalls.
13.  Potential environmental impacts
DUTP involves the engineering design of construction projects with both positive and
negative impacts on the physical, social and health environment of Dhaka. The civil works
will involve many components of work of a different nature, and their implementation will
cause social, health and environmental impacts, including impacts on the urban ecology.
In the following Section 14, the potential positive and negative environmental impacts are
described that have been screened by field reconnaissance survey for each primary
component of works. In most of the cases, on completion of the works, air pollution, water
pollution and soil pollution in the surrounding area will be reduced 1:ogether with an,
improvement of environmental health and sanitation conditions. In somea cases such as
proposed new link roads and widening of existing roads, sorne roadside trees and
vegetation, lakes and other environmentally sensitive areas may be adversely affected.
Precautions therefore need tQ be taken during detailed engineering design to minimize any
potential adverse environmental impacts.
77



14.  Environmental field screening outcomes
Intersection improvements
Acute traffic congestion exists at each site resulting in a concentration of motor vehicle
emissions and noise pollution. Many intersection footpaths and drains are very unhygienic
as a result of defecaition, urination, and lack of proper solid and liquid waste collection and
disposal. After improvements at these intersections, existing traffic delays will be reduced
causing lesser air and noise pollution and, hopefully, an improvement in the sanitation
condition of the footpaths and drains.
Inter-district bus terminals
Heavy traffic jams exist at the bus terminals particularly at their entry and exit points
resulting in acute air and noise pollution caused by motor vehicle emissions and other
vehicle activity. Again, due to poor management, existing public toilet facilities are very
unhygienic. The cornpounds are strewn with garbage, and on-site drains are clogged and
emit foul smells. Old defunct buses and buses under repair are scattered throughout the
compounds with resultant spillage of fuel and lubricants which cause serious pollution of
the surrounding water courses and water bodies.
After improving the entry and exit points and reducing the traffic congestion associated with
these terminals, the air and noise pollution levels will be reduced, and other proposed on-
site improvements will improve facilities for all passengers, including public toilet facilities
and on-site sanitary conditions.
Appropriate planning, design and efficient management of these bus terminals must be a
priority, in the interest of better environmental health conditions for the users of the
terminals.
City bus depot and terminal facilities
The improvement of the existing off-street bus depots and city bus terminals and their
upgrading to off-street city and suburban bus terminals will help clear the road reserves of
waiting buses, thus increasing vehicle speeds and movements. This will result in an overall
reduction in air and noise pollution. The current practise resulting in roadside spillage of
fuel and lubricants from on-street buses under repair will be reduced if they use off-street
bus depot facilities, causing an overall reduction in soil and water pollution.
Road widenings, pedestrian footbridges and sidewalk improvements
The proposed roacl widenings will require the cutting and removal of some road side trees.
The resultant detrimental environmental impact will involve a reduction in habitats for birds,
and loss of greenery.
The road widenings, pedestrian footbridges and sidewalk improvements may also involve
some other minor negative environmental impacts, particularly during construction but
these should be offset by the improved traffic flow, overall reduction in motor vehicle
emissions, and reduction in traffic congestion and its consequent air and noise pollution
after construction.
78



New links
The new link roads would have affected some homesteads, biological environments (e.g.
trees and plants), home gardens and wetlands and other environmentally sensitive areas,
particularly immediately before and during construction of the new link roads. Delailed
surveys aind field investigations and amelioration plans would be required to minimize any
adverse environmental impacts, particularly during construction.
Tongi by-pass intersectionlroad improvements
No specific adverse environmental impact is anticipated after construction. One kutcha
drain along the existing ROW which comes from the Tongi industrial area may need to be
realigned and replaced prior to construction.
Priority route structures and underpasses for cycle-rickshaws
The proposed priority cycle-rickshaw routes and cycle-rickshaw underpasses will not
involve any negative environmental impacts. They will by-pass heavily trafficked
intersections and major road links, thus reducing traffic congestion whlich will lower the level
of air and noise pollution from motor vehicle emissions and traffic. congestion at lhese
intersections, and along these roads.
Truck depots/parks
The improvement of the existing truck parks will result in an overall positive environrmental
impact on city residents. It will result in the reduction of traffic congesl:ion caused by
haphazard truck parking along the roadsides, and the spillage cf fuel, lubricants etc.
caused by on-street truck repairs and maintenance. With properly managed truck parks, air
pollution and water pollution caused by the existing truck parking aireas will be improved
along with the improvement of the unhygienic conditions of the roadside areas previiously
occupied by the trucks for on-street parking, repairs and maintenance.
Rail-road overpasses and flyovers
Traffic congestion will be reduced as a result of the flyover improvements, thus reducing air
and noise pollution.
Parking
The improvement of vehicle parking facilities both off-street and on-street will help reduce
traffic congestion (and commensurate air and noise pollution), kesrbside soil and water
pollution, and contribute to an improvement in roadside sanitation. However, in the case of
the proposed Motijheel commercial area carparking plan, the replacement of all existing
and available public open space/parks with car parks will have a detrimental environmental
impact as a result of the removal of the currently remaining "green" spaces in this particular
locality.
79



APPENDIX 3
SUMMARY OF
CENSUS AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC
SURVEY OF DUTP PAPs
contents
Page
1. Loss of livelihood: Hawkers                                  1
2. Issue of vulnerability                                       4
3. Loss of business: Non-Residential Establishments             5
4. Occupational status of employees                             7
5. Loss of residential structures                               8
80



I



Summary of the Census and Socio-Economic Survey
Introduction
The proposed project civil works for improvement of the transportation and traffic movement with a
view to 'eliminating' road congestion are likely to affect people in different businesses, including
non-residential and residential establishments. Hence, through the socio-economic survey at
project sites, the extent of loss, to various degrees, has been documented to provide a
conceptualization of the Entitled Persons (EPs) and the Project Affected Persons (PAPs).
The survey essentially focused on three categories of affectees, namely Hawkers, Non-
Residential Establishments and Residential Establishments, which apparently constrain the Right-
of-Way (RoW). As such, the project will cause loss of livelihood, loss of business and loss of
residential quarters to people currently occupying the RoW. For civil works to proceed, the PAPs
or the displaced persons are to be covered under the proposed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
by means of adequate compensation and development assistance.
Loss of livelihood: Hawkers
Hawkers are aplenty at project sites, viz. flyovers, intersection, bus terminal, NMT Underpass, etc.
Of the hawkers, there are: Permanent Stall, Semi-Permanent Stall, and Other Vendors (open
footpath vendor, open road carriageway kerbside vendor, open parkland vendor, walking vendor
and other). Such hawker types were enumerated within the purview of the RoW requirements,
and, as such, the hawkers within the RoW will be affected as EPs and PAPs. For the survey
purposes, the coverage of hawkers were: Permanent Stall = 100%, Semi-Permanent Stall =
100%, and Other Vendors = 20% at flyover and bus terminal sites, and 15% at intersection, etc.
Thus, the results of the enumeration of hawkers are presented in Table 1, indicating the extent of
the affectees by types of hawkers.
Permanent Stall:
There are twenty - eight permanent stalls being operated by hawkers across the project sites,
wherein, on the average, slightly over Taka 50,000 are realised as monthly sale proceeds.
Although the physical structures of a permanent hawker stall is around fifty-six square feet, the
average cost of such a stall is around Taka 25,000. On the average, a hawker of a permanent stall
has to support over 6 dependents.
81



Table 1 : Loss of livelihood: Hawkers: Permanent Stalli
Site         Number       Average      Average size of  Average cost    Average
of Stalls   Monthly Sale    Hawker stall/   of Hawker    Numlaer of
(Tk.)      vending space       stall        farnily
(square feet)  infrastructure   members to
(Tk.)       support
Flyover:
Jatrabari           2            63000.00           40.00      45000.00        7
Mohakhali           4            57750.00           95.00      35250.00        6
Intersection:
Mouchak             1            60000.00           50.00       1000.00       3
Khilgaon            1            15000.00           48.00       3000.00       4
Rajarbagh           4            48375.00           42.25       6125.00       5
Malibagh            2            90000.00           85.00      37500.00       7
Topkhana            2            31500.00           61.00      29000.00       7
Kadam Chattar       1            36000.00           40.00       5000.00       9
Shapla Chattar      3           145000.00          101.33      22667.00       6
New Market          1            60000.00           40.00      70000.00       15
N-SlEnglish Road    1            15000.00           48.00      10000.00       5
Ittefaq             1            24000.00           40.00       3000.00       6
Golap Shah          2            45000.00           44.00      62500.00       7
Mazar
Bus Terminal:
Gabtali             2            30000.00           24.00       5275.00       7
NMT Underpass:
Tejgaon             1            60000.00           80.00      50000.00       6
Total           28           52042.00           55.90      25688.00       5.67
82



Table 1: Loss of livelihood: Hawkers: Semi-Permanent Stall
Site         Number       Average      Average size of  Average cost    Average
of Stalls   Monthly Sale     Hawker        of Hawker     Number of
(Tk.)       stalllvending      stall        family
space      infrastructure   members to
(square feet)     (Tk.)        support
Flyover:
Jatrabari           26           26134.00           20.32       4304.00        6
Mohakhali           5            66000.00           22.09       5800.00        6
Intersection:
Mouchak             7            31285.71           12.06       4586.00        4
Khilgaon            2           187500.00           24.00      11500.00        6
Rajarbagh           8            39000.00           15.75      10188.00        5
Fakirapool          -                               13.00             -       4
Moghbazar           -                                9.67             -       4
Kataban             2            31875.00            9.80      13000.00       8
Kakrail             2            33000.00           10.86       4000.00       5
Malibagh            1           210000.00           14.54       8000.00        5
Bijoynagar          1            15000.00           16.00       1500.00       4
Topkhana            -                               20.10             -        5
Kadam Chattar                                        6.00                     9
Shapla Chattar      1            27000.00           12.05             -       5
New Market          3            19000.00           20.13       2633.00       5
Sayedabad           5            12180.00           10.00       3000.00       7
N-S/English Road    1             6000.00           10.40      25000.00       5
Balda Garden        1            15000.00           13.00       3000.00       5
Ittefaq             1            24000.00            9.40       3000.00       4
Dholaikhal          -                                8.56             -       6
Zeropoint                                           10.12                      7
Golap Shah                                          14.28                     6
Mazar
Bus Terminal:
Gabtali             36           36108.33           15.93       6583.00        5
Sayedabad           11           62045.45           16.30       3918.00        5
Mohakhali           1            60000.00           20.30      15000.00        6
NMT Underpass:
Tejgaon             12           25500.00            6.50       7250.00        6
Total           126          48769.10           32.13        6990.00       6
83



Table 1: Loss of livelihood: Hawkers: Other Vendors
Site         Number       Average      Average size of  Average cost    Average
of Stalls   Monthly Sale     Hawker        of Hawker     Number of
(Tk.)       stallivending      stall        family
space .    infrastructure   members to
(square feet)     (Tk.)        support
Flyover:
Jatrabari           19           18710.53           20.32                      6
Mohakhali           27           51444.44           22.09                      6
Intersection:
Mouchak             32           34265.63           12.06             -       4
Khilgaon            13           73961.54           24.00             -       6
Rajarbagh           8            16350.00           15.75             -       5
Fakirapool          19           20131.56           13.00             -       4
Moghbazar           13           28500.00            9.67             -       4
Kataban             5            23400.00            9.80             -       8
Kakrail             14           24053.57           10.86             -       5
Malibagh            13           23076.92           14.54             -       5
Bijoynagar          2             9000.00           16.00             -       4
Topkhana            21           75900.00           20.10             -       5
Kadam Chattar       1            24000.00            6.00             -       9
Shapla Chattar     40            38145.00           12.05             -       5
New Market          24           37875.00           20.13             -       5
Sayedabad           3            14000.00           10.00             -       7
N-SlEnglish Road    5            11100.00           10.40             -       5
Balda Garden        4            12000.00           13.00             -       5
lttefaq             5            11700.00            9.40             -       4
Dholaikhal          9            28333.33            8.56             -       6
Zeropoint           25           25920.00           10.12             -       7
Golap Shah          71           25352.11           14.28             -       6
Mazar
Bus Terminal:
Gabtali             15           27800.00           15.93             .       5
Sayedabad           10           26400.00           16.30                     5
Mohakhali           10           30000.00           20.30                     6
NMT Underpass:
Tejgaon             2            26250.00            6.50                      6
Total           410          28371.90           13.51              -      5.69
84



At the flyover sites, Jatrabari has only two permanent stalls fetching a little over Taka 60,000 as
average monthly sale proceeds; the average stall size is relatively smaller, costing Taka 45,000
with 7 family members to support. Unlike Jatrabari, Mohakhali has four permanent stalls, realising
lesser amount of monthly sale proceeds with a relatively bigger stall size, its cost being lower, but
supports 6 dependents.
At the intersections, with the exceptions of Rajarbagh and Shapla Chattar, which have 4 and 3
permanent stalls respectively, others have one or two such stalls. Again, except for Shapla
Chattar and Malibagh, which realise monthly sale proceeds to the tune of nearly Taka one and a
half lakh and close to Taka one lakh respectively, lower order monthly sale proceeds being at
Khilgaon and N-S/English Road, others do business realising a monthly sale proceed ranging
from Taka 24,000 to Taka 60,000. The permanent stall size varies from 40 to 60 square feet,
excepting bigger sizes at Shapla Chattar and Malibagh respectively; a stall's cost appears higher
at New Market and Golap Shah Mazar, others being less costlier, with family members to support
being in the range of 3-7, with the exceptions of New Market and Kadam Chattar, where 15 and 9
dependents are supported respectively.
At the bus terminal, there are two permanent stalls, the monthly sale proceeds being, on the
average, Taka 30,000, and the average stall size is small, costing a little over Taka 5,000, with 7
dependents to support.
At the proposed NMT underpass, there is one permanent stall, the monthly sale proceeds realised
is Taka 60,000, and the stall size is eighty square feet, costing Taka 50,000, with 6 family
members to support.
Semi - Permanent Stall:
Those are 126 semi-permianent stalls of hawkers across the project sites, which realise, on the
average, monthly sale proceeds amounting nearly Taka 50,000, and the average stall size being
32 square feet, which costs Taka 7,000 with 6 dependents to support.
At the flyover sites, Jatrabtari has 26 semi-permanent stalls, which, on the average, fetch monthly
sale proceeds of more than Taka 25,000; the average stall size being smaller, costing a little over
Taka 4,000, with 6 family members to support. Mohakhali has 5 semi-permanent stalls, realising
monthly sale proceeds arnounting to Taka 66,000; the average stall size being smaller, costing
Taka 5,800, with 6 dependents to support.
At the intersections, except for Rajarbagh, Mouchak and Sayedabad, which have 8,7 and 5 semi-
permanent 'stalls, others range from 1-3 semi-permanent stalls. The average monthly sale
proceeds is atypical at Malibagh and Khilgaon, which realise over and nearly Taka two lakh
respectively, others range from Taka 6,000 to Taka 39,000. The average stall size is smaller
compared to the project sites average, costing, ih the higher order, in an is dated instance, Taka
25,000 and the least being Taka 1,500, with 5-6 family members to support, exceptions being
Kadam Chattar, Kataban, Sayedabad and Zero Point, where 9,8 and 7 family members are being
supported respectively.
At the bus terminals, Gabtali has 36 semi-permanent stalls, monthly sales being over Taka
35,000; the stall size is quite small, costing over Taka 6,000, with 5 dependents to support.
Similarly, Sayedabad ad Mohakhali have 11 and 1 semi-permanent stalls respectively, monthly
85



sale proceeds of each amount to at least Taka 60,000; the stall sizes are smaller, costing Taka
15,000 at Mohalkhali and. only Taka 4,000 at Sayedabad, with 6 and 5 family members to support
respectively.
At the proposed NMT underpass, there are 12 semi-permanent stalls, monthly sale proceeds
being over Taka 25,000; the stall size being quite small, costing over Taka 7,000, with 6
dependents to support.
Other Vendors:
There are 410 stalls of other vendors, which realise an average of nearly Taka 30,000 monthly as
sale proceeds; the stall size being quite small, with nearly 6 family members to support.
At the flyover sties, Jatrabari has 19 other vendors stalls, monthly sale procee(is being nearly
Taka 20,000; the stall size is relatively smaller, with 6 dependents to support. Similarly, Mohakhali
has 27 other vendors stalls, realising monthly sale proceeds amounting to over Taka 50,000; the
stall size is relatively smaller, with 6 family members to support.
At the intersections, Golap Shah Mazar, Shapla Chattar, Mouchak, Zero Point and New Market
have most other vendors stalls, 71, 40, 32, 25, and 24 respectively, with others the range is from 1
to 21, realising monthly sale proceeds variously in the range of Taka 9,000 and nearly Taka
80,000; the stall size is relatively smaller for most, below the project average, with 4-6 dependents
to support, excepting Kadam Chattar and Kataban where 9 and 8 family members being
supported respectively.
At the bus terminals, Gabtali has 15 other vendors stalls, while Sayedabad and Mohakhali have
1 0 other vendors stalls each, monthly sale proceeds range from over Taka 25,000 to Taka 30,000;
the stall size being relatively smaller, but above the average project size, with 5-6 family members
to support.
At the proposed NMT underpass, there are 2 other vendors stalls, monthly sale proceeds being
over Taka 25,000; the stall size is quite small, much below the average project size, with 6
dependents to support.
Issue of Vulnerability
Considering the socio-economic status of hawkers, viz. the earning of income from hawking to
support the family and dependents, a threshold monthly income index of Taka 3,500 divides the
vulnerability line. As such, the hawkers, whose monthly income, largely from sale proceeds, is
Taka 3,500 or less are vulnerable and above the threshold monthly income level of Taka :3,500 is
non-vulnerable (Table 1A).
Permanent Stall:
At flyover sites, the hawkers all are non-vulnerable.
Similarly, at the intersections, all hawkers are non-vulnerable.
86



sale proceeds of each amount to at least Taka 60,000; the stall sizes are smaller, costing Taka
15,000 at Mohakhali and only Taka 4,000 at Sayedabad, with 6 and 5 family members to support
respectively.
At the proposed NMT underpass, there are 12 semi-permanent stalls, monthly sale proceeds
being over Taka 25,000; the stall size being quite small, costing over Taka 7,000, with 6
dependents to support.
Other Vendors:
There are 410 stalls of other vendors, which realise an average of nearly Taka 30,000 monthly as
sale proceeds; the stall size being quite small, with nearly 6 family members to support.
At the flyover sties, Jatrabari has 19 other vendors stalls, monthly sale proceeds being nearly
Taka 20,000; the stall size is relatively smaller, with 6 dependents to support. Similarly, Mohakhali
has 27 other vendors stalls, realising monthly sale proceeds amounting to over Taka 50,000; the
stall size is relatively smaller, with 6 family members to support.
At the intersections, Golap Shah Mazar, Shapla Chattar, Mouchak, Zero Point and New Market
have most other vendors stalls, 71, 40, 32, 25, and 24 respectively, with others the range is from 1
to 21, realising monthly sale proceeds variously in the range of Taka 9,000 and nearly Taka
80,000; the stall size is relatively smaller for most, below the project average, with 4-6 dependents
to support, excepting Kadam Chattar and Kataban where 9 and 8 family members being
supported respectively.
At the bus terminals, Gabtali has 15 other vendors stalls, while Sayedabad and Mohakhali have
10 other vendors stalls each, monthly sale proceeds range from over Taka 25,000 to Taka 30,000;
the stall size being relatively smaller, but above the average project size, with 5-6 family members
to support.
At the proposed NMT underpass, there are 2 other vendors stalls, monthly sale proceeds being
over Taka 25,000; the stall size is quite small, much below the average project size, with 6
dependents to support.
-Issue of Vulnerability
Considering the socio-economic status of hawkers, viz. the earning of income from hawking to
support the family and dependents, a threshold monthly income index of Taka 3,500 divides the
vulnerability line. As such, the hawkers, whose monthly income, largely from sale proceeds, is
Taka 3,500 or less are vulnerable and above the threshold monthly income level of Taka 3,500 is
non-vulnerable (Table IA).
Permanent Stall:
At flyover sites, the hawkers all are non-vulnerable.
Similarly, at the intersections, all hawkers are non-vulnerable.
86






The hawkers at the Gabtali bus terminal are all non-vulnerable.
Again, the hawker at the ND/T underpass is non-vulnerable.
Semi-Permanent Stall:
At flyover sites, the hawkers are all non-vulnerable.
At the intersections, all hawkers are non-vulnerable.
Similarly, at the bus terminals, except for an instance of being vulnerable, all hawkers are non-
vulnerable.
The hawker at the NMT underpass is vulnerable.
87



Table IA: Economic Threshold of Hawkers: Permanent Stall
Site                                          Economic Threshold
Vulnerable            Non-Vulnerable               Total
Flyover:
Jatrabari                                  0                        2                      2
Mohakhali                                  0                        4                      4-
Intersection:
Mouchak                                    0                        1                      I
Khilgaon                                  0                         1                      1
Rajarbagh                                 0                        4                       '4
Fakirapool                                                                                 ..
Moghbazar                                                                                 ..
Kataban                                                                                   ..
Kakrail                                                                                   ..
Mal ibag,h                                0                        2
Bijoynagar
Topkhana                                  0                        2                       2
Kadam Chattar                             0                         1
Shapla Chattar                            0                        3                       .3
New Market                                0                         1                      1
Sayedabad
N-S/English Road                          0                         1                      1
Balda Garden
Ittefaq                                   0                         I                      1
Dholaikhal
Zeropoint
Golap Shah Mazar                          0                        2                       2
Bus Terminal:
Gabtali                                   0                        2                       2
Sayedabad
Mohakhali
NMT Underpass:
Tejgaon                                    0                        1                      1
Total                             0                       28                     28
88



Table 1A: Economic Threshold of Hawkers: Semi-Permanent Stall
Site                                            Economic Threshold
Vulnerable             Non-Vulnerable               Total
Flyover:
Jatrabari                                   0                        26                      26
Mohakhali                                   0                         5                       5
Intersection:
Mouchak                                     0                         7                       7
Khilaon                                    0                                                 2
Rajarbagh                                   0                        8                        8
Fakirapool                                  0
Moghbazar                                   0                    .                            -
Kataban                                     0                        2                       2
Kakrail                                     0                        2                       2
Malibagh                                    0                        1                        1
Bijoynagar                                  0                        1
Topkhana                                    0
Kadam Chattar                              0
Shapla Chattar                             0                         1                       1
New Market                                  0                        3                       3
Sayedabad                                   0                        5                       5
N-S/English Road                            0                         1                       1
Ba1da Garden                                0 O
Ittefaq                                     0 O
Dholaikhal                                  0
Zeropoint                                   0
Golap Shah Mazar                            0
Bus Terminal:
Gabtali                                     2                        34                      36
Sayedabad                                   0                        11                      11
Mohakhali                                   0                         1
NMT Underpass:
Tejgaon.                                    I                       1                         I
3                       123                     126
89



Table 1A: Economic Threshold of Hawkers: Other Vendors
Site                                            Economic Threshold
Vulnerable             Non-Vulnerable               Tot.l
Flyover:
Jatrabari                                   I                         18                      19
Mohakhali                                   0                        27                      27
Intersection:
Mouchak                                     1                        31                      32
Khilgaon                                    0                        13                      13
Rajarbagh                                   1                         7                       8
Fakirapool                                  0                        19                      19
Moghbazar                                   1                        12                      13
Kataban                                     0                        5                       5
Kakrail                                     I                        13                      14
Malibagh                                   0                         13                      13
Bijoynagar                                  0                        2                       2
Topkhana                                    0                        21                      21
Kadam Chattar                              0                         1                        1
Shapla Chattar                             0                         40                      40
New Market                                  0                        24                      24
Sayedabad                                   0                        3                       3
N-S/English Road                            0                         5                      5
Balda Garden                                0                        4                       4
Ittefaq                                     0                        5                       5
Dholaikhal                                  0                        9                       9
Zeropoint                                   0                        25                      25
Golap Shah Mazar                            0                        71                      71
Bus Terminal:
Gabtali                                     0                        15 1c                    5
Sayedabad                                   0                        10                      10
Mohakhali                                   0                        10                      10
NMT Underpass:
Tejgaon                                     0                         2                       2
Total                              s                       405                     410
90



Other Vendors:
At the flyover sites, except for an instance of being vulnerable at Jatrabari, all hawkers are non-
vulnerable.
At the intersections, while there are isolated instances of hawkers being vulnerable at Mouchak
and Kakrail, all hawkers at each site are non-vulnerable.
At the bus terminals, all the hawkers are non-vulnerable.
Similarly, at the proposed NMT underpass, all the hawkers are non-vulnerable.
Loss; of Business: Non-Residential Establishments
Each type of business establishment such as Retail, Personal Services, etc. fetches an income,
while each employed person is to help in business, with monthly salary of employees paid. Loss of
business will affect the monthly income of the business operator as well as the employees working
for the type of business establishment.
As evident form Table 2, there are 305 Retail, 6 Private Office, 241 Personal Services, 5 Health
Centre/Clinic, 1 Industry (including workshop), 3 Warehouse (including store) and 18 Others will
be affected to cause loss of business, with average monthly income of the business being over
Taka 60,000 for retail businesses, over Taka 2 lakh for personal services, about Taka 9,000 for
warehouse (including store), and over Taka 20,000 for other establishments. Health Centre/Clinic,
follow/ed by Personal Services, employed 5.5 and 4.5 persons respectively to help with business,
other establishments empiloyed persons ranging from 1.0 to 4.0, with average monthly salary of an
employee being over Taka 1,500 for Retail, over Taka 2,000 for Personal Services, nearly Taka
3,000 for Health Centre/Clinic, Taka 2,000 for Warehouse (including store), and over Taka 1,500
for Other establishments.
Flyo/er:
Jatrabari has 148 Retail, 2 Private Offices, 15 Personal Services, 3 Health Centres/Clinics, 3
Warehouses (including store), 1 Industry (including workshop) and 2 Other establishments, with
an average monthly incoime of establishments being nearly Taka 50,000 for retail, nearly Taka
40,000 for personals services, nearly Taka 9,000 for warehouses (including store), Taka 20,000
for other establishments, etc. The average number of employees is 4 each is retail, personal
services and health centre/clinic, while there are 2 employees in warehouses (including store) and
one each in industry (including workshop) and other business establishments, the employees
each receiving over Taka 1,500 per moth as salary for retail, over Taka 2,000 in personal
services, Taka 1,400 in health centre/clinic, Taka 2,000 each in warehouse (including store) and
other business establishments. Similarly, Mohakhali has 88 retail, 31 personal services and 2
heall:h centre/clinic establishments, the monthly income of each establishment being over Taka
2.50 lakh for retail, nearly Taka 50,000 for personal services, etc. Five persons each have been
employed in retail and personal services businesses, while the heath centres/clinics have
employed 7 persons, with monthly salary of employees being over Taka 2,500 for retail around
Taka 2,500 for personal services and over Taka 3,000 for health centre/clinic.
Inte!rsection:
91



Mouchak has 20 retail and 16 personal services business establishments, the monthly incorne of
an establishment being nearly Taka 30,000 for retail and around Taka 60,000 for personal
services businesses; the retail and personal services businesses employed 4 persons each with a
monthly salary of employees at Taka 1,800 for retail and over Taka 1,500 for personal services.
Khilgaon has 16 retail and 5 personal services business establishments, the monthly income of an
establishment being Taka 86,000 for retail and over Taka 60,000 for personal services, employing
4 and 3 persons respectively, with the monthly salary of an employee being over Taka 1,600 and
nearly Taka 2,000 respectively.
Rajarbagh has 6 retail and 1 personal services business establishments, the monthly incorne of
an establishment being over Taka 30,000 of retail and Taka 15,000 for personal services,
employing 2 anid 7 persons respectively, with the monthly employee salary being nearly Taka
1,500 and nearly Taka 1,400 respectively.
Fakirapool has only one retail business establishment, earning Taka 35,000 a month, employing 5
persons, with emnployee monthly salary of Taka 1,550.
Similarly, Moghbazar has 4 retail business establishments, earning nearly Taka 90,000 a month,
employing 3 persons, with employee monthly salary of over Taka 700 only.
Bus Terminal:
Gabtali has only one retail business outlet, fetching a monthly income of Taka 10,900, employing
2 persons, with an average monthly salary of Taka 2,000; there are 136 peisonal seivices
establishments, the monthly income of an establishment being over Taka 1 lakh, employing, on
the average, 6 persons with a monthly salary of each being over Taka 3,000. Similarly, there are 6
other business establishments, earning over Taka 20,000 a month, employing 2 persons each at
an average salary of nearly Taka 1,500.
Mohakhali has 7 retail, 3 private offices, 17 personal services and 10 other business
establishments, the monthly income of retail business being Taka 7,800, of personal services
being over 1.5 lakh, etc., employing 2,1, 4 and 1 persons respectively, with a monthly employee
salary being around Taka 250 for retail, over Taka 1,500 for personal services, etc
Sayedabad has 14 retail, 1 private office and 20 personal services business establishments,
earning over Taka 13,000 for retail and over Taka 55,000 for personal services, elc., employing 2,
1 and 3 persons respectively, with monthly salary of an employee being over Taka 1,500 each for
retail as well as personal services business establishments.
Occupational Status of Employees
According to Table 2A, employees in service far outdistance management position in non-
residential establishments.
Retail business establishments are prolific at flyover sites, followed by the personal services
business establishments, and other establishments trailing behind, with most frequencies of the
employees being in service in contrast to management position, the latter indicates owner-
operated businesses.
92



Similar is the trend with business establishments at intersections, except for Rajarbagh
intersection, where self-opeirated retail businesses are preponderant.
At the bus terminals, the employees in service are concentrated around the personal services
busine ss operations ovenrhelmingly rather than a few owner-operated personal services
businessmen.
93



Table 2: Loss of Business: Non-Residential Establishmenits
Site/Type of Establishments      Number of       Average Monthly       Average      Average Monthly
Establishments       Income of         Number of         Salary of
Establishments     Employees    Employees (Tk.)
(Tk.)
Flyover:
Jatrabari:
Retail                             148                   49456.20        4             1843.37
Private Office                      2                           -        -
Personal Services                  15                    38750.00        4             2208.96
Health Centre/Clinic                3                           -       4              1400.00
Warehouse (including store)         3                     8750.00       2              2000.00
Industry (including                 I                           -        I
workshop)
Other Establishments                2                    20000.00        1             2000.00
Mohakhali
Retail                             88                   277012.35       5             2646.87
Personal Services                  31                    48179.31       5              25.35.66
Health Centre/Clinic               2                            -       7             30.28.57
Intersection:
Mouchak:
Retail                             20                    28388.89       4              1800.76
Personal Services                  16                    61232.14       4              1623.88
Khilgaon:
Retail                             16                    86000.00       4              1630.36
Personal Services                   5                    15200.00       3              1966.67
Rajarbagh:
Retail                              6                    32125.00       2              1461.54
Personal Services                   1                    15000.00       7              12392.86
Fakirapool:
Retail                              1                    35000.00        5             1550.00
Moghbazar:
Retail                             4                     88750.00       3              727.28
Bus Terminal:
Gabtali:
Retail                              1                    10000.00        2             2000.00
Personal Services                  136                  135972.20        6             3031,33
Other Establishments                6                    21940.00        2             1430.77
Mohakhali:
Retail                              7                     7800.00        2             224.73
Private Office                      3                           -
Personal Services                  17                   154555.56        4             1607.49
Other Establishments               10                           -        I
Sayedabad:
Retail                             14                    13230.77        2             i 876.92
Private Office                      I                           -
Personal Services                  20                    56866.67        3             1762.22
94



Site/Type of Establishments      Number of       Average Monthly       Average      Average Monthly
Establishments       Income of         Number of         Salary of
Establishments     Employees    Employees (Tk.)
(Tk.)
Total:
Retzil                             305                   60675.44       3.3             1576.18
Private Office                      6                           -       1.0
Personal Services                  241                  226083.99       4.5            2016.13
Health Centre/Clinic                5                           -       5.5            2914.28
Industry (including                 I                           -       1.0
workshop)
Warehouse (including store)         3                     8750.00       2.0            2000.00
Oth .rs                            18                    20970.00       1.3            1715.39
95



Table 2A: Occupational Status of Employees: Non-Residential Establishments
Site                            Service             Management                Total
Flyover:
Jatrabari:
Retail                                         3 15                   130                   445
Personal Services                              52                      15                   67
Health Centre/clinic                            5                      3                     8
Industry                                                               l I
Warehouse                                       4                      1                     5
Other Establishments                            1                                            I
Mohakhali:
Retail                                         311                    88                   399
Personal Services                              100                    29                    129
Health Centre/clinic                            6                      l                    7
Intersection:
Mouchak:
Retail                                         44                     22                    66
Personal Services                              49                     18                    67
Khilgaon:
Retail                                         40                     16                    56
Personal Services                              11                      4                    1 5;
Rajarbagh:
Retail                                          6                      7                    1:
Personal Services                               6                      I                    7
Fakirapool:
Retail                                          3                      l                    4
Moghbazar:
Retail                                          7                      4                    11
Bus Terminal:
Gabtali:
Retail   .                                      2                                           2
Govt. Office                                   20                                           2')
Personal Services                              737                    22                   7f9
Other Establishments                            12                     1                    13
Mohakhali:
Retail                                          5                      6                    11
Private Office                                                         3
Govt. Office                                                           2
Personal Services                              59                      10                   69
Religion                                        7                                            7
Other                                                                  10                   10
Sayedabad:
Retail                                         13                     15                    28
Private Office                                                         I                     I
Govt. Office                                    2                                            7
Personal Services                              47                     20                    67
Religion                                                               I                     I
Total                            1864                    432                  2296
96



Loss of Residential Structure
By means of the Residential questionnaire, the residential structures which lie on the RoW were
enumerated. The affected residences are situated at intersections and link road sites. Table 3
shows the breakdown of residential structures affected by site categories: Intersection = 3, and
Link Road = 7.
Of the total number of resiciences affected, each residential quarter contains a single household.
As such, 10 households are, in effect, affected because of the RoW requirements.
There are, on average, 3.2 males and 1.8 females in a household, thus the average household
size is 5.0.
Of the total number of residiential structures affected, 2 structures are pucca. (Forty-year -old), 1 is
semi-pucca and 7 are slum dwellings ('Jhupri').
The average monthly household income is slightly over Taka 9,000, although this figure is
overshadowed by 'vulnerable' income levels of slum dwellers. Without the overshadowing effect
on the average monthly household income, it would have stood at Taka 13,000, thus the affectees
are well above the threshold vulnerable monthly income level of Taka 3,500. The "vulnerable"
households such as slum dwellers are to be covered under the appropriate RAP structure in
consonance with the provisions of the World Bank O.D 4.30.
The monthly expenditure pattern of the household, although, on an average, higher than the
monthly average householid income, the difference in expenditure is great at Khilgaon intersection
only, indicating household monthly savings, and a minimal monthly savings of slum dwelling
families.
97



Table  3   Loss of Residential Structure
Location               No. of        No. of          Household size             Type of Dwelling          Total Monthly          Total Monthly
Residences   lIouseholds                                                           Household Income          Household
Affected                                                                              (Average)            Expenditure
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____   __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___(A v erag e)
Male   Female   Total   Pucca    Semi-  "Kutcha              (Taka)                (Taka)
Pucca
INTERSECTION:  |
Khilgaon                                           6 I  6            7                                          20,000 (NV)                 12,000
Moghbazar                2              2          6        3        9       2*                                  6,000 (NV)                  6,000
LINK ROAD:
Banani, Road No. I        7             7         20       14       34        -                  7                 1,500 (V)                 1,400
(Slum Dwellings)
Total                    10            10         32       18       50        2        1         7                     9167                  6467
Key: NV= Non-Vulinerable                     Note: Vulnierability cut-off line is monitlily houseliold incomile of Taka 3,500.
V = Vulnerable
* Forty - year - old small - size structures.



APPENDIX 4
ACTIVITY SCHEDULE FOR DUTP
lIAND ACQUISTION, RESETTLEMENT
AND CONSTRUCTION WORKS



I
I



APPENDIX 5
DUTP LAND ACQUISITION AND
RESETTLEMENT COST ESTIMATES






ANNEXURE
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT ............................................                                                      4
SOCIAL IMPACTS AND RESETTLEMENT: ............................................                                           6
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN .............................................                                                  6
1.   INTRODUCTION AND 013JECTIVES ........................................................6
1.1  Background .........6................................................6
1.2    Bangladesh and World B3ank requirements regarding displacement ...........6
1.3    The need for resettlement in the project ........................................................7
WORK ............................................                                                                       9
PACKAGES ............................................                                                                  9
2. IMPACTS AND ENTITLEMENTS .......................................................9
2.1  Types of impact to be addressed .......................................................9
2.2     Summary entitlement matrix ........................................................9
2.4     Resettlement sites .......................................................                                12
2.5     Support principles for different categories of impact .......................................................  13
2.6     Entitlement policy framework matrix ....................................................... 19
CATEGORY 1: LOSS OF LAND AND TREES THEREON ..................................... 22
Category 3: Loss of residential and associated structures .......................................................   26
DETAILS ..................................                                                                            26
CATEGORY 5: LOSS OF lJSUFRUCT RIGHTS THROUGH MORTGAGE OR LEASE 29
C. VICINITY OF IMPACT: INDIRECT GROUP-ORIENTED IMPACTS. SUPPORT GIVEN TO
COLLECTIVE GROUPS ..................................                                                                  37.
3.   AREAS OF IMPACT                     ..................................................... 38
4. PHASED APPROACH ........................................... 38-
5. SOCIAL ASSESSMENT, CENSUS AND SURVEY                                       .        .         ................................ 39
5.1     Social assessment .......................................... 39
5.2     Census and baseline sociio- economic survey ..........................................                    41
BUSINESS TYPE ..................................                                                                       43
TOTAL ..................................                                                                               43
Locations ...........................................                                                             43
5.3 Cut-off date ........................................... 45
6. CO-ORDINATION BETWEEN CIVIL WORKS AND RESETTLEMENT ....................................... 45
6.1 Screening and planning ..........................................................                             45
6.2  Implementation .......................................................... 46
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Summary Budget ..........................................................       50



8.  PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION PROCESS .                        .     .    .......................................... 51
8.1 Stakeholder participation ............................................. 51
8.2 Options and Choices for Project Affected People ............................................ 52
8.3 Information Campaigns ............................................                                 52
9.  GRIEVANCE REDRESS PROCESS .............................................    .       .                 52
9.1 Valuation Process for Acquired Assets .............................................. 52
9.2 Annual Adjustment of Compensation ............................................. 53
9.3 Grievance Procedure and Information Dissemination    ....................    ......................... 53
9.4 Steps for public consultation ............................................. ..                    54
10.    INSTITUTPIONAL ARRANGEMENTS                                .      .       .      .............. ............... 55
10.1 Overall co-ordination .55
10.2 Zone-level sub-committees .58
10.3  Resettlement and rehabilitation staff .58
10.4 Collaboration with local NGOs .59
10.5 Co-ordination with other Government agencies .60
10.6 Transparency and accountability .60
10.7 Improvement in policy and practice .60
10.8 Flow of'Funds .60
11.    MONITORING AND EVALUATION .                   ................................  .                60
TOTAL ...                                                                                                138
TOTAL ...                                                     ,                                           39
TOTAL ...                                                     d90



|   Site/Type of Establishment                    Hawkers                     Non-Residential          Residential Establishments
Establishments
Permanen        Semi-         Other                              Pucca       Semi-      "Kutcha"
t Stall    Permanent       Vendors                                         Pucca
Stall
Fakirapool                        0              0             19
Retail                                                                        I
Moghbazar                         0             0              13                                2
Retail                                                                       4
Kataban                           0             0              5                0
Kakrail                           0             2              14               0
Malibagh                          0             2              13               0
Bijoynagar                        2              1             2                0
Topkhana                          0              1            21                0
Kadam Chattar                     2             0              1                 0
Shapla Chattar                    1             0             40                 0
New Market                        3              1             24                0
Sayedabad                         1             3              3                0
N-S/English Road                  0              5             5                 0
Balda Garden                      1              1             4                 0
Ittefaq                           0              1             5                 0
Dholaikhal                        1              1             9                 0
Zero Point                        0              0            25                 0
Golap Shah Mazar                  2             0             71                 0
Bus Terminal
Gabtali                           2             36             15
Retail                                                                        I
Personal Services                                     |            |         136
Other                                                                        6
Mohakhali                         0              1             10
Retail                         -              -                              7
Private Office                                                               3



REQUIRED '''??!!??????!''???????????'!!??????
???? Table 1: Hawkers, Non-Residential and Residential Establishments Affected
Site/Type of Establishment                     Hawkers                      Non-Residential          Residential Establishments
Establishments_ _
Permanen  Semi-         - Other                                  Pucca       Semi-        "Kutcha";
t Stall     Permanent        Vendors                                         Pucca
Stall
Flyover
Jatrabari                          2              26             19
Retail                                         -              -                148
Private Office                                 -              -                 2
Personal Services                                                              15
Health Centre/Clinic                           -              -                 3
Warehouse (including store)     -              -              -                 3
Industry (incl. workshop)       -              -              -                 1
Other                                          -              -                 2
Mohakhali                          4              5             27
Retail                                         -              -                88
Personal Services                                                              31
Health Centre/Clinic            -                      -                        2
Intersection
Mouchak                            1              7              32
Retail                                                                         20
Personal Services                                                               16
T7LZ I             1              1             1'2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Retail                                                                          16
Personal Services               -              --                               5
Rajarbagh                        4              8              8      |
Retail                                                                          6
Personal Services                                                               I
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l



Personal Services                                                            17
Other                                                                        10
Site/Type of Establishment                   Hawkers                     Non-Residential          Residential Establishments
Establishments
Permanen        Semi-         Other                              Pucca  l  Semi-        "Kutcha"
t Stall    Permanent       Vendors                                        Pucca
Stall
Sayedabad                            0             11               
Retail                                                                       14
Private Office                                                               I
Personal Services                             -             -                20
NMT Underpass
Tejgaon                         1             12             2
Link Road
Banani, Road 11
7
Total                           28           126            410      *Retail 305               2*                      7**
Private Office = 6
Personal Services =
241
Health Centre/Clinic
=5
Warehouse (including
store) = 3
Industry (including
workshop)= I
Other = 18
*    Forty-year-old small-sized structures
**   Slum dwellings ("Jhupri")



Indicative Schedule of Resettlement Tasks (activity required at one typical site)
Week
*reeke JLDoercshil;^-   d    -  A 1: r- 7 St a n 4    < n 4  A ,)v    d4 C4 47 C)
T2aksro4-- .3. -4-pans               .                           . i-144   _
Phase 1- RAP Institutions Establishment
1. IDA Board approval of DUTP loan
2. DCC establish resettlement organisational
structure and RAP implementation mechanisms
3. DCC prelpares acquisition proposal by Mouza
4. DCC submits proposal, defining impact area
5. DC approval of LA proposal
6. PIU & NG0 update census in impact area
Phase 2- RAP Consultations and Eviction Notic as
7. NGO consultations with PAPs about the project
8. DC gives Section 3 or DCC gives eviction
notice & N(G0 presents entitlement options
9. NGO takes photos for ID cards
10. DC/DCC valuation of properties, NGO group
consultationis & community involvement
Phase 3- Issuance of RAP ID Cards
11. DC Section 6 notice, NGO follow-up
consultationi and finalize choice of option
12. DC Section 7 notice
13. NGO issues ID cards listing options agreed to
on entitlements & support mechanisms
14. PIU updates information on project impacts &
adjust RAP spreadsheets and budgets
Phase 4- P'AP Displacement
15. PIU/NGO implement resettlement, including
special assistance to vulnerable
16. NGO documents that relocation, resettlement,
compensation & support are adequate
Phase 5- Civil Works
17. PIU coimmence works only after RAP
implementation effectively cleared project site
Phase-6-NGO/PJU-Monitoring & Evaluation of Displa6edA2----                                 2



Dhaka Urban Transport Project
RESETTLEMENTACTION PLAN
.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Resettlement Action Plan: Explanatory Statement
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT ............................................                                           4
SOCIAL IMPACTS AND  RESETTLEMENT: ............................................                               6
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN ............................................                                        6
1.  INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES ..........................................................6
1.1  Background ...........6................................................6
1.2    Bangladesh and World Bank requirements regarding displacement ...................................................6
1.3    The need for resettlement in the project ..........................................................7
WORK ............................................                                                            9
PACKAGES ............................................                                                        9
2. IMPACTS AND ENTITLEMENTS ..........................................................9
2.1 Types of impact to be addressed                                   .9
2.2    Summary entitlement rnatrix .....................................................9
2.4    Resettlement sites ....................................................                          12
2.5    Support principles for different categories of impact ....................................................  13
2.6    Entitlement policy framework matrix ....................................................         19
CATEGORY 1: LOSS OF LAND AND TREES THEREON ..................................... 22
Category 3: Loss of residential and associated structures ........................................................  26
DETAILS ............................................                                                        26
CATEGORY 5: LOSS OF USUFRUCT RIGHTS THROUGH MORTGAGE OR LEASE 29
C. VICINITY OF IMPACT: INDIRECT GROUP-ORIENTED IMPACTS. SUPPORT GIVEN TO
COLLECTIVE GROUPS ............................................                                              37
3. AREAS OF IMPACT ***** ***  ....                                                             .................. 38
4. PHASED APPROACH ...........................                          .       .       .                 38
5. SOCIAL ASSESSMENT, CENSUS AND SURVEY                                         ..... 39
5.1    Social assessment                  ............................................. 39
5.2    Census and baseline socio-economic survey .......................................... . .         41
BUSINESS TYPE ..................................                                                            43



TOTAL                                                 ... 43
Locations...43
5.3 Cut-off date                 ..45
6. CO-ORDINAT'ION BETWEEN CIVIL WORKS AND RESETTLEMENT   ...                                        45
6.1 Screening and planning ............................................ .                         45
6.2 Implementation                        .             .            .46
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Summary Budget                         .       .       .        50
8. PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION PROCESS                             . . .51
8.1 Stakeholder participation                                ...                                   51
8.2 Options and Choices for Project Affected People            .       .       .52
8.3 Information Campaigns                      .           .            .52
9. GRIEVANCE REDRESS PROCESS                              . . .52
9.1 Valuation Process for Acquired Assets ............................................   .         52
9.2 Annual Adjustment of Compensation              ..53
9.3 Grievance Procedure and Information Dissemination        ..53
9.4 Steps for public consultation                 .          .           .54
10. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANG EMENTS                                        . . . 55
10.1   Overall co-ordination ................................ 55
10.2   Zone-level sub-committees ................................                                58
10.3     Resettlement and rehabilitation staff ................................                  58
10.4   Collaboration with local NGOs ................................                            59
10.5   Co-ordination with other Government agencies ................................ 60
10.6   Transparency and accountability ................................                          60
10.7  Improvement in policy and practice ................................                        60
10.8   Flow of Funds ................................                                            60
11. MONITORING AND EVALUATION                               . . .60
TOTAL                                                  .138
TOTAL ...    I                                                                                       139
TOTAL .90



