Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18339-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 129.3 MILLION (US$177 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR
DHAKA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
DECEMBER 17, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Bangladesh Country Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Taka
US$1 = Taka 48.5
FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -      Asian Development Bank
BRTA          -      Bangladesh Road Transport Authority
BRTC          -      Bangladesh Road Transport Corporation
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
DCC           -      Dhaka City Corporation
DMA           -      Dhaka Metropolitan Area
DMP           -      Dhaka Metropolitan Police
DOE           -      Department of Environment (of the MOEF)
DUTP          -      Dhaka Urban Transport Project
EIA           -      Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR          -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
GDTPCB        -      Greater Dhaka Transport Planning and Coordination Board
GOB           -      Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
ICB           -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA           -      International Development Association
LGD           -      Local Government Division (of the MLGRDC)
LGED          -      Local Government Engineering Department
MLGRDC        -      Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development & Cooperatives
MOC           -      Ministry of Communications
MOEF          -      Ministry of Environment and Forest
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
MOHA          -      Ministry of Home Affairs
NCB           -      National Competitive Bidding
O&M           -      Operation and maintenance
NMT           -      Non-motorized transport
PCC           -      Public Consultative Committee
PCU           -      Project Coordination Unit
PIU           -      Project Implementation Unit
PD            -      Project Director
RAJUK         -      Rajadhani Unnayan Karthpakhya (Capital City Development Authority)
RAP           -      Resettlement Action Plan
RHD           -      Roads and Highways Department (of the MOC)
RRD           -      Roads and Railways Division (Ministry of Communications)
VOC           -      Vehicle operating cost
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Frederick Temple
Sector Manager: Frannie Humplick
Team Leader/Task Leader: Thampil Pankaj



BANGLADESH
Dhaka Urban Transport Project
CONTENTS
A:  PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT  OBJECTIVE  ................................                                               ....................................... 2
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ............................................ 2
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT ........................................................................                                                                 2
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ........... 2
2. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRA PEGY ...........                                  .......  ............2........................................... 2
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ....................................... 5
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .......................................................................                                                        5
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS ...................................................................... 5
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ...........                                                                              6
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION  ...................................................................... 8
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS ............................... ....................................... 8
D:  PROJECT  RATIONALE  ...................................................................... I I
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND  REASONS FOR REJECTION: .................................................. I 1
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES .......... 12
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN  ...........                                     .......  .......................................... 12
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ..................                                                  ........................... 12
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK  SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT ............................................. 13
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS .............................................. 13
1. ECONOMIC ............................................. 13
2. FINANCIAL .............................................                                                                                               14
3. TECHNICAL: ..............................................                                                                                            14
4. INSTITUTIONAL: .............................................. 15
5. SOCIAL: ...................................................................       .        .       ,       .       ,       .       ,       .       . 15
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ...................................................................                                                         16
7. PARTICIPATORY  APPROACH  .................................................................. 1 7
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ..................................................................                                                              17
1. SUSTAINABILITY ..................................................................                                                                    17
2. CRITICAL RISKS ..................................................................  18
3.  POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS ..................................................................                                                  20
G: MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS ..................................................................                                                                21
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS: ................................................................................... 21
2. OTHER [CLASSIFY ACCORDIN(; TO COVEINAN T IxYPS USED IN THE LEGAL AGREEMENTS.]: .................. 21
H.  READINESS  FOR  IMPLEMENTATION  .....................                                                ............................................. 22
1. COMPLIANCE  WITH   BANK  POLICIES  ......................                                              ............................................. 22



Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.     Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Maps
IBRD 29771 - Bangladesh - Project Area
IBRD 29772 - Dhaka Metropolitan Area (DMA)
IBRD 29841 - Main Project Components



BANGLADESH
Dhaka Urban Transport Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Region
Date: December 17, 1998                            Team Leader/Task Leader: Thampil Pankaj
Country Director: Fredlerick Temple                Sector Manager: Frannie Humplick
Project ID: BD-PA-9524  Sector: Transportation     Program Objective Category: EN
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:  []  Yes  [xl No
Project Financing Data               [  Loan    [x]  Credit        [  Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/01thers:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): SDR 129.3 million (US$177.0 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                       [x]  Multi-currency    [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 [I   Standard Variable  [x] Fixed                  []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                               44.1                                44.1
Cofinanciers
IBRD
IDA                                                      78.5               98.5             177.0
Other (specify)Dhaka City Corporation                     13.1                               13.1
Total       135.7              98.5             234.2
Borrower:     Government of Bangladesh
Guarantor:    NA
Responsible agency(ies):  Ministry of Communications and Dhaka City Corporation
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1999     2000       2001       2002   2003    20    20
Annual 8.0        30.5       47.5       55.0   36.0
Cumulative 8.0        38.5       88.0       141.0   177.0
Project implementation period: 1999-2004  Expected effectiveness date: 03/1999    Expected closinig date: 06/2004
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex l).
The project's overall objectives are: (a) To improve urban transport infrastructure and services in
the Dhaka Metropolitan Area (DMA) in an economically and environmentally sustainable manner, and
(b) To strengthen institutional and policy framework and address long-term transport planning and
coordination issues in the Dhaka Metropolitan Area. The transport problems in DMA are multi-faceted
and massive, and would need a phased program spread over several years. This project would focus on
the first phase, to deal with the most pressing constraints, including building up an institutional
framework and a policy environment that envisages active private sector and community involvemenit.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Ann7ex I):
CAS document number: 17453-BD      Date of latest CAS discussion: March 31, 1998
The CAS states that the Bank Group's mission in Bangladesh is reducing poverty by promoting
rapid job-creating economic growth and interventions that directly assist the poor. The strategic priorities
outlined in the CAS include, among others: (a) institutional development, (b) promoting a competitive
private sector as the engine of growth, and (c) promoting better public sector management and improved
public services for private sector and civil society. In outlining the implementation of the assistance
strategy, the CAS states that the Bank Group will assist in providing better transport services and tackling
urbanization problems, and identifies Dhaka Urban Transport Project (DUTP) as one of the key vehicles
to achieve this.
The project supports these main priorities outlined in the CAS. It will help remove transport
bottlenecks, and improve transport services, in the largest and the most important urban center in
Bangladesh, which has also a large percentage or urban poor; Dhaka has a population of 9 million and
contributes about 13% of the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The project will also help to
develop institutional capacity for better coordination and improve public sector management of DMA's
transport system, expand private sector role and participation and assist the poor in better meeting their
mobility needs . An important focus of the project is building institutional capacities in a phased manner.
The proposed Greater Dhaka Transport Planning Coordination Board (GDTPCB), with members from
key private and public sector agencies, is expected to serve as a model for metropolitan transportation
planning and coordination in Bangladesh. The project will also strengthen the institutional capacities of
many local agencies which have important roles in the metropolitan transport planning and management.
The project envisages good bus services provided by private sector to be the main thrust of public
transportation in Dhaka city. Various steps will be taken under the project to facilitate greater private
sector participation in the provision of efficient bus services, including improving infrastructure and
traffic management which will reduce congestion, traffic delays and vehicle operating costs, providing
adequate bus terminals and depots, deregulating fares, and facilitating credit from various sources for
private bus entrepreneurs; some of these measures have already been initiated. The urban poor will
particularly benefit from improved bus services, better pedestrian facilities and support for non-motorized
transport (NMT) which employs a large number of poor operators.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Background: Urban population growth in Bangladesh in recent decades, has been
phenomenal; total urban population which was 2.6 million (or 4.8% of the total population) in 1961, rose
to 22.5 million (around 20% of the total population) by 1991. The urban population growth per decade
has averaged 6.7% during this period. This has far outstripped the capacity of urban infrastructure,
leading to low level of efficiency and massive shortages. The future expansion of the country's economy



Page 3
significantly depends on the competitiveness of urban areas which are also the country's main industrial
and commerciall centers; therefore, enhancing the efficiency and reach of urban infrastructure becomes a
high priority. Main issues in the urban sector of Bangladesh are: (a) rapid increase in urban population;
(b) extremely poor conditions of infrastructure and services, with huge backlogs and low-level of O&M
of existing services; (c) weak institutions at the local government level, with inadequate capacity for
planning and implementing projects, for managing municipal services and finances, and for maintaining
infrastructure; (d) poor revenue base and inadequate cost recovery; (e) overlapping responsibilities and
poor coordination among different government ministries and municipal agencies; and (f) lack of
stakeholder participation and adequate consultative processes.
The Government has realized the magnitude and importance of the problem and is now making
earnest efforts to tackle these issues, with the support of IDA, ADB, UNDP and bilateral funding
agencies to improve the efficiency of the urban sector, through strategic and technical studies, capacity
building initiatives, and development projects (ref. detailed discussion under para. on Government
Strategy below).
Dhaka's critical role: The urban hierarchy of Bangladesh is strongly dominated by metropolitan
Dhaka, whichl is the country's largest and most industrialized city, and also its administrative, commercial
and cultural capital. The population of Dhaka is about 9 million presently and is projected to be about 16
million by 2015, making it the seventh largest megacity in the world. Between 1960 and 1990 the
average annual growth rate of population in DMA was eight percent. With a share of about 7% of the
total population, Dhaka contributes about 13% of the national GDP. In spite of its relative importance in
the national economy, acute deficiencies exist in the provision of infrastructure facilities, resulting in a
widening gap between supply and demand for services.
Transport Environment in Dhaka: The transport environment in Dhaka is characterized by
traffic congestion and delays, inadequate traffic management, conflict of jurisdictions and poor
coordination among agencies, and increasing air pollution problems. Dhaka is perhaps the only city of its
size without a well-organized, scheduled bus system or any other mass transport system. Women and
urban poor are particularly disadvantaged in accessing the existing bus facilities due to extreme
overcrowding. The city's traffic problems have recently reached crisis proportions; traffic delays have
tripled in the last three years and automobile-related air pollution has become a major health problem.
These shortcornings seriously compromise the ability of the transport system in Dhaka to sustain
economic growth and reasonable quality of life. Deteriorating traffic and environmental conditions have
prompted a popular public "Save Dhaka" campaign to find urgent solutions. Moreover, the expected
addition of another seven million people over the next 16-17 years will make conditions almost
unbearable in the future, unless urgent measures are taken to remedy the situation.
In many respects, the distribution of modal choices in Dhaka is unique among cities of
comparable size in the Asia region. Walking to work and non-motorized transport (NMT) trips are major
components of the travel pattern in Dhaka. In terms of number of trips, almost 60% of the 8.5 million
weekday person trips are walk trips; 19.2% use the manually-pedaled cycle-rickshaw; 1.4% use auto-
rickshaw (motorized three-wheelers); 9.2% travel by bus; 3.1% by private car; and the remaining, about
7.7%, by various other modes. In terms of passenger kms. traveled, the share of buses is 30.6%, and those
of cycle-rickshaw and walking are 21.7% and 17.7%, respectively. The high dependence on walking and
cycle rickshaw, both slow and typically best suited for short trips on secondary roads, and a low
dependence on buses (the main form of public transport), in a city of nine million people with an urban
area of about 2,000 square kms., is a symptom of inefficient and ineffective transport systems and
operations. Dominance of slow human pedaled cycle rickshaws, which are non-polluting and employ a
large number of poor, but adds to traffic congestion, particularly on main arterial roads, constitutes a



Page 4
major social issue related to traffic management in Dhaka.
The principal problems/issues associated with transport services in Dhaka are: (a) weak
institutional arrangements for planning, coordination and management of transport services, leading to
overlapping jurisdictions, and inadequate inter-agency planning and coordination; (b) absence of a good
scheduled bus system (or other mass transport), most buses being old, overcrowded and generally
inaccessible to women passengers; (c) poor road conditions and inadequate intersection management
facilities for smooth traffic flow; (d) serious traffic congestion, which reduces speed and restricts the
number of daily bus trips possible, thus increasing vehicle operating costs; (e) tariff regulations and other
disincentives that discouraged large investments by the private sector (Currently most of the bus
operations in the city - about 95% of around 1600 buses - are managed by the private sector, with
regulated low tariff and traffic delays leading to substandard services; the tariff restrictions have been
recently relaxed as condition of DUTP preparation, and the private sector has begun to bring in better
buses at higher tariffs); (f) inadequate traffic management and inefficient road use because of poor
enforcemenit of traffic regulations, conflict between slow and fast moving modes, encroachments by
street vendors, and lack of coordination among different utility agencies and the road maintenance
agency; (g) high accident rates arising from inadequate traffic enforcement, poor road conditions and
driving standards; (h) poor accessibility for women to the existing bus services due to overcrowding, and
inadequate sidewalks and pedestrian facilities which constrain poor women garment workers who walk to
work in large numbers; and (i) automobile-related air pollution which has become a major hazard for the
entire city population, due to the recent steep increase in the highly polluting two-stroke engines (three-
wheeler auto-rickshaws), increased traffic congestion, use of old and badly maintained buses, and poor
quality fuel.
Government Strategy: To deal with this deteriorating urban situation, the Government has
recently conducted many studies and initiated actions to evolve a rational strategy in urban planning and
housing, inunicipal management and services, urban transport, and urban institutions, and address the key
issues involved. Some of these studies, such as the Urban and Shelter Sector Review, the Dhaka and
Chittagong City Master Plans, the Dhaka Integrated Transport study, Municipal Services Feasibility
Study, and the Dhaka Water Supply Project studies have been partly funded by the UNDP, ADB, the
World Bank and other key bilateral. There have been active discussions and dialogue within the
Government and the country, and with the World Bank and other institutions in preparing a cogent
strategy for tackling the urban issues. For example, the National Program Document for Urban Sector
(1994) prepared with UNDP assistance, provides the analytical underpinning to urban sector initiatives
for the next decade; Government also recently agreed with IDA, on a strategy for managing municipal
finance issues, based on the municipal finance sector study (1997) completed with IDA assistance. The
Government has also prepared Master Plans for Dhaka and Chittagong with UNDP assistance. More.
specialized work in specific areas are currently under way, in parallel with initiation of projects for
infrastructure improvements and institutional strengthening.  There has been genuine interest and
commitment by the Government in addressing urban issues.  The Government's urban strategy
emphasizes decentralization of authority to the local agencies, strengthening their capacity, and upgrading
infrastructure with a major role for private sector in the delivery of municipal services.
In the area of urban transport, the Government's strategy is to initially focus on the problems of
Dhaka which is the largest and also one of the fastest-growing cities, and in the process, create a
successful model in urban transport that can be replicated in other urban centers of the country. The
Dhaka Integrated Transport Study (DITS, 1994) and subsequent discussions with Government have
highlighted the following elements that will constitute the urban transport strategy for Dhaka (which will
also set the tone for the other cities in the country): (a) institutional reforms to ensure efficient urban
transport planning and management, and coordination among different agencies, as well as with regional
land use planning process; (b) strengthening of the Dhaka City Corporation and other municipalities in



Page 5
the Dhaka area, and other relevant agencies, to better manage transport services and projects; (c)
improving maintenance systems and cost-recovery; (d) removing physical constraints in the transport
system and reduce transport costs; (e) improving traffic management and safety; (f) enhanced role for the
private sector in urban transport services, under competitive market conditions; (g) key role for the
Government in undertaking public investments in critical common-user infrastructure facilities such as
roads, traffic management improvements etc. and in providing an efficient regulatory system for safe,
dependable services by the private sector, under adequate emission and environmental standards; (h)
developing a multi-modal framework involving all relevant modes; (i) developing an efficient bus-
transport system by private sector as the main mass-transport mode for the near future, while studying
other mass transport options for the long-term; () allowing multi-tier bus tariff systems, with free fare-
setting for higher quality services (such as sitting-only', 'limited-stops' etc.) and with fare regulation for
ordinary services to ensure affordability for the poor; (k) ensuring a continued significant role for cycle-
rickshaws (which is pollution-free and which provides employment support for about 1.0 million urban
poor), as feeder services to bus transport, and as local services on non-main roads, by providing special
facilities, while reducing their use on main arteries where they cause traffic congestion; (I) enhancing
pedestrian facilities by providing, for example, clear sidewalks, and pedestrian bridges for safe crossings;
(m) addressing the transport needs of specific vulnerable groups such as women, garment workers, and
the poor; and (n) addressing air pollution related issues by restricting the growth of two-stroke engines,
setting and monlitoring emission standards.
IDA enclorses GOB's overall urban strategy and supports it mainly in two ways: (a) working with
GOB in tackling major urban transport problems through the proposed DUTP, and (b) concurrently
supporting GOB's efforts in strengthening municipal institutions, policy framework, decentralization and
general infrastructure improvements, through ongoing and new projects. The Dhaka Water Supply
Project funded by IDA in 1996, is ongoing, and a new Municipal Services Project, focused on an number
of small and medium size municipal towns, which also supports strengthening municipal institutions
generally, has been recently appraised and negotiated, and is expected to be presented to IDA Board
shortly.
While some urban projects for housing, water supply and other municipal services have been
funded recently by various international agencies in selected cities and towns, no internationally funded
investment project has been undertaken so far for urban transport, and the proposed DUTP would be the
first intervention in this sub-sector in Bangladesh. The strategic orientation identified by GOB for the
urban transport sub-sector is fully reflected in the proposed DUTP.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address the main sector issues relating to: building institutional capacity and
improving policy environment, strengthening planning and coordination capacity, infrastructure services
provision, betteir maintenance, improved traffic management, private sector participation, environmental
sustainability and addressing transport needs of the poor. The focus of this project is on the most urgent,
institutional and infrastructure issues requiring immediate attention, and developing a phased approach to
address the complex and multifaceted problems facing Dhaka, transport system. It will also provide a
model for dealing with transport issues in other urban centers in the country.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):



Page 6
PROJECT COMPONENTS AND COST SUMMARY
Cost incl.   % of      IDA      % of IDA
Component                 Category    Contingencies   Total  financing  financing
(US$M)               (US$M)
Traffic System Improvements*           Physical        50.1       21.4      37.6       21.2
Road Improvements                      Physical        30.7       13.1      23.1       13.1
Bus Route Improvements                 Physical        2.7         1.1       2.0        1.1
Rehabilitation of Existing Bus         Physical        17.2        7.3      12.8        7.2
Terminals and Adjacent Roads
Pedestrian Facilities Improvement      Physical        5.4         2.3       4.0        2.3
NMT Network Improvement                Physical        5.4         2.3       4.0        2.3
Grade Separated Interchange Facilities  Physical       46.8       20.0      35.1        19.8
Flood Damage Rehabilitation - Roads    Physical        20.0        8.6      15.0        8.5
& Drainage
Equipment and Vehicles                Equipment        10.9        4.6      8.1         4.8
Technical Assistance & Implementation   Institution    34.4       14.7      34.0        19.2
Support, and preparation of follow-up  Building &
proj ects                              Project
Management   ___
Resettlement Costs                     Physical        1.4         0.6       1.3        0.7
Land Acquisition and Compensation                      9.3         4.0       0.0        0.0
Total                           234.2       100.0    177.0       100.0
Note: Figures may not agree due to rounding
*Excludes related technical assistance
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project will address the existing gaps and weaknesses in the policy and institutional
framework related to metropolitan transport planning and management in DMA, as described below. The
proposed arrangements are also expected to set a model for the rest of the country.
Setting up of GDTPCB: As part of the project preparation efforts, GOB has set up a Greater
Dhaka Transport Planning and Coordination Board (GDTPCB), an inter-agency unit for overall transport
planning and coordination for DMA, to fill a major existing gap in the institutional framework for
coordination of urban transport. GDTPCB will be chaired by the Mayor of Dhaka and represented by
other smaller municipalities in the metropolitan area, the private sector and all other important agencies
that have a stake in transport planning and coordination in of transport related decisions in DMA. Since
transport planning, policy and regulations are functionally the responsibility of the Ministry of
Communications (MOC), GDTPCB will be administratively under the Ministry of Communications; the
Executive Director (ED) of GDTPCB will report to the Secretary of MOC. GDTPCB will play a lead role
in carrying out transport planning for the metropolitan area, and also assist in transport policy formulation
and the coordination of major operational, and investment decisions regarding urban transport in DMA,
with other agencies and stakeholders. In addition, it will play a major role in coordinating DUTP
implementation.
The structure of GDTPCB, with important roles for the Mayor of Dhaka City Corporation
(DCC), MOC and other key players, is such as to ensure better coordination among key agencies
involved in transport operations in DMA. This organizational structure has been evolved in the light of
studies by local and international experts after examining the mandates and capacities of existing
institutions, current coordination problems, and intensive local-level consultations, and reflect consensus
among experienced local intellectuals and practitioners. Establishment of GDTPCB is a major



Page 7
institutional reform undertaken by GOB, and its setting-up and appointment of key staff have been
completed as part of DUTP preparation. The project will provide technical assistance, training and
equipment to make this agency fully functional.
Other institutional reforms: The project will also devote attention to strengthening other
important institutions, namely DCC, Rajadhani Unnayan Karthpakhya (RAJUK), Bangladesh Road
Transport Authority (BRTA), Department of Environment (DOE) and Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP)
so as to improve their capacity & efficiency in dealing with urban transport and pollution related issues,
Addressing O&M and Cost Recovery Issues: Project also seeks to address the existing poor
levels of operation and maintenance (O&M) in urban transport infrastructure in DMA, and to promote
better cost recovery. This will be through strengthening DCC's maintenance department and the
establishment of a Road and Traffic Maintenance Fund (RTMF) for Dhaka Metropolitan Area, which will
be financed frorn road user charges collected by GOB and DCC. RTMF, managed under stakeholder
oversight, will help ensure GOB/DCC in allocating adequate funds for efficient maintenance of road
infrastructure, in order to ensure sustainability. GOB and DCC have agreed on the structure and
operational modalities of RTMF, and also on the annual maintenance funding levels (this is reflected in
the Action Plan agreed during Negotiations).
Currently, the estimated maintenance requirement for road and traffic infrastructure is aboutTk.
550 million annually; this is expected to go up to Tk. 660 million after the completion of the project.
Against this, the current level of expenditure on O&M is only aboutTk. 160 million. GOB collects most
of the road user charges (vehicle fees, fuel taxes) from the Greater Dhaka area to the tune of around Tk.
740 million annually; some beneficiary payments are also indirectly collected by DCC through house
taxes. Since GOB collects the main user fees, it is proposed that GOB will provide 60% of the Dhaka
area's annual road maintenance requirement (i.e. Tk. 330 million out of total Tk. 550 million needed for
1998). This grant money amount will be transferred by GOB to a separate/designated account for RTMF,
mainitainied by DCC. The remaining 40% will be provided by DCC from its own resources, into this
account. RTMIF would be used only for periodic and routine maintenance of DMA's road and other
traffic related infrastructure. The initial allocation into the fund will be phased over two years (1998-
2000), and will increase as maintenance needs increase; GOB/DCC and IDA have agreed on estimated
level of contributions during project period. DCC's share will increase in the last year of the project. The
RTMF will function under the monitoring and supervision of a Committee, chaired by the Mayor and
with members representing various stakeholder groups, namely, DCC Ward Commissioners -
representing 10 DCC zones (rotational basis), bus & truck owners association, premium bus operators
association, Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce & Industry (MCCI), GDTPCB, and the civil society (an
appropriate representative will be nominated by the Association of Development Agencies in
Bangladesh). It was also agreed with GOB that based on the findings of the country-wide study on Road-
User Charges, being conducted by GOB's consultants under the Second Rural Roads Maintenance
Project, vehicle registration charges and other user charges in the country will be suitably revised.
DCC will also prepare and implement a plan in consultation with IDA, for improving
management and ensuring adequate cost recovery from the inter-district bus terminals improved under
the project. This plan will be agreed with IDA by December 1999, before the start of the civil works to
improve the terminals. Since the present fee collection method is not producing adequate returns,
possibly due to problems in the current auctioning system for bus terminal operations, other options, such
as long-term leasing of the operations and maintenance of the terminals to the private sector (through
transparent bidding), will also be considered for cost recovery.
Other policy reforms agreed relate to measures for ensuring competitive market entry and
operations for bus and other transport operators, in particular allowing market-based tariff-setting by bus



Page 8
operators in DMA who bring better quality "premium" services (sitting only, limited-stop etc.); this tariff
reform, recently announced as part of DUTP preparation, has already attracted new, improved bus
services, and has been greatly welcomed by the public and media. A larger scale entry of private bus
operating companies is expected when the project is underway and begins to reduce traffic congestion
and vehicle operating costs. GOB has agreed to provide further incentives for entry of more private bus
services. Tariff control is continuing (though not strictly enforced) only for "ordinary services" which are
mostly used by the poor; the quality of these ordinary bus services will also improve with the removal of
traffic bottlenecks and delays through DUTP. Participatory processes for improving bus services for the
poor and women have also been agreed. A further review of the regulatory systems and functioning of
Dhaka's transport services will be undertaken by GOB by the project's mid-term review in consultation
with IDA with a view to consider and institute any necessary changes. Another major area of reforn is in
restricting the use of highly polluting vehicles and encouraging less polluting vehicle types; the Action
Plan agreed with GOB includes many measures for this purpose.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main expected benefits and the major beneficiaries are:
(i) Enhanced institutional capacities and better policy    (i) GOB, the relevant institutions involved and the
environment in the urban transport sector in DMA.  general population of Dhaka Metropolitan Area, and
also the country at large, since DMA is a main economic
center in the country.
(ii) Reduced congestion/travel time and vehicle    (ii) Commuters, vehicle operators of Dhaka
operating costs.                                   Metropolitan Area, and other private sector enterprises.
(iii) Improved travel environment, more efficient road    (iii) Bus operators, who are mostly in the private sector;
use, enhanced traffic management and improved bus  users of public transport, including women and low-
system.                                            income groups.
(iv) Network improvements for cycle rickshaws (NMT   (iv) Cycle rickshaw operators, who are very poor; and
network), to improve their role as feeder services on  many categories of commuters, especially women and
secondary roads.                                   children.
(v) Improved side walks, pedestrian facilities and  (v) All pedestrians, particularly women garment
management.                                        workers and low-income groups, who walk to work.
(vi) Better road maintenance standards.            (vi) All road users, particularly users of motorized
vehicles and non-motorized vehicles.
(vii) Enhanced road safety.                        (vii) All road users.
(viii) Reduced vehicular pollution and improved    (viii) All residents of Dhaka Metropolitan Area.
environmental conditions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The total implementation period is expected to be five years.
Executing Agencies (ref. Annex 2 for a detailed description of institutional arrangements):
The project will be designed and implemented with active participation of all key stakeholders,
including, private sector, various citizen groups and representatives of the civil society of Dhaka. The
responsibilities for various aspects of project design, execution and implementation will be shared by
different Government agencies with adequate coordination among them. In view of the multiplicity of



Page 9
organizations involved in the Dhaka transport sector, it was agreed early that a preparation and
coordination body, to manage project preparation and implementation, would be set up under the
Ministry of Communications (MOC) for overall project preparation, coordination and management.
Project Preparation Unit (PPU) with a full-time Director, and representatives from Roads and Highways
Department (RHD), Metropolitan and Regional Planning Authority (RAJUK), Dhaka City Corporation
(DCC), Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA) and Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP), has been
coordinating the various aspects of project preparation, and this coordination effort has worked well.
This PPU has since been converted to a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The overall project oversight
and coordination will be done by the PCU and its new parent agency, GDTPCB, which reports to MOC.
In addition, considering the strategic importance of the project, a high-level Secretaries Committee of
concerned Minist:ries has been set up to expedite various critical decisions related to the project; this
committee which was very effective in resolving issues during project preparation will continue during
implementation.
The Ministry of Communications through PCU/GDTPCB, will bear the main responsibility to
oversee project coordination and overall project management. DCC, RHD, BRTA, DMP, RAJUK and
DOE will look after components in their own jurisdiction through specially instituted Project
Implementation Units (PlUs) or project coordinators within their organizations. The above project units
will have key trained staff partly funded through DUTP, to ensure proper accounting and financial
management of their respective components. Procurement of civil works and equipment allocated to
DCC and RHD will be done by them in coordination with PCU/GDTPCB; all other procurement,
including technical assistance, will be managed by PCU.
DCC will be a major important implementing agency, as about 60% of the project investments
will be oni facilities and activities under its jurisdiction. DCC and RHD, with the two largest number of
components, will have Project Implementation Units (PIUs), each under a Project Director to implement
their respective components. In order to avoid delays, it has been agreed with DCC that the PIU/DCC
will work as an independent unit in DCC, reporting directly to the Mayor or the Chief Executive of DCC.
Project Coordination:
The PCU/GDTPCB will liaise witlh the individual PIUs and various other stakeholders to ensure
coordination and speedy implementation. A project-level operations committee has been established
under Executive Director (ED) of GDTPCB, with all PDs and Project Coordinators as members, to meet
regularly and assess project progress on a periodic basis. To facilitate public consultation in project
preparation and implementation, the Government has set up a Public Consultation Committee (PCC),
under the chairmanship of DCC Mayor and with representatives from key project agencies, NGOs and
the private sector. This participatory process has worked well during project preparation. In addition,
zonal-level consultative committees will be established, to ensure adequate public involvement and
feedback at a more localized level; NGOs will facilitate the working of these committees.
The Design Supervision and Monitoring (DSM) consultants to be funded under the project (and
recently appointed) will carry out important functions in project supervision, coordination and monitoring
of the project. DSM consultants will report to GDTPCB, and will function as the "Engineer's
Representatives". Other experts in traffic management, road safety, financial management and other
aspects, provided under the project, will provide training in their respective areas, and also assist in
project implementation.
It is important to ensure that minimum disruptions/dislocations occur due to the civil works
during implementation. The project will take every care to minimize dislocations due to civil works
during implementation. It would commence with relatively smaller civil works components along with



Page 10
institutional, training and TA components, to provide maximum early impact on traffic management
improvements; construction of the flyovers (which are the largest civil works component) have been
scheduled to start only towards the third year of the project. In addition, for intersection improvements,
several alternatives have been prepared and the one that will cause minimum disruptions have been
chosen. Appropriate traffic diversion plans have already been drawn up by the preparation consultants,
and these will be further revised by DSM consultants before the commencement of major civil works.
GOB has agreed to provide at least 200 additional traffic policemen to DMP; DMP staff will also receive
adequate training and the services of an Enforcement Specialist during the implementation phase. All
these are expected to ensure that disruptions during the construction period would be minimal.
Project Oversight (policy guidance, etc.):
PCU/GDTPCB will be the agency responsible for overall project oversight. It will coordinate
closely with other agencies involved in project implementation. GDTPCB will also bear the responsibility
for policy guidance and advice on strategic issues to the various agencies and stakeholders involved in
project design and execution. (see also above para on Project Coordination for details)
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
PCU/GDTPCB and PIU of DCC and RHD will have accounting units with qualified accountants.
These units will maintain their respective accounts. PCU will gather required information from other
implementing agencies/organizations to prepare consolidated financial statements for the project and will
also maintain consolidated accounts for all project expenditures. A computerized financial reporting
system will be established in the PCU/GDTPCB and the PIUs of DCC and RHD before March 31, 2000.
Until then project accounts will be maintained employing traditional book-keeping methods. A
standardized financial reporting format acceptable to IDA will be included in the Government's Project
Implementation Plan (PIP).
For statutory purposes, the Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG), through the Directorate of
Audit - Foreign Aided Projects, carries out audits of foreign aided projects. In addition, GOB has agreed
to appoint accredited private auditors acceptable to IDA for timely audit of all project accounts, project
financial statements and SOE's relating to all project units (PCU and PIUs). The audit report will be
submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
In addition, two operational audits will be carried out by a private audit firm acceptable to IDA,
one prior to mid-term review and the other, an year prior to credit closing. The terms of reference of
these operational audits would cover: (a) assessment of adequacy of financial and operational controls;
(b) that the project maintenance cost will be sufficiently met in future by recurring revenue earnings;(c)
identification of weaknesses in the financial management system and give recommendation for
improvements etc. The cost for conducting such audits will be included in the project costs and be
eligible for financing under the project.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The project has set forth benchmarks and performance indicators (Annex 1) to evaluate progress
on individual components. These have been agreed during negotiations. These will be periodically
reviewed to see their effectiveness against performance standards and implementation schedules. Besides,
the PCU/GDTPCB will submit quarterly progress reports to IDA. A mid-term review will be conducted
jointly by IDA and GOB-GDTPCB, after two-and-a-half years to assess progress and improve on project
implementation performance. Implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan (see section E. 5) will be
monitored internally by the project authorities on an ongoing basis, and supervised regularly by IDA.
Independent external evaluations of impacts will also be undertaken, funded through the project.



Page 11
D: Project Ratiornale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.
Capital Intensive versus Management Intensive: The option of infrastructure investments in
capital intensive projects, such as light rail and new roads, was examined. However, in the light of
previous UNDP-funded studies, it has been agreed with the Government that the project will adopt a
phased approach to address the transport problems in DMA, with greater thrust on improving traffic
planning, management and coordination arrangements, enhancing institutional capacities, and with
immediate focus on improved scheduled bus services provided by the private sector. Examining other
options will be part of the long-term transport plan for DMA, and this will be prepared under DUTP.
Creating GDTPCB instead of retro-fitting existing institutions with planning and coordination
functions:  The project examined the option of equipping and strengthenilng some of the existing
institutions with the task of planning and coordinating transport planning and investments for the Greater
Dhaka region.  H[owever, the existing institutions lacked the necessary coverage, mandates and
institutional capacities to deal with this issue effectively. None of the existing institutions is in a position
to ensure effective coordination of transport-related activities and investments for the entire Greater
Dhaka region. Therefore, in the light of detailed studies, and based on the recommendations of
institutional experts, local consultants and GOB, it was decided that a separate organization, GDTPCB,
dedicated to planning and coordinating transport-related investments was a better alternative to deal with
the existing and future transport issues in this area.
Selection of intersection improvements: The intersections selected for improvement, a key
project component, were selected in the light of detailed studies showing with and without project
alternatives and with different technical alternatives.  This approach also applies to other main
components.
NMT versus Motorized Vehicles: The option of banning slow moving cycle-rickshaw traffic
from city roads was examined. In view of the considerable environmental, employment, and social
benefits of cycle-rickshaws, it was agreed to develop approaches to better manage cycle-rickshaw traffic
on the streets of Dhaka. Much as these vehicles create traffic conflict and congestion, they are also a
means of livelihood for about a million people poor presently (including dependent families). It was felt
that the development of other less expensive and faster mass transit modes like good bus services was a
better market based alternative for limiting the proliferation of rickshaws than an outright ban. The cycle-
rickshaws will be given a positive role as feeder services to bus systems and as localized transport on
non-arterial roads that form about 90% of the DMA's road network. This will be through identification
of NMT routes, construction of small missing road links to form an NMT network, better parking
facilities for NMT on secondary roads, and through provision of some underpasses to facilitate easy
NMT movement and reduce conflict between various slow and fast modes.
Dedicated busways versus other options: The feasibility of providing dedicated busways along
key bus routes was examined. However, considering the road space available, and the present volume of
bus traffic and other modes, it was decided that dedicated bus routes will not be immediately feasible.
Instead the buses will be provided with priority lanes at critical locations in the network, such as approach
to intersections, ramps of interchanges and etc.
Construction of grade-separated interchanges: The project examined the option of building
flyovers at five key intersections to ease traffic flow and bring network-wide improvements. However,
after considering the magnitude of investments required, resettlement and other social impacts and
potential of introducing effective traffic management measures, it was decided that the project will
include only'two interchanges, at Mohakhali and Jatrabari.



Page 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
None so far in urban transport.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project would be the first Bank financed urban transport project in Bangladesh.
However, the Bank has been involved in a number of projects involving roads improvements and
infrastructure services upgrading in Bangladesh. Recently, IDA's Urban Development Project 1, with
components for environmental improvements for Dhaka and Chittagong cities, was completed in June
1998. While the project has been satisfactory overall, the performance of DCC in procurement and land
acquisition was assessed as weak. In general, many of the projects have suffered from: (a) poor quality at
entry; (b) weak institutional capacity in project management and monitoring;(c) procurement delays; and
(d) lack of sustainability in maintaining the capital investments made under the project. More recent and
ongoing projects are generally free from these short-comings. The key lessons learnt and incorporated in
the project, are:
Policy and Institutional Design: (a) required policy and institutional changes have been obtained
upfront and strengthening institutional capacity and effective coordination have been given considerable
focus from the beginning of project preparation; (b) borrower ownership is crucial, as also participation
of key project beneficiaries and stakeholders. This has been ensured through borrower undertakings to
specific actions at various stages of project preparation and implementation (whose compliance has been
confirmed), and extensive general and focused public consultation and participation; (c) private sector
provision of transport (bus) services shall be complemented by provision of adequate infrastructure and
amenities, thus defining the roles of the private and public sectors and encouraging private-public
partnership in the provision and maintenance of transport services; and (d) project management
arrangements have been made strong to ensure accountability, transparency and avoid delays, and key
actions (such as setting up GDTPCB, PCU/PIUs and DSM consultants) have been completed before IDA
Board consideration of DUTP credit.
Economic and Financial: (a) sustainability is ensured through appropriate cost recovery
facilitated through the formation of a Road and Traffic Maintenance Fund (RTMF), by ensuring funding
arrangements for regular maintenance and by strengthening the maintenance department of DCC; and(b)
careful monitoring and evaluation criteria have been incorporated in project design, to ensure
sustainability of investments; and
Technical design: (a) careful economic and technical analysis of various project sub-components
have been effected to ensure their feasibility and quality at entry; (b) project design has been kept simple
and flexible; (c) when trying something new, pilots were tried first, such as in the case of introduction of
premium bus services.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower has been fully committed to the project from its inception; it had made persistent
requests to IDA for including DUTP under the CAS, and has actively participated in defining project
objectives and in preparing a framework for implementation. A structured consultation process has
incorporated views of different stakeholders into the project design, and contributed to broad support for
the project.  The specific actions taken by the borrower during project preparation include: (a)
deregulation of fares on premium bus services and other incentives, encouraging private sector greater
participation in the provision of improved bus services; (b) introduction of special bus routes on a pilot
basis which have become a great success with the public subsequently. The Government has also



Page 13
committed to extending special bus lanes to other major corridors in the city; (c) setting up a Public
Consultative Group (PCG) with the Mayor of Dhaka city as the Chairman, and members from the private
sector, media, beneficiary groups and other stakeholders, to discuss project-design and issues; which
assisted project design considerably; (d) major advance implementation actions completed such as setting
up the new coordination body GDTPCB, appointing project supervision and monitoring consultants and
setting up project implementation units, all before IDA Board date; and (e) overall enthusiastic support
from various levels of Government, including Ministers, higher level officials of main agencies and the
Mayor and officials of the Dhaka City Corporation, as also from public, transport operators, women's
groups, NGOs and media, for the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The role of IDA in addressing urban transport problems in Dhaka is three fold. First, drawing
upon its international and regional experience, IDA is in a strong position to support the Government in
formulating the strategies necessary to ensure that an adequate, efficient, and sustainable level of
transport services is available to the city residents. IDA has considerable experience in undertaking
urban transport projects in several countries, in the process, bringing about infrastructure investments and
institutional and policy changes and adequate sustainability. The fact that Government made persistent
requests for IDA assistance and leadership for sorting out Dhaka's complex transport problems is
recognition of IDA's preeminent role in this sector. Second, IDA can assist the Government in
implementing these strategies through both the financing of technical advice, training and investments
and direct analytical support to the Government during preparation and implementation. Assistance from
IDA during preparation has contributed to a more holistic and integrated approach, whiclh includes
addressing social and environmental issues along with the technical dimensions of the project. Third, this
pioneering project will help prepare future strategy for dealing with Dhaka's transport problems and help
attract co-financing.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 124 million; ERR=23% [x] Cost Effectiveness Analysis: [  Other
Economic analysis is conducted at two levels: for the overall project, and for major individual
components. At the first level, total project benefits are evaluated against the costs of all physical
components, equipment, and technical assistance (excludipg follow-up studies and including physical
contingencies), which constitute 87% of total project cost. The result from this analysis is treated as the
base case in the sensitivity tests. The major direct economic benefits of the project are expected to be
reductions of vehicle operating costs (VOC) and travel time through network-wide mitigation of traffic
congestion and delays, rehabilitation of deteriorated roads, and improved bus terminals. There will also
be additional benefits from improved traffic safety and reduced auto pollution. However, due to shortage
of reliable data, the expected traffic safety and environmental benefits have not been quantified. The
road network traffic benefits, which are the major part of the total project benefits, are evaluated using a
network-based travel demand model. The model is calibrated with data from a city-wide travel origin and
destination survey and traffic counts at various locations; it is capable of simulating network traffic
performance under scenarios with and without the project. The ERR for all physical components
contributing to the network-wide traffic improvement (including equipment and related technical
assistance) is estimated 23%. Sensitivity tests are performed by assuming alternative scenarios with
alternative traffic growth rate, cost overruns, benefit reductions, or a combination of all, against the base
case described above. The test results suggest that the project economic viability is robust. The analysis
also tests the impact of traffic enforcement on the project performance. The results suggest that the
effective traffic enforcement is very important in the realization of expected benefits.



Page 14
At the second level, detailed economic analysis has been made for each of the following major
physical components: intersection improvements, flyovers, inter-district bus terminal rehabilitation, road
rehabilitation, and NMT underpasses. These analyses are conducted for assessing the economic viability
of the above individual components even treated as stand-alone projects. These components altogether
represent 63% of the total project baseline cost. Their estimated ERRs range from 16% to 38%, with a
weighted ERR of 27%.
2. Financial Assessment
Project costs: See section C and Annex 3 and for detailed project costs.
Financing plan: Cover sheet and Annex 3 show details of the financing plan. The proposed credit
of US$ 177.0 million would finance about 75% of the total costs (US$ 234.2, incliding taxes and duties).
The remaining portion would be financed by GOB (US$ 44.1 m) and DCC (US$ 13.1 In).
Fiscal impact: About 60% of the project investments would be for items directly unider the
jurisdiction of DCC. Clear understanding on the share of DCC and GOB in providing counterpart funds
have been agreed in advance (see Annex 3). DCC generally depends on grant funds from GOB for major
transport related development and rehabilitation investments, such as covered by DUTP. since (i)
Dhaka's transport constraints are perceived as a national problem, (ii) GOB receives most of the user fees
from transport users in the form of fuel taxes and vehicle fees, and (iii) DCC's financial position is
presently weak. GOB proposes to transfer project funds, both IDA and GOB share, to DCC on a grant
basis. DCC will contribute 10% of project costs on all items excluding flyovers, resettlemenit and
technical assistance. An analysis of DCC's financial profile and projections indicate that DCC will be
able to provide adequate counterpart project funds, as agreed, and 40% of the expected maintenianice costs
(increasing later), as reflected in the project agreements.
For regular maintenance of its facilities, DCC generally provides funding from its own sources,
but this funding is inadequate. Therefore, special measures have been designed to ensure that the traffic
and road facilities under DCC, including those created under the project are satisfactorily maintained
through adequate availability of funds, beneficiary/private sector oversight and an efficient maintenance
department. The decision to establish a Road and Traffic Maintenance Fund (RTMF) that will be
managed by DCC, with involvement of user representatives and private sector transport operators, is a
step in this direction (also ref. section C. 2 - Addressing O&M and Cost Recovery Issues).
3. Technical:
Two key agencies involved in implementation of the projects, particularly civil work
components, are the DCC and RHD. DCC's technical capacities are presently weak in areas like
transportation planning or road and traffic engineering; these aspects will be strengthened through the
project. DCC has established a Road Maintenance Unit (RMU) and a Traffic Engineering and Road
Safety Unit (TERSU). DCC has already taken steps to recruit additional technical staff who will be
trained in the above mentioned skills through project activities and specialized training courses, provided
under the project. RHD possesses considerable experience in execution of bridge and highway projects;
this experience will be invaluable during the implementation of the flyover components in the project.
The project will emphasize the introduction of international "best practice" to the urban transport
sector in Bangladesh; for e.g., in modem traffic management techniques, such as design of complex
traffic signalization, and introduction of "bus-only" lanes or busways along existing major roads in DMA.
International consultants, assisted by local consultants, have been involved in the project preparation. On
the procurement side, bid packages will be sized, and pre-qualification criteria prescribed to sufficiently
interest well-qualified contractors. Construction supervision will be the responsibility of international



Page 15
consultants, in joint venture with local engineering firms. Additional operational audits will be conducted
during project implementation to ensure adherence to technical quality and standards.
Road maintenance works presently carried out in DMA need introduction of new techniques. The
project will introduce rational road maintenance planning, strengthened work methods and high degree of
quality control. To ensure long-term sustainability of improvements in the technical quality of road
works, the project will include quality management methods, technical audits, modern financial and cost
accounting systems and a mechanism for annual O&M built into the system..
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies
Multiplicity of central government ministries and departments, departments of DCC, and other
agencies involved in planning/implementation of infrastructure projects in DMA, create a difficult
environment in coordinating policies and other decisions related to urban transport and regional land use
in the Dhaka area. To resolve this problem, special coordination arrangements were successfully tried
out during project preparation, and have been agreed for in the implementing phase, as described in
section C-4. Essentially, the project will be implemented by beneficiary agencies through project
implementation units, coordinated through the PCU under GDTPCB.
The newly created GDTPCB fills the long felt need for an apex body to coordinate metropolitan
transport planning and decision making on transport policy and regulations, on a continuing basis. The
functions of GDTPCB will also be coordinated with structure planning and land-use planninig for the
metropolitan region, so that transport planning by GDTPCB goes hand in hand with the regional
development vision. Following a recent UNDP-assisted Dhaka Structure Plan exercise, and a widely
attended workshop on the Structure Plan conducted in December 1995, the Government of Bangladesh
has set up a Capital Area Development Coordination Committee for the metropolitan structure
development, under the Chairmanship of the Minister of Local Government, and with the Mayor of
Dhaka as Joint-Convenor. This is a good start towards setting up a coordination body to resolve
metropolitan development and regional planning issues, which involve Dhaka and other small
Municipalities as well; the Structure Plan Committee is working on a future form of organization for
more sustainable metropolitan coordination in land use planning and other regional planning decisions.
GDTPCB will coordinate its work with this larger and more important regional planning and coordination
body.
b. Project Management
The Ministry of Communications through PCU/GDTPCB, will bear the main responsibility to
oversee project coordination and overall project management. The supervision consultants funded under
the project will be attached to GDTPCB. DCC, RHD, BRTA, DMP, RAJUK and DOE will look after
components in their own jurisdiction through specially instituted Project Implementation Units (PlUs) or
other dedicated units within their organizations.  Efforts will be made to strengthen the project
management capacities of these institutions. The above project units will also oversee procurement, and
will have key trained staff to ensure proper accounting and financial management of their respective
components. A Secretary-level inter-ministerial committee has been established for inter-ministerial
coordination of preparation and implementation, and this arrangement is working well presently.
5. Social:
All key stakeholders were consulted extensively during project preparation. The project had
taken considerable efforts to mainstream social issues and concerns within the overall context of project
preparation from very early stage on in the project preparation. To ensure that the interests and concerns



Page 16
of the most vulnerable groups, eight Public Consultative Committee (PCC) meetings and a series of
workshops & consultative meetings were held with various stakeholder groups, such as the lower-income
groups, pedestrians, users of tariff-regulated ordinary buses, users of tariff-deregulated Premium Bus
Service (PBS), cycle rickshaw owner and operator associations, three-wheeler owner and operator
associations, bus-truck owner and operator associations, hawker associations, women's groups and
garment workers. The project team has extensively studied issues related to these groups. It has also
interacted with NGOs, including women's NGOs, environmental NGOs, and other community-based
organizations (CBOs) during project preparation. NGOs representing or working with these interest
groups were actively associated with project preparation, and will be consulted during project
implementation.
Potential impacts have been studied as a part of the overall social assessment. The project will
necessitate some resettlement at sites of new flyovers, road intersections and sidewalk improvemetnts. In
the preparation of detailed designs for civil work components, an important consideration has been the
need to minimize private land acquisition and impact on existing business and residential establishments.
Through this integrated approach, design alternatives have been selected whicih have minimized negative
social impacts.
For all components together, around 6,508 sq.m. of private land will need to be acquired. About
80% of this is associated with construction of the two flyovers. The project's impact on residential
properties is quite small. Some 10 dwellings will be affected, including 7 slum dwellings. On the other
hand, some 579 non-residential establishments (offices, personal services, clinics, warehouses and
workshops) will be affected. The majority of these businesses (295) are at the twoflyover sites whiie the
next largest group (143) is at Gabtali Inter District Bus Terminal (IDBT). In addition, permanenet, semi-
permanent and mobile hawkers operating on side-walks of the roads, on Government land will also be
affected. The total for this group is 564 of which 410 (73%) are transient vendors. About 75% of them
are located at the 20 intersections to be improved. Over half of the semi-permanent stalls (62 of 126) are
associated with the Gabtali IDBT and the Jatrabari flyover. The 28 permanent stalls that will be affected
are spread throughout the project area.
A policy framework for addressing unavoidable negative impacts has been prepared in
accordance with OD 4.30. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) detailing the implementation mechaniisms
for assisting affected people with compensation, relocation, livelihood assistance, and other support
mechanisms, consistent with IDA guidelines have been agreed with GOB.
Agreement has been reached about organizational mechanisms for implementing RAP, and staff
are currently being mobilized. Since the current institutional capacity to deal with social impacts is weak,
IDA will continue to supervise carefully the development of the organizational setup for this component.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category    [IA   [x] B   [] C
In view of the significant positive environmental impact of the project, the assigned
Environmental Assessment Category is "B". A detailed environmental impact study of various project
components has been completed. Based on this, necessary mitigation measures have been incorporated
in project component design, in accordance with relevant IDA guidelines. The project will have
substantial positive impact on improving the air quality, by reducing vehicular emissions through
enforcement and new standards; in reducing congestion, road accident rates, and commuting time; and in
general improving the quality of urban life. The Department of Environment (DOE) and the BRTA have
agreed to develop and implement reforms in a number of areas that will bring substantial improvements
to the air quality. Some of these are: (a) develop and enforce emission standards for new and in-use
vehicle imports of two-stroke engines, and other vehicles; (b) restrict new registrations, leading to the



Page 17
eventual phasing out of highly polluting two-stroke engine three wheelers (baby-taxis); (c) provide
incentives for increasing the share of bus transport with newer/better (less polluting) buses; (d) provide
equipment for enforcement of standards; (e) evaluate and promote ways to reduce emissions from two
stroke and diesel vehicles; (f) conduct awareness raising campaigns; (g) establish vehicular safety and
emissions monitoring capability at BRTA; (h) collect and disseminate ambient air quality data (especially
for critical traffic intersections) through DOE; and (i) promote other related activities for control of air
pollution within the Greater Dhaka area. A separate IDA-supported, air quality management project for
DMA is also being developed in cooperation with DOE, which is consistent with DUTP.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced. if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
Consultation and Collaboration:
During project preparation, the urban community in Dhaka metropolitan area was consulted
extensively. These included representatives of government agencies, the Chamber of Commerce,NGOs,
community groups, vehicle manufacturers and assemblers, research institutes, women's groups, vehicle-
owner and drivers and operators associations (of buses, trucks, 2-stroke engine three-wheelers and
rickshaws), rickshaw-pullers' association, and other stakeholders. A number of demand assessments of
affected people were carried out. A household survey was carried out by a local NGO to assess the
specific transport constraints of poor women in Dhaka city. The survey was followed by a participation
workshop with university students, garment workers, and other working women, who face major
transport constraints at present. A survey of rickshaw pullers association and users of the pilot premium
bus services were also carried out. Other detailed surveys of the key stake-holders, relevant government
agencies, banking institutes, academic institutes, community groups, beneficiaries were also carried out.
The findings of consultations were utilized for the project design. A workshop to discuss ways to reduce
air pollution was conducted in collaboration with all stakeholders and recommendations are being
incorporated in this and other projects. More workshops with user groups are planned. Similarly,
support mechanisms developed as part of the project's Resettlement Action Plan have been developed
through consultations with potentially affected people.
During implementation of this project, extensive consultation and collaboration with key
stakeholders on an continued basis is envisaged. Technical assistance is being provided under the project
to facilitate such consultation and collaboration. Government has set up Public Consultation Commilittee
(PCC) for the project under the Chairmanship of Dhaka Mayor with representation for key user-interests;
PCG meets frequently. Localized participation groups facilitated by NGOs are also envisaged.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries include pedestrian commuters, users of public transport (buses), other
motorized and non-motorized vehicle users, and private bus operators, and the large community of DMA
residents, and business man establishments. Affected groups include various categories of residential and
business establishments affected by land acquisition and resettlement, and operators of two-stroke auto-
rickshaws.
b. Other key stakeholders: None
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed project fosters a new approach to urban transport planning in DMA, which places
more emphasis and responsibility directly on the community, and is geared to their priorities. A major



Page 18
thrust of the proposed project is on the "software" components, aimed at improving traffic management
and enforcement of traffic regulations, bettering roads rehabilitation and establishing maintenance
standards, and strengthening line agencies capability to monitor and coordinate transport planning in
Dhaka, these efforts would cumulatively improve sustainability. The proposed project is also seen as the
first major effort in providing a sustainable, long-term solution to the mounting urban transport problems
in DMA, to be followed by other potential projects (which will be studied under DUTP).
A key action in ensuring sustainability of the proposed investments is addressing cost recovery
and O&M issues. This will be through the establishment of a Road and Traffic Mailtelnalnce Fund
(RTMF, see also section C. 2) for Dhaka Metropolitan Area. Establishment of RTMF will ensure
adequate funding for periodic and routine maintenance of DCC's road infrastructure network including
roads, footpaths, drains, etc., primarily from user charges. Annual budget requirement for thie proposed
RTMF, estimates based on requests of O&M for the new facilities and all existing facilities will be shared
between GOB and DCC at a ratio of 60:40 respectively, with DCC share increasing in the last year, and
be managed as a separate, designated account. This will be operationalized in 1999/2000. RTMF will
have stakeholder supervision and proper auditing to ensure that funds are used for maintenanice. In
addition GOB/DCC will prepare and implement two plans, one for improved management and the other
for adequate cost recovery, in consultation with IDA, to ensure better managemenit of the Inter-District
Bus Terminals and adequate cost recovery from the investments made by the project. Sustainability will
also be enhanced by creating an enabling environment for private sector participation in the provision of
buses (private sector share being about 95%); through public participation in project preparation and
implementation, including service users and providers; organizing public awareness programs; enhancing
technical capacity of DCC for roads maintenance; and enhancing DMP capability for traffic monitoring
and enforcing regulations.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                      Risk            Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Institutional Risks: Inadequate coordination  M     Established a new  agency (GDTPCB) to
among different line agencies, weak project        address present problems in coordination in
management capacities.                              urban transport planning and coordination.
Also, important role during DUTP for
coordination.
Central government support througlh the
executing  agency. Program  manlagement
support to GDTPCB. Technical support
through TA consultants. Capacity building
support through TA in traffic management,
regulatory   environment,  safety   and
environment.
A higher Secretary-level Committee for inter-
ministerial coordination which has worked
well during project preparation.
Operational Risks: Failure to implement bus  M      Pilot  program  initiated  during  project



Page 19
priority schemes, traffic management and           preparation to test viability of bus priority
implementation schemes, road maintenance,          schemes was very successful; increased role
controlling growth of 2-stroke engines, and        for private sector in bus operations; TA for
keeping sidewallks clear of encroachments          improved traffic management; RTMF for
ensuring O&M; strengthening BRTA for
monitoring vehicle inspection; and support
for DOE for setting up air quality standards
and monitoring these.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Procurement risks: Delays in necessary land  M     Executing agency to identify resettlement
acquisition   where   needed,  and  in              needs, procurement packaging and schedule.
procurement of equipment, works, and               Use of standard bidding documents and
consultanms.                                       procedures. Workshop on Bank procurement
by consultants. Advance actions before IDA
Board (in appointing project supervision
consultants and key project staff). Putting all
project procedures and staff in place is a
credit effectiveness condition.
Implementation  risks:  Difficult  traffic  S      Comprehensive preparation, involving all
diversion   management  plans   during             concerned agencies, sequencing of civil work
implementation of civil works.                     components, coordination with DMP and
DCC in preparing the advance traffic
diversion, recruitment of an enforcement
specialist and 200 additional policemen in
DMP during implementation.
Operational risks: (a) Insufficient experience  M   Sufficient TA resources to procure equipment
with  traffic  planning, management and            for BRTA for measurement of ambient air
enforcement,  implementation  of vehicle           quality, mobile axle  load checking  and
standards, emission controls.                      pollution  monitoring; strengthening  DCC
technical units for road maintenance and
traffic engineering units; training of DMP
traffic police, and strengthening of BRTA
staff. Training for related staff in key project
agencies.
(b) Problems with contractor or consultants  N     International   Supervision    Consultants
performance                                        Workshops and training -- strengthening of
BRTA/DCC management skills.
(c) Problems with institutional capacities to  H   Considerable attention paid to enhance the
execute their components in a timely manner        capacity of the various institutions involved,
through TA and training. Also special project
management and coordination arrangements
envisaged  within  these  institutions  to
minimize such risks. Completing of all key
appointments  of  staff,  consultants  and



Page 20
implementing modalities as conditions of
Board.
Financing   risks:   Counterpart  budget     N       Financing plans endorsed by Government,
shortages                                            DCC  share relatively  small, and  review
shows it is within its annual income.
Construction risks: Delays in construction   N       Specific attention given in the design to
phase of flyovers, causing congestion during         minimize    construction    delays    and
construction period                                  development of alternate  routes  during
construction   phase,   also   Institutional
strengthening in traffic management of DCC,
DMP, BRTA and RHD.
Delays or inadequacies in implementation of   S      Systematic supervision by IDA  to ensure
Resettlement Action Plan caused by lack of           overall coordination; technical assistance to
institutional capacity  to  address  social          selected  project  personnel  to  enhance
impacts                                              capacity; partnerships with local NGOs and
other civil society organizations.
Inadequate private sector response/credit    M       Powerful market incentives (such as vehicle
availability  to  invest in  bus fleets, to         free-tariff setting, and reduced operative costs
complement   DUTP's   public   sector                brought through DUTP) expected to work in
investments.                                         favor of adequate private sector response, as
has already happened in other city bus routes.
The pilot initiative already brought above 100
new buses. More being planned by many
firms. GOB/IDA assisted through bus
financing seminars and bus depots.
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Overall reception to the project from press and the public alike, have been very positive. There
have been very complimentary media reports pointing to the importance of DUTP and praising various
on-going and proposed initiatives (like the Premium Bus Services) under the project;NGO's have also
been supportive of the project's positive approach to vulnerable groups like, poor cycle-rickshaw pullers
(since project wants to give them positive role, rather than ban them), garment workers and women.
Every care is being taken to involve affected persons/groups through proactive participatory
means, and to follow IDA Guidelines on resettlement action planning. However, because of the political
polarization and other sensitivities, some protests cannot be ruled out from persons affected by the project
such as, those affected by potential land acquisition, hawkers who may have to be cleared from side
streets in some cases to ensure pedestrians' priority, and auto-rickshaw operators whose polluting
vehicles will face new restrictions under the project. Auto-rickshaw owners' association has already
established a co-operative for replacement of the existing two-stroke engine three-wheelers by minibuses
and taxis, and in future, by less polluting 4-stroke engine three wheelers. We are facilitating this process,
particularly in terms of providing guidance to access financing from banks and non-bank financial
institutions.



Page 21
G: Main Credit Conditions
There will be a Development Credit Agreement (DCA) with GOB and a Project Agreement (PA) with
DCC.
1. Effectiveness C-onditions:
(a) Association to receive evidence that GOB and DCC have established project management
arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(b) Signing of the Subsidiary Grant Agreement (SGA) between GOB and DCC; and
(c) Receipt of legal opinions regarding DCA, PA and SGA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements]:
Other:
During negotiations, in addition to standard covenants, agreement was reached with GOB and DCC on
the following aspects:
(a) Project management arrangements: Establishment of the Project Coordination Unit ( PCU) under
GDTPCB, and PlUs under other implementing agencies, staffing them with qualified staff, and
maintaining these units during project implementation to implement and monitor project; and to keep
a high level Secretaries' committee for inter-Ministerial consultation to expedite project
implementation;
(b) Financing arrangements: Two special accounts, one under DCC and another under PCU; retroactive
financing of early works, rehabilitation of flood damaged roads and related technical assistance,
subject to these works/TA meeting all IDA procedures;
(c) Auditing arrangements, including annual audits by private auditors, and two operational audits before
mid-term review and project closing;
(d) Completion of GDTPCB staffing plan and all appointments by end-April 1999;
(e) Phased plan for funding RTMF from July 1999, with agreed annual funding levels from GOB and
DCC up to year 2004, and arrangements for overseeing the fund's operation with the involvement of
private sector and other agencies, and the fund's audit;
(f) Preparation by DCC of annual maintenance plan for roads and traffic facilities, for IDA review, and
its implementation;
(g) Preparation by DCC of a management improvement plan for the bus terminals improved under the
project, and an adequate cost-recovery plan from the terminals, satisfactory to IDA, before award of
contracts, for implementation under a time-phased program;
(h) Implementing a national road user charge recovery plan to be agreed with IDA in the light of the
Road User Charges Study being completed under the on going RRMP 2 project;
(i) Keeping free market entry for private sector bus operators in DMA subject to safety and quality
standards, deregulated fare-structure for premium bus operations and taking all actions to ensure free
and fair competition among operators; review of the changes needed in bus and other transport
vehicle operations and regulatory system at mid-term review of the project, based on a study of the
growth of bus transport services after the first two years of the project, to be completed by GOB;
(j) Prior review by GDTPCB before the undertaking of any new transport infrastructure investments
exceeding US$ 5m per project in DMA, and exchanging views with IDA to ensure that there is no
conflict with DUTP components;
(k) Project monitoring to be done as per agreed plan, with impact studies before project completion;
(I) Implementation of RAP and EAP as per IDA guidelines, as agreed at negotiations; and
(m) Implement following actions to reduce transport related air-pollution in Dhaka/Bangladesh:
(i) discontinue registration of additional two-stroke engine three-wheelers in Dhaka after July 1,



Page 22
1999;
(ii) phase out from Dhaka all existing two-stroke engine three wheelers by January 1, 2003;
(iii) discontinue importation of two-stroke engine three-wheelers and their engines, and
reconditioned buses, into Bangladesh by July, 2001; and
(iv) develop vehicle-specific emission standards for all types of imported and locally assembled
motor vehicles by June 30, 2000.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [ I Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ I The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[l ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader/Task Leader: Thamn   a a SASIN)
Sector Manager: Frannie Humplick (SASIN)
Country Direr: Frederick Temple (SASBD)



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                  Performance Indicators              Monitoring &          Assumptions/Risk
Evaluation*
CAS Objectives:                                                                            GOAL to Bank Mission
Accelerate economic
growth and reduce poverty
by among other measures:
increasing both public and
private investments in
critical infrastructure
areas, institutional
strengthening, reforming
regulatory framework and
fostering participation of
the poor in the growth
process
Project Development                                                                        DO to GOAL:
Objective (DO):
1. Improve urban transport  1.1 Living and vork environment in greater  Economic           1. I Future growth of the city
services in an            Dhaka area improved;                          surveys;          is in conformity vith
environmentally           1.2 Road capacities increased through traffic  Traffic surveys;    coordinated development
sustainable manner for    management and improvements/rehabilitation of   Air quality      plans;
Dhaka residents, including   road network;                              surveys:           1.2 Implementing agencies
vomen and poor people.    1.3 Pedestrian safety enhanced;               Bus transport      have the necessary resources
1.4 Bus services improved, providing better   study by mid-     and competent staff to
access to women and low-income groups:        term review.      manage and enforce traffic
1.5 Environmental pollution from 2-stroke auto-                 rules;
rickshaws, poor quality buses and trucks reduced.                1.3 Suitable measures are
put in place to control
growth of 2-stroke engines;
1.4 Incentives to allow the
private sector to invest in
urban buses are in place.
2. Institutional and Policy   2.1 GDTPCB adequately staffed and functional    Records of   2.1 Relevant staff made
Framework strengthenied.   by July 31, 1999:                            implementing       available for training and
2.2 PCU and PlUs within key agencies fully    agency            stays on the job for an
staffed and functional;                                         extended period.
2.3 Staff in implementing agencies trained.
Project Outputs:                                                                           Output to DO:
I. Reduction in           I. I Average delay at most critical intersections  Transport     1.1 Traffic management
congestion and delays     reduced by 50% by the end of project:         surveys,           plans are implemented
1.2 Average speed by motorized vehicles       Records of        1.2 Trained police force
increased from 15 km/hour to 30 km/hour by the   implementing   available during construction
end of project:                               agency            phase for traffic management
1.3 Parking area plans prepared and implemented                 1.3 Land made available for
at two locations by mid-term review and four                    developing parking facilities
locations by end of project..                                   and complementary measures
to ban/restrict parking in the
adjoining area introduced;
2. Expansion of private   2.1 Premium bus services introduced along 3   PCU,PIU            2.1 Land for bus terminals
bus services              corridors by December 1999 and 10 by August,   records;          provided by DCC
2002;                                         Transport surveys  2.2 Bus fares increased
2.2 No. of buses in private sector in DMA                       annually to keep pace with



increased from the present 1600 approximately, to             inflation;
2500 by end of project;                                        2.3 Incentives provided by
2.3 Average waiting time for buses at key bus                  the Government to import
stops reduced by at least 30% by 2002;                        both diesel and CNG buses
2.4 At least one private sector bus depot to be set
up by December, 2000 and three by December.
2002.
3. Pedestrian facilities  3.1 40 kms. of sidewalks constructed during  Data collected by   3.1 Sidewalks kept clear of
improved                 project period;                              project agency    illegal encroachments and
3.2 Three pedestrian foot over-bridges                        maintained
constructed by December 2001; and about 7 more
by December 2002.
4. Implementation        4.1  10 engineers trained in DCC by 2001;    Training records   4.1 Technical staff made
capacity strengthened in    4.2 250 policemen added for traffic management   of implementing   available for training
DCC, BRTA                by June 30, 1999;                            agency
and DMP                  4.3 At least 75% of the total traffic police staff in
DMA trained by December 2000;
4.4 5 transport professionals trained in BRTA by
mid-term review.
5. Roads are rehabilitated   5.1 Advanced road works completed by     Implementation    5.1 DCC statf use new skills
and maintained including    December, 2000 and 10 km per year till the end    records   Adequate funds are made
road safety improvements   of project;                                                  available for maintenance
5.2 Drainage improved at 20 intersections by
2002 and two flyovers by 2003.
6. Vehicle-related       6.1 Roadside emission checks performed on at    BRTA baseline    6.1 Emission systems
pollution reduced        least 3000 auto rickshaws and 500 bus/trucks  statistics and   designed and in place by
every year from year 2001, and statistics    regular follow-up  June, 1999
compiled;                                    surveys and DoE   6.2 Government will
6.2 Importation into Bangladesh of two-stroke  measurements    continue to enforce ban on 2-
engine three wheelers and reconditioned buses,                 stroke three wheelers and not
banned by July 01, 2001;                                      allow more polluting
6.3 New and in-use vehicle standards by type, to   Draft standards    industries to be located in
be developed by June 30, 2000;                                Dhaka city.
6.4 Phasing out from Dhaka all existing two-
stroke engine three wheelers by January 01. 2003.
7. Address long-term     7.1 Long-term urban transport plan developed by   PCU/PIU records  7.1 Close involvement of all
transport planning issues    2002;                                                      agencies responsible for
for Dhaka metropolitan   7.2 Plans to improve commuter rail and IWT                     urban growth and traffic
area.                    developed by end of 2002.                                      planning.
Project Components
Physical Investments
I. Civil works for traffic    1. I Around 30 intersections improved;  PIU progress      I. Procurement: Timely land
management.              1.2 Medians, road signs, bus laybys constructed;   reports     acquisition, procurement of
pavements rehabilitated etc.;                                 works and equipment, and
1.3 Completing 60 kms. of main road                           appointment of consultants;
improvement, including Tongi link road;                       2. Financing: Sufficient
1.4 Completing rehabilitation of flood damaged                counterpart funds;
roads (about 200kms) in DMA.                                  3. Construction Adequate
supervision, and cost and
quality control on works.
2. Facilities for NMT    2.1 Secondary road links for NMT constructed at
improved.                three locations, to improve NMT network;
2.2 Underpasses for facilitating NMT movement
constructed at 3 locations;
2.3 Parking facilities for NMT on secondary
roads improved.



3. Grade separated        3.1 Two facilities constructed at Jathrabari and
interchange facilities    Mahakhali.
constructed.
Equipment and Vehicles
1. Equipment and vehicles  1. I Equipment and vehicles procured for
procured for              DCCIDMP/BRTA/ DOE and GDTBCB.
implementing/ project
agencies.
Technical Assistance and
Project Support
1. Provide technical      1. I DSM Consultants appointed to oversee
assistance for            further design, project supervision and
implementation. policy    monitoring;
support, institutional    1.2 Consultants for institutional support and
development and follow-    training for DCC. BRTA, DMP, RAJUK.
up project preparation.   GDTPCB appointed by September 1999:
1.3 DMP trained in traffic control and at least
75% of the DMP traffic police trained by 2001;
1.4 Long-term strategic transport plan developed
by 2002;
1.5 Feasibility Study of Dhaka Ring Road. and
preliminary engineering and feasibility of follow-
up project (DUTP-2) completed by December
2002.
t NOT : Sonic benchmarks will be established within 6 months of project approval by IDA, with the help of DSM consultants.



Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
A.    Project Components:
1.     Project Component 1 - Infrastructure Development (US$ 178.2 million)
This includes new infrastructure components, rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, particularly
roads, traffic management measures, and other facilities. A list of sub-components under this component
is given below:
Traffic Management Measures and System  Improvements: The project places considerable
emphasis on efficient traffic management measures tlhrough a variety of traffic system and infrastructure
improvements. The critical points in urban road networks are the junctions on primary arterial roads. A
significant part of the DUTP project is aimed at improving junctions throughout Dhaka with pavement
reconstruction, better channelization, separation of motorized and non-motorized traffic, diversion or
prohibition of rickshaws at certain key junctions, protected right turn lanes, improved traffic control using
modern traffic signal equipment or roundabouts, measures to reduce risks for pedestrians, increase traffic
capacity and where appropriate implement special measures to help buses avoid traffic congestion.
Twenty (20) important intersections have been designed for such improvements under the project. About
ten additional intersections will be improved during project implementation.
Where feasible, diversion routes will be provided for rickshaws so that these vehicles will not use
the junctions, thus reducing congestion. However, where this is not feasible other measures, such as
banning right turns by rickshaws will be explored. On some routes, rickshaws will be separated from
motor vehicles by suitable barriers e.g. the design for Progati-Sorani includes widening by one lane on
each side and a low profile separator between NMV and MV lanes. Traffic signals will be provided at
key pedestrian crossings, except for those locations where pedestrian footbridges are provided.
Road Improvements. Several existing roads will be rehabilitated or improved under the project.
In some cases, this will involve simple improvements such as repaving or traffic markings; however the
project will also assist certain roads for widening the ROW. The project will not be funding any
significant new roads. Some 60 km of the roads will be taken up for improvement under the project,
including a link to Tongi involving major improvement of an existing road link.
Bus Lanes and Laybys. Provision of bus lanes along selected bus routes that have been identified
as a priority. Bus bays and laybys will be provided at a suitable distance from intersections where right-
of-ways are sufficient to incorporate these features; including road improvements and widening the ROW
of certain existing roads.
Rehabilitation of existing Bus Terminals: The project will fund the rehabilitation of three (3)
existing inter-district bus terminals at Saidabad, Mohakhali and Gabtoli, including siteworks, parking area
reconstruction, covered sidewalks, toilets and passenger waiting arrangements. These terminals are
currently major sources of traffic congestion in the city. The design of existing bus terminals will be
suitably altered to separate conflicting pedestrian and traffic movements, facilitate smooth interchange
between inter-city and city buses, as well as buses to other modes, and enhance capacity of these
terminals.
Pedestrian Facilities Improvements: Although pedestrian trips constitute a vast majority of the
overall trip by mode, pedestrians lack even basic facilities and amenities. The project will pay attention to
rehabilitating existing sidewalks, construction of around 40 kilometers of new sidewalks along existing



major arterial roads and construction of about ten pedestrian footbridges, out of which three have been
designed. Traffic signals at key pedestrian crossings will be provided at appropriate locations, where
pedestrian footbridges do not exist.
NMT Network Improvements: The project envisages a positive role for non motorized transport,
particularly human-pedaled cycle-rickshaws, in the provision of urban transport services. The cycle-
rickshaws will complement bus services by providing feeder services on secondary road network, which
constitutes about 90% of the city's 2000 km. road network. Improved facilities for parking and traffic for
NMT will be provided on these secondary and local roads. In order to reduce NMT use on main arteries,
alternative routes will be provided for their use to bypass important junctions and highways. With this
view, three additional road links and three underpasses will be developed to facilitate a pilot NMT
network, that will decongest main arterial roads and divert NMT to secondary roads. Besides this, on
some routes like the Progati-Sorani Road, rickshaws will be separated from motor vehicles by suitable
barriers, like widening by one lane on each side and providing a low profile separator between NMT and
MV lanes.
Grade-separated Interchange Facilities: The project will assist the construction of two (2)
overpasses at the Jatrabari and Mohakhali intersections. Existing conditions at these two intersections are
extremely chaotic; high traffic volumes combined with poor traffic management and poor road capacities
have resulted in long waiting times and large-scale traffic congestion at these intersections.
Mohahkali Flyover: DUTP feasibility studies considered two alternative flyover schemes at
Mohakhali. On the basis of detailed analysis, the detailed design has been undertaken for a main 4-lane
flyover from the Airport road over the railway to the road leading to the Old Airport Road.
Jatrabari Flyover: DUTP feasibility studies considered one flyover scheme for Jatrabari which
connected the Dhaka/Chittagong roads, with a signalized intersection at grade. This scheme has been
taken on to the detailed design stage. The options for extending the Jatrabari flyover west to Saidabad
with additional ramps for traffic going south to the Buriganaga Bridge and north to Khilgaoln have also
been examined, and included in the detailed design, which will be the basis for construction contract.
Flood Damage Rehabilitation ofRoads and Drainage: This item consists of civil works for the
rehabilitation of about 200 km of existing roads and associated drainage damaged during the 1998 floods.
This is part of the emergency program put together by GOB and various funding agencies to address the
severe damage to infrastructure inflicted by the unprecedented I in 100 year flood of August - September
1998.
2.    Project Coimponent 2 - Equipment Support (US$ 10.9 million)
Equipment and Vehicles: This component will provide the project agencies responsible for
transport sector management and operation with necessary equipment, computers and accessories, and
vehicles to strengthen the technical and institutional capacity of these organizations in the long run and
for immediate project implementation and supervision support. All five project agencies will receive
equipment support; three main institutions that will receive equipment under the project are:
Dhaka City Corporation: Items of equipment to be provided to DCC are: computers and
software, patrol vehicles, pickups/minibuses, towing vehicles, motorcycles, parking clamps and other
traffic enforcement equipment, road maintenance equipment, office equipment and computerized traffic
signal equipment.
Dhaka Metropolitan Police: Items of equipment to be provided to DMP are: patrol vehicles,
pickups/minibuses, towing vehicles, motorcycles, speed detectors, alcohol testers, parking clamps and



other miscellaneous traffic enforcement equipment and teaching aids and equipment for DMP Traffic
Police Training Institute.
Bangladesh Road Transport Authority: The items of equipment for environmental enforcement
and monitoring will include several sets of fixed and mobile equipment for measuring vehicle emissions
(carbon monoxide, smoke, hydro-carbons, noise, and nitrogen oxides). In addition, computer equipment
of BRTA for vehicle registration, licensing and vehicle road worthiness testing will be upgraded.
3.    Project Component 3 - Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (US$ 24.9
million)
The project will provide institutional support, including strengthening of traffic maniagement,
project supervision  and  management, financial management, environmental management and
performance monitoring to GDTPCB, DCC and other implementing agencies, throughl training,
consultants' services and equipment. The project has identified institutional strengtheninlg and capacity
building as a major priority. This is also in line with the key objective identified under the CAS, which
places utmost importance on building institutional capacities. The important sub-componenits under this
are:
Project Preparation & Implementation Support, including Design, Supervision & Mon7itoring:
The complexities of the project call for support of expert consultant teams to assist GOB agelncies in the
preparation, implementation, supervision and monitoring of various components under the project. Most
components have already been designed with assistance from  preparation consultants: design of
additional items and supervision and monitoring of the project will be assisted by new DSM consultants.
These consultants have been recruited before IDA Board presentation.
Financial Management Services: It is critical to put in place proper financial & technlical
management and audit systems for effective implementation and long-term sustainability of the project.
For GDTPCB/PCU the financial and technical capacities will be established, and for DCC and RHD,
these will be strengthened. The project will also fund annual financial audits of all project-related
accounts and two operational audits by independent private auditors.
Institutional Development & Training: Five key agencies associated with the project will receive
support for institutional capacity building and training. These agencies are GDTPCB, DCC, RAJUK,
DMP and BRTA. An assessment of their institutional strengthening and training needs has been done as
part of project preparation. Apart from training, other requirements for institutional capacity building,
including creating the necessary legal and financial framework for effective institutional capacity will
also be met under the project. Technical expertise required in different areas, for strengtlheninlg the
agencies' capacity and for training have been identified and these will be recruited throughl one
consulting firm. The key elements of the institutional strengthening and training sub-component are, as
follows:
-     developing DCC technical and financial units, including its traffic management, project
management and maintenance capacities;
-     providing training to DMP on regulations, enforcement, traffic safety, traffic education, publicity
campaign and monitoring etc.;
-     developing institutional capacity and providing training to BRTA on environmental controls and
monitoring, road safety, registration etc.;
-     developing institutional capacity of GDTPCB on various transport planning, road safety and
traffic engineering related issues;
developing construction and monitoring capacity in DCC and RHD; and
developing institutional capacity and training in regional planning for RAJUK, and in



environmental management for DOE.
4.     Project Component 4 - Policy Support and Future Studies (US$ 9.5 million)
Preparation of Long-term Transport Strategic Plan: A key long-term objective of the project is
the preparation of a long-term (20 year) Transport Plan for Metropolitan Dhaka Area, that will identify
key future issues, strategize priorities and ensure economically efficient and environmentally compatible
transport development and related policy framework; it will in particular study different mass transport
options to meet the future needs of Dhaka. The project will support the preparation for such a plan,
through competent consultants. This work will be coordinated through GDTPCB. It will indicate a phased
transport investment plan in coordination with DMA's regional development plan.
Feasibility study for Follow-up Project: The investments in the present project focuses on the
most immediate and pressing problems associated with urban transport in Dhaka city. This project, by
itself, is not expected to meet all the current infrastructure backlogs, much less its future needs. The
project will therefore support a feasibility study that will identify and detail the scope of a follow-up
project, which will be consistent with the long-term strategic transport plan, for support by IDA or other
agencies.
Feasibility study for Dhaka Ring Road: A new Dhaka Ring Road has been identified as a
strategic and critical long-term requirement. The project will support a feasibility study to examine the
scope, potential alignments, and preliminary technical and economic analysis of the Ring Road. The Ring
Road will have two segments: (a) Western segment from Tongi to Mirpur to Buriganga Bridge I onto
Demra, and (b) the Eastern segment (Bypass road alignment option no. 3). Since the Eastern segment has
already been studied and is likely to be implemented, the new study under DUTP will focus on the
Western segment.
4.     Project Component 5 - Land Acquisition and Resettlement (US$ 10.7 million)
The project will necessitate some resettlement and land acquisition at sites of newflyovers, road,
intersections and sidewalk improvements. A policy framework for addressing unavoidable negative
impacts, and a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), detailing the implementation mechanisms for assisting
affected people with compensation, relocation, livelihood assistance, and other support mechaniisms, have
been prepared in accordance with OD 4.30 and other IDA guidelines; this has been agreed withi GOB.
While GOB will finance 100% of compensation for land acquisition and income restitution to directly
affected people, the project will finance 90% of community benefits under the project, and 90% of
administrative costs under the resettlement program.



Page I of Annex 3
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
(Taka Million)                 (US$ Million)
Local    Foreign     Total      Local   Foreign   Total
A. Traffic Management
1. Intersection Improvements                       209.8      147.0      356.8       4.3       3.0      7.3
2. Road Improvements Adj. to Intersections          886.1     607.0    1,493.1      18.3      12.5     30.8
3. Traffic Flow Improvements                        49.9       34.1       84.0       1.0       0.7      1.7
4. Parking Facilities                                36.1      24.7       60.8       0.7       0.5      1.2
5. Auto Restricted Zones                             0.5        0.3        0.8       0.0       0.0      0.0
Subtotal Traffic Management                        1,182.4     813.1    1,995.5      24.3      16.7      41.0
B. Road Improvements
1. Road Works                                      694.8      474.7    1,169.5      14.3      9.8      24.1
2. Tongi Link Road Construction                      33.4      22.8       56.2       0.7       0.5      1.2
Subtotal Road Improvements                           728.2     497.5    1,225.7      15.0      10.3      25.3
C. Bus & Route Improvements
1. Bus only Lanes                                   20.8       17.4       38.2       0.4      0.4       0.8
2. Bus Stops and Other                               38.1      31.9       70.0       0.8       0.7      1.5
Subtotal Bus & Route Improvements                     58.9      49.3      108.2       1.2       1.1       2.3
D. Rehabilitation of Existing Bus Terminals
1.Works at Bus Terminals                           200.5      139.9      340.4       4.1      2.9       7.0
2. Road Works adj. to Bus Terminals                213.7      149.0      362.6       4.4       3.1      7.5
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Existing Bus Terminals    414.1     288.9      703.0       8.5       6.0      14.5
E. Pedestrian Facilities Improvements
1. Construction of Footbridges                      18.1       18.5       36.6       0.4      0.4       0.8
2. Construction/improvement of Sidewalks            110.1      75.2      185.3       2.3       1.6      3.9
Subtotal Pedestrian Facilities Improvements          128.2      93.7      221.9       2.7       2.0       4.7
F. Non-Motorized Transport (NMT) Network
Improvements
1. Secondary Road Links                             26.1       17.1       43.3       0.5       0.4      0,9
2. Underpasses                                      114.3      60.4      174.8       2.4       1.2      3.6
Subtotal Non-Motorized Transport (NMT) Network       140.5      77.6      218.0       2.9       1.6       4.5
Improvements
G. Grade Separated Interchanges
1. Jatrabari                                       473.5      319.3      792.8       9.8      6.6      16.4
2. Mohakhil                                        611.6      419.5    1,031.1      12.6       8.6     21.2
Subtotal Grade Separated Interchanges              1,085.1     738.8    1,823.9      22.4      15.2      37.6
H. Flood Damage Rehabilitation of Roads
1. Roads & Drainage                                483.7      330.5      814.1      10.0      6.8      16.8
Subtotal Flood Damage Rehabilitation of Roads        483.7     330.5      814.1      10.0       6.8      16.8
I. Equipment
1. Dhaka City Corporation                           29.5      121.3      150.8       0.6      2.5       3.1
2. Dhaka Metropolitan Police Department             21.8       89.6      111.4       0.4       1.8      2.2
3. Bangladesh Road Transport Authority               19.0      78.1       97.1       0.4       1.6      2.0
4. GDTPCB/PCU                                        19.1      39.9       59.1       0.4       0.8      1.2
5. DoE                                               9.9       20.7       30.6       0.2      0.4       0.6
Subtotal Equipment                                    99.3     349.5      448.9       2.0       7.1      9.1
J. Technical Assistance
1. Project Preparation and Support                 331.8      376.8      708.6       6.8      7.8      14.6
2. Institutional Development and Training           93.3      186.2      279.5       1.9       3.8      5.7
3. Policy Support and Studies                       115.8     277.6      393.4       2.4       5.7      8.1
Subtotal Technical Assistance                        540.9     840.6    1,381.5      11.1      17.3      28.4
K. ReseKtlement Costs
1. Other Resettlement Activities                    59.0          -       59.0       1.2        -       1.2
Subtotal Resettlement Costs                           59.0         -       59.0       1.2         -       1.2
L. Land Acquisition and Compensation
1. Land Acquisition and Compensation for PAP       388.0          -      388.0       8.0        -       8.0
Subtotal Land Acquisition and Compensation           388.0         -      388.0       8.0         -       8.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                5,308.3   4,079.5    9,387.8     109.3     84.1    193.4
Physical Contingencies                             505.6      413.1      918.7      10.9       8.5     19.3
Price Contingencies                                773.9      297.3    1,071.3      15.5       5.9     21.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 6,587.8   4,790.0   11,377.8     135.7      98.5    234.2
NOTE: Figures may not match due to rounding up.
t Includes local taxes and duties estimated at USS 22 m. equivalent.



Page 2 of Annex 3
Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
The      Dhaka City
Govemment Corporation   IDA         Total
A. Traffic Management
1. Intersection Improvements                                             1.3          0.9      6.6     8.8
2. Road Improvements adj. to Intersections                               5.7          3.8    28.3    37.8
3. Traffic Flow Improvements                                             0.3          0.2      1.6     2.1
4. Parking Facilities                                                    0.2          0.1      1.1      1.4
5. Auto Restricted Zones                                                 0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0
Subtotal Traffic Management                                                7.5          5.0    37.6    50.1
P. Road Improvements
1. Road Works                                                            4.4          2 9    22.0    29.3
2. Tongi Link Road Construction                                          0.2          0.1      1.1      1.4
Subtotal Road Improvements                                                 4.6          3.0    23.1     30.7
C. Bus & Route Improvements
1. Bus only Lanes                                                        0.1          0.1     0.7      0.9
2. Bus Stops and C)ther                                                  0.3          0.2      1.3      1.8
Subtotal Bus & Route Improvements                                          0.4          0.3     2.0      2.7
D. Rehabilitation of Existing Bus Terminals
1. Works at Bus Terminals                                                1.3          0.8     6.2      8.3
2. Road Works adj. to Bus Terminals                                      1.4          0.9      6.6     8.9
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Existing Bus Terminals                          2.7          1.7    12.8    17.2
E. Pedestrian Facilities Improvements
1. Construction of Footbrikges                                           0.1          0.1      0.6     0.8
2. Construction/Improvement of Sidewalks                                 0.7          0.5      3.4     4.6
Subtotal Pedestrian Facilities Improvements                                0.8          0.6     4.0      5.4
F. Non-Motorized Transport (NMT) Network Improvements
1. Secondary Road Links                                                  0.2          0.1      0.8     1.1
2. Underpasses                                                           0.6          0.4      3.2     4.2
Subtotal Non-Motorized Transport (NMT) Network Improvements                0.8          0.5     4.0 .   5.3
G. Grade Separated Interchanges
1. Jatrabari                                                             5.1            -    15.2    20.3
2. Mohakhil                                                              6.6            -    19.9    26.5
Subtotal Grade Separated Interchanges                                     11.7            -    35.1    46.8
H. Flood Damage Rehabilitation of Roads
1. Roads & Drainage                                                      3.0          2.0    15.0    20.0
I. Equipment
1. Dhaka City Corporation                                                0.9            -     2.7      3.6
2. Dhaka Metropolitan Police Department                                  0.7            -      2.0     2.7
3. Bangladesh Road Transport Authority                                   0.6            -      1.8     2.4
4. GDTPCB/PCU                                                            0.4            -      1.1      1.5
5. DoE                                                                   0.2            -      0.5     0.7
Subtotal Equipment                                                         2.8            -     8.1     10.9
J. Technical Assistance
1. Project Preparation and Support                                       0.4            -    17.6    18.0
2. Institutional Development and Training                                0.0            -      6.9      6.9
3. Policy Support and Studies                                            0.0            -      9.5     9.5
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                              0.4            -    34.0    34.4
K. Resettlement Costs
1. Other Resettlement Activities                                         0.1            -      1.3     1.4
L. Land Acquisition and Compensation
1. Land Acquisition and Compensation for PAP                             9.3            -       -      9.3
Total Disbursement                                                        44.1         13.1   177.0   234.2
NOTE Figures may not match due to rounding up



Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
(Currency: US$, Unit: million, Base Year: 1998)
Summary of Benefits, Costs and Assumptions:
Economic analysis is conducted at two levels. At the first level, total project benefits are
evaluated against the costs of all physical components, equipment, and technical assistance (excluding
follow-up studies and including physical contingencies), which constitute 87% of total project cost. In
particular, the road network traffic benefits are evaluated using a network-based travel demand model.
The result from this analysis is treated as the base case in the sensitivity tests. At the second level,
detailed economic analysis is performed for each of the following major physical componenits: 20 of the
30 intersections for improvement, 2 flyovers, 3 inter-district bus terminals' rehabilitation, NMT
underpasses, and road rehabilitation. These analyses are conducted for assessing the economlic viability
of the above individual components even treated as stand-alone projects.
The quantified benefits include savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time costs. T'hese
are computed for existing traffic, induced traffic (traffic generated because of lower trip costs) and
diverted traffic (redistribution of traffic resulting from traffic diverted from alternate routes and modes
because of changes in relative trip costs). While the project would result in considerable benefits in the
form of improved traffic safety and reduced auto pollution, they have not been quantified due to slhortage
of reliable data. The estimated ERRs, therefore, are conservative and represent the low-end of total
realizable benefits.
The costs of each component include costs for physical works, detailed engilneerilng design,
implementation supervision, and physical contingencies. Annualized operations and mainitenianlce costs
are also included in the evaluation. Moreover, the costs to road users associated with loss of' road or
junction capacity during project implementation are included in the evaluation. A standard conversion
factor of 0.9, which is the latest World Bank estimate for Bangladesh, is used to convert financial costs to
economic costs. For physical components, annual maintenance cost is assumed to be 0.5% of capital
cost, and periodic (every 6 years) maintenance cost, 3% of capital cost. Assumed project life is 30 year
life for major structures and 20 years for road works. Moreover, the levels of aniiual benefits are set to
freeze at the time when traffic growth reaches capacity (approximately 10 years after implemilenitationi).
Both network and intersection traffic simulation models are used to simulate traffic performiance
under scenarios with and without project. Traffic data are based on city-wide houselhold surveys and
traffic counts conducted in 1992-93, which were updated in 1997 for the purpose of project evaluationi.
Additional data sources on bus delays at bus terminals and waiting time at bus stops were also used for
the analysis.
Unit vehicle operating costs by vehicle type and passenger travel time costs by mode were
updated based on the findings of previous studies in Dhaka and more widely for Bangladesh. Value of
travel time for business trip purpose is assumed to be 100% of trip maker's hourly income, and for other
trip purpose, 35%. The resulting value of travel time by a given mode for all purposes combined is
roughly 50% of average hourly income of the users of this mode.
The economic analysis results are summarized in Table 1. Traffic growth under the most likely
scenario is shown in Table 2.



Table 1: Cost-Benefit Analysis Results for Major Physical Components
Base Cost    % of
Project Component                     Project         ERR
Base Cost
Project including all civil works,
equipment, and technical assistance
(excluding follow-up studies)       185.4     95.8%          23%
Mjor physical components:
20 Intersections & approach roads  26.0      13.4%          28%
Jatrabari Flyover                  16.4      8.5%           20%
Mohakhali Flyover                 21.2       11.0%          19%
Inter-district bus terminals       14.5      7.5%           17%
NMT underpasses                    3.6        1.9%          18%
Road rehabilitation               24.1       12.5%          38%
Rehabilitation of flood damages   16.8       8.7%           38%
Subtotal                          122.6      63.4%     weighted 27%
Table 2: Forecast of Traffic Growth
(Estimated Peak Hour Trips by Mode)
Mode                 Year 1999     Year 2009     Year 2019
Non-motorized travel         64,085        80,679        88,607
Public transport           7,795         11,098        11,955
Otlher passenger motor vehicles  25,611        37,904         48,999
Trucks                  1,013         1,444         1,938
Total                 98,504        131,125       151,499
Proportion of Year 1999        100%          133%          154%
Sensitivity Analysis
The major sources of risks are mainly associated with components designed for road network
improvement, particularly the intersection improvements and flyovers. These risks are identified to be
lower than expected traffic growth rate, cost overruns, reduction of benefits due to lower than expected
travel speeds, and loss of road capacity due to poor traffic enforcement. These scenarios are tested in the
sensitivity analysis (see Table 3). The results of the analysis show that the project is robust to traffic,
cost, and benefit variations.  However, the results also show the importance of effective traffic
enforcement in the realization of expected traffic benefits.
A detailed technical note on the economic analysis is included in the project file.



Table 3. Sensitivity Analysis Results
Risk Scenario                  ERR
Traffic growth rate
at 7% (base case)                       23%
at 5%                                   21%
at 3%  (a)                               19%
Increase in costs
by 10%                                  21%
by 20%  (b)                              19%
Reduction in benefits
by 10%                                  21%
by 20%  (c)                              18%
Above scenarios (a), (b) and (c)           14%
combined
Loss of capacity due to poor traffic
enforcement
by 5%                                   20%
by 10%                                   17%
by 15%                                   13%



Annex 5
Financial Summary
Years Ending: December 31
(Currency: US$, Unit: million, Base year: 1998)
-I   I_________________________                                                   II                                      I
Implementation
Period
_________________________                   1999         2000   T  2001            2002         2003         Total
=__  Project  Costs                          _____________    ____________
Investment Costs                          36.3         69.5         62.4         48.3          17.7       234.2
Total                                     36.3         69.5         62.4         48.3        . 17.7       23
Financing Sources
IDA                                       26.6         52.8         47.4         36.7          13.5          177
Dhaka City Corporation                     3.2,         3.5           3.1          2.4          0.9         13.1
Government                                 6.5         13.2         11.9           9.2          3.3         44.1
Total                             _         .3E    69.5   _         __ 48.                    17.7  2_     _
I _________________________________________________  ______________________  _______69_______5_____483________



Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A)
Bank financed works, goods and services under the project will be procured in accordance with
the provisions of the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995
edition, revised in August 1996 and September 1997". The procurement methods applicable to the
various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A.
Civil Works:  Civil works amounting to some US$178 million, will be procured on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), except for contracts less than US$3 million for the
rehabilitation of some secondary roads and roadside improvements, which will be procured by National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) up to an aggregate of US$50 million, in view of the small size of the
contracts scattered over the City area. Most of the contract packages will be awarded between 1998 and
2002. The overall schedule of major procurement steps is given in the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP).
Goods: The proposed project will finance about US$1 1.0 million of equipment for the Dhaka City
Corporation, police training equipment, Bangladesh Road Transport Authority and Department of
Environment. All goods and equipment costing more than US$200,000 will be procured by ICB, except
that minor items or groups of items estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 per contract package, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding US$2.0 million, will be procured following shopping procedures on the
basis of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the Bank Guidelines for
procurement.
All contracts for works and goods will use the Bank's "Standard Bidding Documents" or other bidding
documents which are acceptable to the Bank. The Bank's "Standard Bid Evaluation Form dated April
1996" will be used for evaluation of bids for works and goods.
Technical Assistance: Procurement of consultants will be in accordance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, Janmary 1997",
revised in September 1997, which requires the use of Bank's "Standard Request for Proposals". For
time based and lump sum price (firm fixed price) assignments, contracts will be based on the "Standard
Form of Contract for Consultants' Services" issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Consultants services will be provided for:
(i)  Design, construction supervision and monitoring of project
(ii) Institutional development and training of GDTPCB, RAJUK, DCC, BRTA and DMP
(iii) Policy support and studies for preparation of long-term transport strategic plan, feasibility
study for follow-up project and feasibility study for Dhaka Ring Road.
(iv) Financial and technical audit
(v) Bus Scheduling Study



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Civil Works: All ICB contract packages will be subject to prior review. All NCB contract packages over
US$200,000 will be subject to prior review.
Goods: Procurement of goods with an individual value of more than US$200,000 will be subject to prior
review.
Consulting Services: Contracts for hiring consulting firms in excess of US$200,000 equivalent or more,
and contracts for hiring NGOs valued at US$ 100,000 equivalent or more, and individuals valued at
US$50,000 equivalent or more will be subject to prior review.
Requirernents of prior review of works, goods and contracts for consulting services are
summarized in Table B.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement under the Credit will be made against eligible expenditures within the categories
summarized in Table C, which indicates the percentages of financing for different categories of
expenditures under the project.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs):
Full documentation for all contracts requiring Bank's prior review will be sent to the Bank in support of
withdrawal applications. Expenditures for individual contracts of goods and services, for which prior
review by the Bank is not required, will be disbursed against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs); all
records evidencing such information must be retained by PPU until at least one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit is made. All
withdrawal applications in respect of civil works will be accompanied by certificates from  the
Supervision Consultants attesting that the works and materials meet the design standards and
specifications agreed by the Bank, and that the payments are in accordance with the completed works.
Accredited private auditors will conduct financial audit, including sample checks of payment certificates.
Special Account:
Two Special Accounts, one of US$ 8 million in favor of PIU, DCC (for all the DCC project components),
and one of US$ 4 million in favor of PCU (for all other project components), will be established at the
Bangladesh Bank to meet anticipated expenditures of about four months. Eligible payments greater than
one third of the Special Accounts amount may be paid by the Bank directly to suppliers at a specific
request of GOB. The Special Accounts will be replenished on the basis of reimbursed claims for eligible
expenditures received by the Bank.



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangementsl
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                   (including
contingencies)
IC1B       NCB         Other      N.B.F
1. Works
Civil Works                  128.2        50.0                                178.2
(96.0)     (37.5)                               (133.5)
2. Goods
Equipment                     8.6                      2.3                    10.9
(6.4)                    (1.7)                  ( 8.1)
3. Services
Technical Assistance and                              34.4                    34.4
Implementation Support,                              (34.0)                  (34.0)
studies and training
4. Miscellaneous
Resettlement - Other Costs                             1.4                     1.4
(1.3)                  (1.3)
Land acquisition &                                               9.3          9.3
Conipensation
Total*                      136.8        50.0        38.1        9.3         234.2
(102.4)     (37.5)      (37.0)                  (177.0)*
*Note: Figures may not match due to rounding up.
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other"
and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or
in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank IDA credit
I For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al
format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewl
Expenditure         Contract Value        Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method        Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US$                                    US $ millions
1. Works
Civil Works             5 million and over        ICB                   Yes
Under 5 million          NCB            All contract packages
Over $200,000
2. Goods
Equipment            200,000 and over           ICB                   Yes
Under 200,000     Shopping procedures          No
3. Services
Consulting Services    over 200,000           QCBS*                   Yes
50,000 to 200,000   QCBS/QBS-may be             Yes
confined to national
consultants as per
Guidelines para 2
below 50,000        Single Source/            No
Qualifications
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$25.00 m
F lor RAP, QBS may be used.
1 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$          Financing Percentage
million
1. Civil Works
(a) DCC                                 88.5                      75%
(b) Other Implementation Agencies       31.6                      75%
2. Equipment & Materials
(a) DCC                                  3.3          100% of foreign expenditure,
(b) Other Implementation Agencies        4.0          100% of local expenditure (ex
factory cost) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Incremental staff salaries
and operating costs
(a) DCC                                  I.1           90% through July 1, 2001 and
(b) Other Implementation Agencies        1.1                  60% thereafter
4. Consultants' services, training,       28.7                     100%
study tours, participatory activities
and audit services
5. Resettlement Costs                     1.3                       90%
6. Unallocated                            17.3
Total                       177.0



Contract Packaging and Procurement Method
Project Component               Contract Packages
ICB         NCB
A. Works
Roads Rehabilitation                       8            8
Interchanges                               2
Bus terminals                              1            3
Intersection and roadside improvements                  4
Pedestrian Footbridges                                  1
B. Goods
Training Equipment                         3            4



Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                    Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$484.4                 US$572.1
B. Project Schedule                           Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project                                     38 montlhs
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)         08/15/1995               08/15/1996
Appraisal mission departure                 05/24/1998               06/24/1998
Negotiations                                09/07/1998                10/26/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness               03/31/1999                _/_/19_
Prepared by: BRTA, DCC, PPU, RAJUK, DMP, DOE
Preparation assistance: Trust Funds PHRD (Japan) US$313.4m (not included under "A".)
Bark staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Thampil Pankaj                       Task Manager
Stein Lundebye                       Traffic Engineering, Road Safety and Management
Ajay Kumar                           Economic Analysis
Jaswant Channe                       Engineering and Procurement
Balakrishna Menon. P                 Urban Planning and Social & Environmental Aspects
Ernesto Corrales                     Team Assistant
S. V. Iyer                           Financial Aspects
M. Iqbal. Karim                      Project Coordination and Economic Analysis
Mohiuzzaman. Quazi                   Engineering Aspects
T. K. Barua                          Social Assessment and RAP
Suraiya Zannath                      Financial Management
Saibul Huda                          Disbursement Issues
Reidar Kvam                          Social Assessment and RAP
Jitendra Shah                        EA and Environmental Issues
S. Meenakshy                         Gender Issues
Ken Gwilliam                         Policy-related Issues
Zhi Liu                              Economic Analysis
J.P. Correia da Silva                Legal
Ranjith Wiratunga                    Disbursement
M. Bhuyian                           Institutional Issues (Consultant)
K. C. Sivaramakrishnan               Institutional Issues (Consultant)
M. Quddus Choudhury                  Legal and Institutional Issues (Consultant)
F. H. Amundsen                       Road Safety Issues (Consultant)
R. Iles                              Transport Management (Consultant)



Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Yes
B. Bank Staff Assessments
(a) Study on 'Urban Poverty in Dhaka';
(b) Study on 'Hawker Issues';
(c) Detailed Econormic Analysis Methodology
(d) Analysis of Inadequacies in the Current Financial Management System and Proposal for New
Financial Management System for the Project;
(e) Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements;
(f) Action Plan for Project Implementatior GOB and DCC agreed during credit negotiations; and
(g) Note on Project Agencies and Project Management Arrangements.
C. Other
(a) Consultant reports - DUTP Phase I and DUTP Phase 11 studies;
(b) Gender Dimensions in Transport in Dhaka Metropolitan Area; March, 1997 - Mashuda Khatun
Shefali and Pratima Paul-Majumder;
(c) Premium Bus Service Users Survey Report; March, 1998 - Mashuda Khatun Shefali;
(d) Corporate plan of Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP);
(e) Technology and Policy Options to Control Three-Wheeler Emissions in Dhaka; January, 1998 -
Energy and Environmental Analysis Inc.;
(f) Organization, Strength and Functions of DCC;
(g) Study of Pedestrian and Sidewalk Management; August, 1998 - Amanat Ullah Khan and Shahnaz
Huq Hossain;
(h) Study on Road Traffic Maintenance Fund;
(i) Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works for ICB, NCB, Procurement of Works,
Procurement of Smaller Works;
(j) DUTP Social Assessment, September, 1998 - Amanat Ullah Khan and Shahnaz HIuq Hossain;
(k) DUTP Report on 'Assessment of Financial Capability of Dhaka City Corporation to Provide
Requisite Counterpart Funds for Civil Works Construction and Project Infrastructure Management' -
Anwaruddin Chowdhury;
(I) Parking Policy and Plans Study and Vehicle Parking Guidelines for Dhaka- Kh. Neaz Rahman
(m) Study on Upgrading Rail Commuter Facilities in Narayanganj-Kamlapur-Tongi-Gazipur Corridor;
May, 1998 - Lailun Nahar Ekram, et al.;
(n) Report on Greater Dhaka Transport Planning and Coordination Board (not dated), December, 1997;
and various addendums/notes produced at different times during 1997-'98 period - KC.
Sivaramakrishnan, MA. Quddus Chowdhury and Kamaluddin Chowdhury;
(o) Study Report on Financing of Buses/Taxis for Dhaka; September, 1997 - Md. Nurul Alam, et al.;
(p) Possible Areas which Require Deeper Understanding in the Business of Leasing with Particular
reference to Road Transport; April, 1998 - G.C. Rangan;
(q) Study on Scope and Opportunities for Development of the Inland Water Transport System in
Dhaka; May, 1998 - Lailun Nahar Ekram, et al.;
(r) Traffic Engineering and Road Safety in the City of Dhaka - Finn HaraldAmundsen; and
(s) Final Report on Completion of DUTP Resettlement Census Surveys and Studies; September 15, 1998
- Amanat Ullah Khan and Shahnaz Huq Hossain.
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursemencs a/
Project ID    Credit        Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                  IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 162
Active Loans
BD-PE-40713   IDA30040       1998   GOB                                 SILK DEV PILOT PROJ.               0.00       11.35             0.00          11.09        -.05        0.00
BD-PE-44789   IDA29950       1998   GOB                                 PRIV SEC INFR DEVT                 0.00      235.00             0.00         226.33       12.22        0.00
BD-PE-9550    IDAN0380       1998   GOB                                 PRIMARY EDUC DEV                   0.00      150.00             0.00         149.01        0.00        0.00
BD-PE-40985   IDA29220       1997   GOB                                 POVERTY ALLEVIATION                0.00      105.00             0.00          55.69      -10.75        0.00
BD-PE-9482    IDA29260       1997   GOB/DWASA                           DHAKA WATER/SAN. IV                0.00       80.30             0.00          65.01       11.79        0.00
BD-PE-9518    IDA29270       1997   GOB                                 2ND RURAL RDS b MRKT               0.00      133.00             0.00         106.63        7.56        0.00
BD-PE-9484     IDA28150      1996   GOB                                 AG. RES. MANAGEMENT                0.00       50.00             0.00          40.78       26.05        0.00
BD-PE-9545    IDA27910       1996   GOB                                 RIVER BANK PROTECTIO               0.00      121.90             0.00          31.53       21.32        0.00
BD-PE-9549    IDA27830       1996   GOB                                 COASTAL EMBANKMENT R               0.00       53.00             0.00          25.52       23.71        0.00
BD-PE-9560    IDA28220       1996   GOB                                 NON-FORMAL EDUCATION               0.00       10.50             0.00           8.18         1.02       0.00
BD-PE-9496    IDA27350       1995   GOB                                 NUTRITION                          0.00       59.80             0.00          49.78       11.52        0.00
BD-PE-9533    IDA27200       1995   GOB                                 GAS INFRASTRUCTURE                 0.00      120.80             0.00          73.14       46.55       14.40
BD-PE-9465    IDA26380       1994   GOB                                 2ND ROAD REHAB & MAI               0.00      146.80             0.00          10.05      -28.97        0.00
BD-PE-9509    IDA25690       1994   GOB                                 JAMUNA BRIDGE                      0.00      200.00             0.00          17.85          .11      -1.72
BD-PE-9555    IDA24690       1993   GOB                                 FEMALE SECONDARY SCH               0.00       68.00             0.00          32.65        10.22       6.92
BD-PE-9470    IDA23970       1992   GOB                                 FOREST RESOURCES MGM               0.00       49.60             3.32          16.40        11.69       2.46
BD-PE-9559    IDA23930       1992   GOB                                 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               0.00       25.00             0.00           5.56         3.97       0.00
BD-PE-9516    IDA22330       1991   GOB                                 AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVJ               0.00       35.00             7.60           5.60       13.79        0.00
BD-PE-9529    IDA22590       1991   GOB                                 POP. & HEALTH IV                   0.00      180.00             0.00            .57       -7.79    -11.17
BD-PE-9540    IDA22320       1991   GOB                                 INLAND WATER TRANSP                0.00       45.00             0.00          25.82       24.16        0.00
BD-PE-9542    IDA21290       1990   GOB                                 RURAL ELECTRIF. III                0.00      105.00             0.00          19.61       11.63        0.00
BD-PE-9506    IDA20160       1989   GOVT. OF BANGLADESH                 POWER DIST.  (16 TOWN              0.00       87.00             0.00          12.93        9.08        9.45
BD-PE-9467    IDA19300       1988   GOB                                 URBAN DEV. I                       0.00       47.60            16.95           4.86       21.33        4.56
Total                                                                                                      0.00   2,119.65             27.87        994.59       220.16      24.90
Active Loans          Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                1,045.93            4,964.95             6,010.88
of which has been repaid:                    0.00              355.13               355.13
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                2,091.78            4,358.69             6,450.47
Amount sold                                        0.00                   .37                 .37
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                  .37                  .37
Total Undisbursed                :               994.59                 1.56              996.15
a. Intended disbursements to date m'i,us actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Anne: D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Arinual Review of Portfolio performarce (ARPP),
a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements
in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Bangladesh
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-May-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                          IFC
FY Approval          Company         Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic  Loan  Equit  Quasi          Partic
y                            y
1980                IPDC                  0.00   1.05   0.00   0.00   0.00    1.05   0.00            0.00
1985/95             IDLC                  0.00    .15   0.00   0.00   0.00    .15   0.00             0.00
1991                Dynamic Textile       1.87   0.00   0.00    1.50   1.87   0.00   0.00            1.50
1996                ICT-B                15.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00             0.00
1996                ICT-W                0.00    .38   0.00   0.00   0.00    .01   0.00              0.00
1997                DBH                  0.00    .65   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00              0.00
Total Portfolio:               16.87   2.23   0.00    1.50   1.87   1.21   0.00             1.50
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equnit  Quasi Partic
1997                BLCL                 3.50    .46   0.00   3.50
1997                DBH                  2.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
1997                JALALABAD             0.00   15.00   0.00   0.00
1998                KHULNA               22.50   3.30   0.00  29.40
1997                SCANCEM              11.00   1.25   0.00   0.00
1997                WATERGARDEN           6.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      45.50  20.01    0.00  32.90



Annex 10
Bangladesh at a glance                                                                   1S9198
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              South    Low-
Bangladesh       Asia  Income       Development diamond
Populabon mid-1996 (millions;                         121.7      1,264    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                               260       380      500                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                                31.2       481    1.601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          1.6        1.9      1.7     GNP                              Gross
Labor force f%)                                         2.1       2.1       1.7       P                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty headcount index (% ofpopulation)                 48                                           V
Urban population (% of total populatbon)                 19        26       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         58        61       63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)               77         75       69                 Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              67
Access to safe water (% of population)                   79        63       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     62        50       34             -Bangladesh
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoof-age population)   92         98      105
Male                                                  98        110      112                 Low-income group
Female                                                86         87       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM T5tENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
GDP (billions US$)                            14.3     15.7      29.1      31.8      Economic ratios'
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                   6.1     12.9      16.6      17.0              O
Exports of goods and services/GDP              2.9      7.4      14.2      14.2              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     0.9      2.0       8.3       7.2
Gross national savings/GDP                     4.9      9.6       13.1     12.0
Current account balance/GDP                   -4.3     -3.9      -3.5      -5.1
Interest payments/GDP                          0.1      0.6       0.6       0.6     Savings             .        Investment
Total debt/GDP                                13.0     43.9      56.0      50.5
Total debt servicelexports                    23.4     22.4       14.6     11.7
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..      31.4
Present value of debtlexports                   ..       ..    166.7                             Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-95     1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                 -     Bangladesh
GDP                                  5.0       4.2      4.4       5.4       6.0
GNP per capita                        2.4      2.4      2.8        3.8      7.3               Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         6.0     15.0     34.2       10.6      7.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                          Growth rates of output and Investment I%)
Agriculture                                   62.0     41.8       30.9     30.0     30
Industry                                      11.6     16.0       17.6     17.7     20.
Manufacturing                                7.0      9.9        9.6      9.6       D-
Services                                      26.4     42.3       51.5     52.4        0
Privateconsumption                            959      90.6       77.9     79.1    Ir             92   93   94   95 96
General govemment consumption                  3.2      7.3       13.7     13.6                    GGDl   ---GDP
Imports of goods and services                  8.1     18.3      22.5      23.9
1975.85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and irmports 1%)
Agriculture                                    3.5      1.9       -1.0      3.7     so
Industry                                       4.7      6.5       8 4       5.3
Manufacturing                                2.9      59         8.6      5.3      25
Services                                       6.8      5.2        6.9      6.5
Private consumption                                     0.8 1.5             5.8      0.   .
General govemment consumption                   ..      4.8        5.3      6.5                         93           s     96
Gross domestic investment                      8.4      8.0      23.4      10.9     2S
Imports of goods and services                  7.9      7.0      37.7      16.9                   Expons
Gross national product                         4.9      4.3        4.4      5-5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures In Italics are for years other than those specied.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Bangladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995     1996                                           -
Domestic prices                                                                       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           so
Consumer prices                                21.9     10.9        5.2      4.0
Implicit GDP deflator                                   11.1        P 7      5.6    25
Govemment finance
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                          8.5       12.1     11.5             91    92    93    94    95    99
Current budget balance                                   1.3        3.3      2.9               -     GDPdef.  ----CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -9.1       -6.8     -5.8
TRADE
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                      940      3,473    3,882
Leather                                                 70        202      213      7,500
Frozen food                                             87        299      315 
Jute goods                                             358        319      330       soooD
Garments                                       ..      116      1,980    2,548
Total imports (cif)                               .    2,647      5,834    6,881
Food                                           ..      607        499      570      25500 rI
Fuel and energy                                ..      359        209      274
Capital goods                                   ..     691      1,480     1,918          ________________
Export price index (1987=100)                    ..       74       188       194            90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                            104       127       131                   ]Exports    MImports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        ..       71        146      148
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP ratio 1%)
Exports of goods and services                  427    1,162       4,130    4,508
Imports of goods and services                 1,459    2,864      6,545    7,614      o
Resource balance                             -1,033   -1,702     -2,415   -3,106          0                     9 L
-2-
Net income                                      -6       -90       -41        -6
Net current transfers                          417    1,178       1,426    1,475
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers           -621      -613     -1,030   -1,637      ai
Financing items (net)                          666      536       1,304      575
Changes in net reserves                        -45        77      -274    1,062      - 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)              ..      356      3,519    3,790
Conversion rate (localUUS$)                     8.9     26.0       40.2     40.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          1,860    6,870     16,296   16,083
IBRD                                          55        55        55        47                    F  G  A
IDA                                          295    2,021       5,838    5,713                   220 1e4 47
Total debt service                              105      355        802      693
IBRD                                           0         3         8         8                 /5713
IDA                                            2        22        83        92             E/V
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              315       472       890       619    1\\ 
Official creditors                           576       563       218       805                             .  /
Private creditors                             -3        -3        -96       47                                 C
Foreign direct investment                      0         0          2             |                           517
Portfolio equity                               0         0        67        30                   D409
World Bank program
Commitments                                  205       398       356       168      A- tBRD                      E- Bitaerat
Disbursements                                 91       288        197      279      B-IDA     D-Other,multilateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                           0         6        46        54      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     91       282       151       225
Interest payments                              1        20        46        45
Net transfers                                 90       262       105       180
Development Economics                                                                                                    1/9198



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29771
-   j)';      -       ,. ~8190                          900                              91,                              92-                  _
890                             9                                9. ---.BANGLADESH
DHAKA URBAN
!   ( rv  5''-- )t -   ot                                                             TRANSPORT PROJECT
26'/ Thaurgo           I_                                                                                                                              260-
,$ lCiiNlAJPUR             J                                                                           pAmonirh/t \* /St P ROJECT  AREA
rk~~~~~~~                                   K o n; Sram(
21  -9   \s$D inAjPur I i t   '  '- DRangpur
pDin _1u \,  S  .            |         :                                               l0    25     50   75 Kilometers
f tH  \' +         t':   t      ~      -.   !                                        r0         25           SOMiles
/  k  ~~~~"" ~       Gailbandho
25 /       }      >          t    <      _          JK            @ -2   -'    ,,_,-                     Z _   a,rF-" L,
r RAJS AHI   No                             t\;ogaon   BOG  malpur    Netro
2AJSAH  I                                   I  IA 4
y          Jenic h              ~  \                                          CoBogrm    -        .H;
I~~~~Ntr   \                           I n 
0    ttto         <ATAN A                          Ha6i  j           Bo . X
230~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c-
This sap wos prdsdcedhy  Cnl   3cthr                       5Jaua_-__t    %                        %    0    z      \                     agmt 
-2AMd' nsignUsis s.         * -                                J          *        BoI .K                                          I N  D I A         24-
calsrs, slesmisstians an
any other n orrlontrrshown                                                                 .\
sethisnon donotiospfy, on  ,'era   0 --                                  Zt         ^          j   
Group, any jud gseot on the  1/ .  .IHLAJ                         .         auahl  S.I\t  
legalstatus a! any terrley...-  :Cithgno                           / 
or any endorsemssent ar   C:sittakn'o . -Ila
acpneof such           \  s     'r                           .   A    KHALI  J/                                            _       'B Badrban\ I
houndarises.1-                                               -    ogua                          f              
=s       ;                   zI>                               i                                                    !
IL
Ir? 4\. >    =    (   - j        CHflAGONG   Li                 ooT
Saria -._   -pur0         DISTRICT CAPITAtS                     HiBANDARABA
'x1f,-J  ,' -- .,   '.  f                                     O~~~~~~~~ DIVISION CAPITALS                     \             N
'..s BANLADESH~                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                           \
o><              -N    NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                                         Cox'sBoazr8 0     @      ~     s
>     .  >.  t l/ 0r. ?   \^ t  .                                                            OTHER PROJECTS                         \) R
I!>' N  D   . 'M.'''I A..... N'ral                                   ripur    -REGIONALHIGHWAYS
23i                                                                              I         s  2-  RIVERS23-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -+ r -.     REGION BOUNDARIES\ 
.        *    - -   DIVISION BOUNDARIES                               ;
. _  . - .                            gpr~~~~~~~90          -   - -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARtES             920     
_                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBER 1998



IBRD 29772
To     Kaliakoir                    / TO Mymnensingh                        BNLDS
Bridge                                   ~~~~DHAKA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
DHAKA METROPOLITAN
AREA (DMA)
0         ~~~5           1 0
Kashimpur
Baaaa rTONG!                         -    -5
NORHER  /NG                                      PBYPASSESa
Bazar
y            i N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ki 
SPZ: 14.5 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    NVEBE 19



BANGLADESH
S  I     ~~2     3      A 
DHAKA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                     _ o___2_3_4_ S
MAIN PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                               KILOMETERS
k TMyooensmght    
f--j     ~ 
N~~NE
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
/                 TONGI           j   TONGI /                              \8A 
U LINK ROAD|             - _ 
1I                               I   S       T.
('~ ~~~~~~~~~U TEMN L MPROEMENT
\ I  0                               Zis InKl\R,      >MANROD
/?          <                   aSONM R
7/9                                                                                   M
feX              ~~~~~~~~~~RVR                             y-  -.. 
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.I\.\
_ / RPSDMI ODIPOEET 2\ k  
P C      /    r                  NESCINIPRVMNS7                       > \{    ,t 
.)v :;,a-j UTRIAIPOEET 0oo   <
)  .                                                                                                          I   lMI OAS\\.v
tr   \y ^ I   SECONDARY ROADS                  \  oC  XV            Tb4 mop wos produced by the~~~~~~~~~
I .' 0 RAILROADS \av X Theboundories,cofors.denomunorons~~~~
O   \   A   '  \   WARD BOUNDARIES                          \      \       rsd snyoth-,nhz m :s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Im hwo
<<   \  ~~-- DCC BOUNDARI ES                                               The Wodd b=nL Gr up, ony {udgmene  a~
L  l                                                                       such boundones       D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



