Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3163 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Dhaka Urban Transport Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 17, 1999 
CREDIT NUMBER 3163 BD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 17, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Parts A (other than A.8) and C.1 of the Project will be carried out by 
Dhaka City Corporation (hereinafter called DCC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to DCC part of the proceeds 
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and DCC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
Page  2
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DCC" means the Dhaka City Corporation established and operating under 
the DCC Ordinance;
(b)
"DCC Ordinance" means the Dhaka City Corporation Ordinance, 1983 (XL, of 
1983) of the Borrower, as amended from time to time to the date of this Agreement;
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and DCC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(d)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and DCC pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
(e)
"RHD" means the Roads and Highways Department within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Communications;
(f)
"BRTA" means the Bangladesh Road Transport Authority within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Communications;
(g)
"RAJUK" means the Rajdhani Unnayan Kartipakha (Capital City Development 
Authority) within the Ministry of Housing and Public Works of the Borrower;
(h)
"DOE" means the Department of Environment within the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Environment and Forest;
(i)
"GDTPCB" means the Greater Dhaka Transport Planning and Coordination 
Board established under Government Order No. Development 2/DUTP-9/97 (Part-2) 374, 
dated September 17, 1998, issued by the Ministry of Communications of the Borrower; 
(j)
"Other Implementing Agencies" means GDTPCB, RHD, BRTA, RAJUK and DOE, 
collectively;
(k)
"DMA" means the Dhaka Metropolitan Area as defined in the Dhaka 
Metropolitan Development Plan (1995-2015) by RAJUK;
(l)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established under 
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 127 of 1972) as amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(m)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; and
(n)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the Plan dated October 1998, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the resettlement and rehabilitation of project 
affected people. 
ARTICLE II 
Page  3
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-nine million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 129,300,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two special deposit accounts in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2009 and ending November 1, 2038. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on  November 1, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
Page  4
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A.8, B and C.2 of the Project through the Other Implementing Agencies with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause DCC to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all of the obligations of DCC 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable DCC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out its part of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(d)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to 
DCC under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
DCC, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association 
which shall include adequate Project management arrangements and procedures. 
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A (other 
than Part A.8) and C.1 of the Project shall be carried out by DCC pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, 
including the Implementing Agencies.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Page  5
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
Page  6
(a)
DCC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that DCC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(c)
The DCC Ordinance shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of DCC to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of DCC or GDTPCB or for the 
suspension of its respective operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.    
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:   
(a)
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and DCC; and 
(b)
that the Association has received evidence that the Borrower has 
established Project management procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by DCC, 
and is legally binding upon DCC in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and DCC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and DCC in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary/Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary/Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant 
Secretary/Assistant Secretary/Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of 
the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Page  7
Ministry of Finance
Government of People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address: 
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A. K. M. Masihur Rahman 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Frederick T. Temple 
Country Director, Bangladesh
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
(a)  for DCC
  64,680,000
75%
(b)  for the Other
  23,080,000 
75%
     Implementing
            Agencies
(2)
Equipment and 
materials
(a)  for DCC               2,420,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
Page  8
(ex-factory cost) 
and 80% of local
expenditures for 
other items 
procured locally
(b)  for the Other
   2,930,000
100% of foreign
     Implementing 
expenditures,
     Agencies
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally 
(3)
Incremental salaries
and operating costs
(a)  for DCC
     810,000
90% through 
July 1, 2001; and
60% thereafter
(b)  for the Other
     810,000
90% through
     Implementing Agencies
July 1, 2001; and
60% thereafter
(4)
Consultants’ ser-     
  20,960,000
100%
vices, training, 
studies,
study tours, 
participatory 
activities and 
audit services
(5)
Resettlement Costs
(a)  for DCC
     450,000
90%
       (b)  for the Other
     520,000
90%
     Implementing 
     Agencies
(6)
Unallocated
  12,640,000
TOTAL                    129,300,000                 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "incremental salaries and operating costs" means the cost of 
additional personnel contracted exclusively for purposes of the Project, and the cost 
of operation and maintenance of offices, vehicles and equipment procured for purposes 
of the Project; 
(d)
the term "participatory activities" means stakeholders meetings/surveys, 
awareness campaigns on traffic rules and safety, monitoring studies, project launching 
and the use of NGOs to facilitate such activities; and
(e)
the term "resettlement costs" means the following costs incurred in the 
carrying out of Part C of the Project: community benefits, training, surveys, studies 
and institutional costs, including the use of NGOs.  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 4,380,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
Page  9
date but after March 1, 1998. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (a) for goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) for consultants’ services 
under contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000, in the case of firms, and 
$50,000 in the case of individuals; (c) for all other activities under Category 4; and 
(d) under Categories 3 and 5, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to improve urban transport infrastructure and 
services and address long term transport planning, coordination and institutional 
issues in DMA.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Infrastructure Development 
1.
Traffic management including improvement of about 30 intersections and adjacent 
roads, traffic flow improvements, parking facilities and provision of areas where 
access to motorized vehicles will be restricted. 
2.
Arterial road improvements including about 60 kms of road rehabilitation of 
existing priority roads and improvement of Tongi Link Road. 
3.
Bus route improvements including improvements to bus lanes, bus stops and other 
spot improvements. 
4.
Rehabilitation of three (3) existing bus terminals, including the adjacent roads 
thereto. 
5.
Pedestrian facilities improvements including construction of footbridges and 
improvement/construction of sidewalks. 
6.
Non-motorized transport network improvements including construction of secondary 
road links and underpasses. 
7.
Flood damage rehabilitation of roads and drainage. 
8.
Construction of grade separated interchanges at Jatrabari and Mahakhali.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance 
1.
Institutional support including strengthening of traffic management, project 
supervision and management, financial management, environmental management, 
performance monitoring and enforcement capacity of DCC and the Other Implementing 
Agencies through the provision of training, consultants’ services and equipment.
2.
Carrying out of policy support studies, including the preparation of long-term 
transport strategic plan in DMA and a feasibility study for Dhaka Ring Road, and 
detailed engineering design and other preparation work for a follow-up project.
Part C:
Resettlement Action Plan
Carrying out a program of land acquisition and resettlement of project affected 
people for purposes of:
1.
Part A of the Project (other than A.8); and
2.
Part A.8 of the Project. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Page  10
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
1. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$3,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International or National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  11
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the Resettlement Action Plan shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for training, participatory and resettlement activities, and studies 
which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Use of Non-Governmental Organizations
Services for training, participatory activities, studies and parts of the 
Resettlement Action Plan which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent may, with the 
Page  12
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.14 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall timely implement an Action Plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of the Project. 
2.
The Borrower shall adequately staff by July 1, 1999, and thereafter maintain and 
operate in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the GDTPCB, the inter-agency unit 
responsible for overall transport planning and coordination for DMA.
3.
The Borrower shall promptly: (a) establish and maintain until completion of the 
Project: (i) a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Communications 
under the GDTPCB for overall project oversight and coordination; (ii) a separate 
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in RHD, for implementation of its part; and (b) 
appoint Project Coordinators in the Other Implementing Agencies.
4.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, the following 
committees with powers, functions and composition satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
a Project Coordination Committee, headed by the Executive Director of 
GDTPCB, to be established by March 31, 1999;
(b)
a Public Consultation Committee, headed by the DCC Mayor; and
(c)
a Secretaries Committee, headed by the Secretary, MOC. 
Page  13
5.
Without any limitation to the generality of Section 3.01 (a) and (b) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide its counterpart funds through two separate 
Project accounts, one for the parts of the Project to be carried out by DCC and the 
other for the parts of the Project to be carried out by the Other Implementing 
Agencies, to be established by the Borrower and replenished quarterly based on 
expected Project expenditures.
6.
The Borrower shall establish by July 1, 1999, and thereafter maintain and 
operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, inter 
alia, annual funding levels from the Borrower and DCC and involvement of the private 
sector in the supervision and audit thereof, a Road and Traffic Maintenance Fund for 
DMA for periodic and routine maintenance of DMA road infrastructure network.
7.
The Borrower shall by the following dates or such other dates as may be agreed 
with the Association:
(a)
by July 1, 1999, discontinue registration in Dhaka of additional 
two-stroke engine three-wheelers;
(b)
by July 1, 2001, ban importation into Bangladesh of two-stroke engine 
three-wheelers and their engines, as well as reconditioned buses;
(c)
by January 1, 2003, phase out from Dhaka all existing two-stroke engine 
three-wheelers; and
(d)
(i) by June 30, 2000, develop vehicle-specific emission standards for all 
types of imported and locally assembled motor vehicles and a phased program, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the implementation thereof, and (ii) thereafter 
carry out such program. 
8.
The Borrower shall timely carry out a traffic diversion plan, satisfactory to 
the Association, coordinated with a staged construction process under the Project. 
9.
The Borrower shall timely carry out a Road Safety Action Plan satisfactory to 
the Association. 
10.
The Borrower shall timely carry out the Resettlement Action Plan, and coordinate 
resettlement activities with other Project components to ensure that the provisions in 
the Resettlement Action Plan in respect of any work site have been carried out before 
commencing civil works on such site.
11.
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
have two performance audits of the Project conducted by an independent 
firm under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, one by March 31, 2001 
and the other by March 31, 2003, or such later dates as the Association may otherwise 
agree; and  
(b)
furnish to the Association the report of each audit one month upon the 
completion thereof.  
12.
Before undertaking any new transport infrastructure investment in DMA exceeding 
the equivalent of $5,000,000 the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association 
and furnish to the Association the review by GDTPCB of such proposed investment, 
showing that said investment does not adversely affect the Project. 
13.
The Borrower shall allow private sector bus operators to enter freely into the 
DMA bus operators’ market, provided they meet adequate safety and quality standards, 
and shall take all action necessary to ensure free and fair competition among all bus 
operators, including keeping the fare structure for premium bus operators deregulated.
14.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31, 2001, carry out a review of the growth, performance and 
quality of transport services in DMA provided by buses and other transport modes, as 
well as the fare structure and adequacy in meeting the needs of the urban poor and 
women commuters;
(b)
promptly thereafter furnish to the Association the finding of such review 
and recommendations for any changes on regulations and policies regarding buses and 
other modes of transport; and
Page  14
(c)
timely carry out such recommendations as the Borrower and the Association 
shall have agreed upon. 
15.
The Borrower shall carry out in a timely manner the actions to be agreed with 
the Association pursuant to the findings and recommendations of the study of road user 
charges carried out under paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit 
Agreement 2638-BD (Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project) between the 
Borrower and the Association, dated June 29, 1994.
16.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of its part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of its part of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its part of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (a) and 
5 (a), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in 
respect of the DCC Special Account and Categories  1 (b), 2 (b), 3 (b), (4) and 5 (b) 
set forth in said table in respect of the Other Implementing Agencies Special Account;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
in respect of the DCC Special Account and an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 in 
respect of the Other Implementing Agencies Special Account to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 in 
respect of the DCC Special Account and an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 in respect 
of the Other Implementing Agencies Special Account until (i) in respect of the DCC 
Special Account the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated 
to Categories  1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (a) and 5 (a) plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Parts A (other than A.8) and C of the Project shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 24,000,000, and (ii) in respect of the Other 
Implementing Agencies Special Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account allocated to Categories 1 (b), 2 (b), 3 (b), 4 and 5 (b) plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A.7 and Part B of the Project shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 12,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Page  15
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to expenditures to be financed thereunder, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
Page  16
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
