                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 34544-BD

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-31630)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$177 MILLION

                                  TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

                                             BANGLADESH

                             FOR DHAKA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT




                                           December 01, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2005)

                         Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
                                Tk.1.00 = US$ 0.0153
                             US$ 1.00 = Tk.65.480

                               FISCAL YEAR
                             July 01    June 30

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AQMP     Air Quality Management Project
BRTA     Bangladesh Road Transport Authority
BUET     Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CNG      Compressed Natural Gas
DCC      Dhaka City Corporation
DITS     Dhaka Integrated Transport Study
DMA      Dhaka Metropolitan Area
DMP      Dhaka Metropolitan Police
DPL      Development Policy Lending
DSM      Design, Supervision and Monitoring
DTCB     Dhaka Transport Coordination Board
DUTP     Dhaka Urban Transport Study
ED       Executive Director
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FIDIC    Federation Internationale des Ingenieurs-Conseils
         (International Federation of Consulting Engineers)
GDTPCB   Dhaka Transport Planning and Coordination Board
GIS      Geographic Information System
GOB      Government of Bangladesh
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
MMG      Maintenance Management Group
MOC      Ministry of Communications
MOLGRD&C Ministry of Local Government and Regional Development and Communities
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NMT      Non-Motorized Traffic/Transport
OD       Operational Directives
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAP      Project Affected People
PCG      Public Consultative Group
PCP      Project Concept Paper
PD       Project Director
PDO      Project Development Objectives

PIU        Project Implementation Unit
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
QEA        Quality-at-Entry Assessment
RAJUK      Rajadhani Unnayan Karthpakhya (Capital City Development Authority)
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
RHD        Roads and Highways Division, MOC
RMMS       Road Maintenance Management System
RRMP-III   The Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
RTMF       Road and Traffic Maintenance Fund
SOP        Standard Operating Procedures
STP        Strategic Transport Study
STU        Shock Transmission Unit
TA         Technical Assistance
TED        Traffic Engineering Department, DCC
TEG        Traffic Engineering Group, DCC
TSC        Traffic Signal Cell, DCC

                         Vice President:   Praful C. Patel
                       Country Director    Christine Wallich
                        Sector Manager     Guang Z. Chen
                     Task Team Leader:     Navaid A. Qureshi

                                       BANGLADESH
                                   Dhaka Urban Transport


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             44
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            46

Project ID: P009524                                                  Project Name: Dhaka Urban Transport
Team Leader: Navaid A. Qureshi                                       TL Unit: TUDTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 1, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Dhaka Urban Transport                                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-31630
   Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                                         Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (75%); Sub-national government
                            administration (13%); Central government administration (11%);
                            Other social services (1%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Municipal governance and institution
                            building (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/13/1996                                     Effective: 05/18/1999                06/16/1999
     Appraisal: 06/24/1998                                         MTR: 02/05/2002                  02/05/2002
      Approval: 01/19/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOB/MIN. OF COMMUNICATIONS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Christine Wallich                              Frederick Temple
Sector Manager:                 Guang Chen                                     Frannie Humplick
Team Leader at ICR:             Navaid Qureshi                                 Thampil Pankaj
ICR Primary Author:             Mitsuyoshi Asada


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    Context: Urban population growth in Bangladesh in recent decades has been phenomenal, and has
far outstripped the capacity of urban infrastructure, leading to low level of efficiency and massive
shortages. The urban hierarchy of Bangladesh has been strongly dominated by metropolitan Dhaka, the
largest and most industrialized city.      The transport environment in Dhaka was in chaotic condition
characterized by chronic traffic congestion and delays, lack of traffic management, conflict of jurisdictions
and poor coordination among agencies, and increasing air pollution problems. In light of this situation, the
Dhaka Integrated Transport Study (DITS; 1994, supported by UNDP Technical Assistance) and
subsequent discussions with the Government have highlighted the elements to constitute an urban transport
strategy for Dhaka, and it has become the basis for the design of Dhaka Urban Transport Project (DUTP)
in 1998.

3.1.2    Project Development Objectives:The project's overall objectives were: (a) To improve urban
transport infrastructure and services in Dhaka Metropolitan Area (DMA) in an economically and
environmentally sustainable manner, and (b) To strengthen institutional and policy framework and address
long-term transport planning and coordination issues in DMA. This project was intended as the first phase
of a program to address the multi-faceted transport problems in DMA spread over the years, and the
project performance should be judged in this context.

3.1.3    Relevance of Project Development Objectives: The project objectives were relevant to the Bank
Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and related sector strategies when the project was appraised.
The strategic priorities of CAS included, among others; institutional development, promoting competitive
private sector as the engine of growth, and promoting better public sector management and improved public
services for private sector and civil society. In addition, the project development objectives (PDOs) remain
relevant to the current CAS Progress Report (dated June 30, 2003) objectives of supporting accelerated
private sector led growth through removing infrastructure constraints.

3.1.4    Clarity of Project Development Objectives: The objectives were clear, realistic and important for
the country and the sector. They were necessarily general to allow flexibility in response to changing
constraints and opportunities. The institutional strengthening was challenging to the borrower in terms of
the difficulty of institutional changes in bureaucracy, and some risk was expected and recognized.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The project development objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    Project Component 1 - Infrastructure Development (US$178.2 million)

(1) Traffic Management Measures and System Improvements: Improvement of junctions throughout
    Dhaka with pavement reconstruction, better channelization, separation of motorized and non-motorized
    traffic (NMT), diversion of rickshaws at certain key junctions, protected right turn lanes, improved
    traffic control using modern traffic signal equipment or roundabouts, measures to reduce risks of
    pedestrians, increase traffic capacity and where appropriate implement special measures to help buses
    avoid traffic congestion.
(2) Road Improvements: Rehabilitation and improvement of existing roads.
(3) Bus Lanes and Lay-bys: Provision of bus lanes along selected bus routes that have been identified as a
    priority.
(4) Rehabilitation of Existing Bus Terminals: Rehabilitation of three (3) existing inter-district bus



                                                      - 2 -

    terminals at Saidabad, Mohakhali and Gabtoli, including sidewalks, parking area reconstruction,
    covered sidewalks, toilets and passenger waiting arrangements.
(5) Pedestrian Facilities Improvements: Rehabilitation of existing sidewalks, construction of about 40 km
    of new sidewalks along existing major arterial roads, construction of about ten pedestrian bridges.
(6) NMT Network Improvements: Improvement of facilities for parking and traffic for NMT on secondary
    and local roads. Alternative routes provision on secondary and local roads to reduce NMT use on main
    arteries.  Provision of additional road links and three (3) underpasses to facilitate a pilot NMT
    network. Separation of rickshaws from motor vehicles by suitable barriers on some routes.
(7) Grade-separated Interchange Facilities: Construction of two (2) overpasses at Jatrabari and
    Mohakhali intersections.
(8) Flood Damage Rehabilitation of Roads and Drainage: Rehabilitation of about 200 km of existing
    roads and associated drainage damaged during the 1998 floods.

3.3.2    Project Component 2 - Equipment Support (US$10.9 million). Equipment and Vehicles:
Provision of necessary equipment, computers and accessories, and vehicles to strengthen technical and
institutional capacity of project agencies; Dhaka City Corporation (DCC), Dhaka Metropolitan Police
(DMP) and Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA).

3.3.3    Project Component 3 - Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (US$24.9 million)

(1) Project Preparation & Implementation Support, including Design, Supervision & Monitoring:
    Provision of consultancy services for preparation, implementation, supervision and monitoring of
    various components under the project.
(2) Financial Management Services: Establishment of financial and technical capacities for Greater
    Dhaka Transport Planning and Coordination Board (GDTPCB) (later officially named as Dhaka
    Transport Coordination Board (DTCB)), and strengthening of the same for DCC and Roads &
    Highways Division (RHD).
(3) Institutional Development & Training: Support for institutional capacity building and training for
    DTCB, DCC, RAJUK (Rajadhani Unnayan Karthpakhya; Capital City Development Authority), DMP
    and BRTA.

3.3.4    Project Component 4 - Policy Support and Future Studies (US$9.5 million)

(1) Preparation of Long-term Transport Strategic Plan: Preparation of a long-term (20 year) Strategic
    Transport Plan for DMA.
(2) Feasibility Study for Follow-up Project: Identification and detailing of the scope of a follow-up project
    consistent with the long-term strategic transport plan.
(3) Feasibility Study for Dhaka Ring Road: Support feasibility study for the Western segment (from
    Tongi to Mirpur to Buriganga Bridge 1 onto Demra) of the Ring Road.

3.3.5    Project Component 5 - Land Acquisition and Resettlement (US$10.7 million). Finance for
resettlement and land acquisition at sites of new flyovers, road, intersections and sidewalk improvements in
accordance with a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) prepared in accordance with OD4.30 and other IDA
guidelines.

3.3.6    Associated Component - Phase out of Two-stroke Engine Three-wheelers with Dhaka Air
Quality Management Project (AQMP). DUTP was expected to improve the air quality in Dhaka by
reducing vehicular emissions through enforcement of different measures, and some of these measures were
included as legal covenants. The air quality related works in the project were pursued in coordination with
another IDA financed project, Dhaka Air Quality Management Project (AQMP). The agreement related to
this issue reached with GOB and DCC during the DUTP project negotiation was as follows:

(1) Discontinue registration of additional two-stroke engine three-wheelers in Dhaka after July 1, 1999;


                                                     - 3 -

(2) Phase out from Dhaka all existing two-stroke engine three wheelers by January 1, 2003;
(3) Discontinue importation of two-stroke engine three-wheelers and their engines, and reconditioned
    buses, into Bangladesh by July 2001; and
(4) Develop vehicle-specific emission standards for all types of imported and locally assembled motor
    vehicles by June 30, 2000.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    The project's failure to show satisfactory progress in implementation and achievement of
development impact at the early stage of the project has led to a project restructuring at the Mid-term
Review (MTR) in February 2002. The IDA supervision team and DTCB reassessed the original scope of
the project on the basis of (i) contribution to the PDOs; and (ii) probability of implementation within the
remaining project period. The revised implementation arrangements included the change in implementing
agency and reduction in the scope of works that were not expected to be completed within the remaining
project period (including reasonable extension). Due to the weak implementation performance of DCC, the
responsibility for implementing the remaining ICB works originally included in the DCC portfolio was
shifted to RHD. The major components dropped from the restructured project by not satisfying these
criteria included: Jatrabari Flyover (W) C13; NMT Underpasses (W) C6; BRTA Emission Lab (W) C14
and (G) AE1; and Equipment for DOE (DOE-1). The restructured project components had an estimated
project cost of US$140.3 million (against US$234.2 million at PAD), with IDA assistance of US$107.5
million (against US$177.0 million at PAD). Although Jatrabari Flyover was dropped from the project due
to redesign related delays, it was picked up by the GOB as a BOT project, and it is understood that
negotiations to develop this facility are underway with a foreign investor.

3.4.2    The scattered road improvements, junction channelization measures and traffic signalization
originally included as part of project design, were consolidated and repackaged into integrated arterial
corridor improvement contracts at MTR. TA and studies for institutional strengthening were added at
MTR to (i) build maintenance management capacity for the DCC network; (ii) develop Road and Traffic
Maintenance Fund (RTMF) financial rules and standard operating procedures; and (iii) identify constraints
and propose improved policy and regulatory framework for bus operations in DMA, including a pilot
corridor for bus route franchising.       In terms of key policy/institutional support, IDA's post MTR
supervision mission efforts have focused on (i) improved maintenance management and financing
arrangements for DCC arterial road network by making RTMF operational, and (ii) improved traffic flows
along selected arterial corridors with separation of fast and slow moving traffic.

3.4.3    The revised scope accounted for 60% of the original project scope. The original project costs and
MTR restructured costs are summarized in the following table:

                                      DUTP Original vs. Revised Costs

        Components                    Original Cost in PAD                   Revised Costs in MTR
                                GOB           IDA          TOTAL        GOB          IDA        TOTAL
  Civil Works                       44.6        133.6         178.2         24.2        72.5        96.6
  Equipment                          2.8          8.1           10.9         0.5         5.0          5.5
  Technical Assistance               0.4         34.0           34.4         0.2        18.8        19.0
  Land Acq. & Resett.                9.4          1.3           10.7         4.7         0.6          5.4
        Contingency                                                          3.1        10.6        13.8
    Total Project Cost              57.2        177.0         234.2         32.8       107.5       140.3




                                                      - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1    No formal Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) was carried out by QAG. The ICR rates quality at
entry as moderately unsatisfactory, as there were significant shortcomings in identification, preparation
and appraisal for the following reasons:

(1) Complex project design: The project was highly complex by involving many different ministries and
    implementing agencies, and by having too many components. It was undoubtedly oversized for IDA's
    first urban transport operation in Bangladesh. This project was a classic example of a "Christmas Tree
    Project". The support for public transport service improvements was inadequate in the project design.

(2) Poor Institutional Arrangements: In the original project design, 70% of the project works was
    assigned to Dhaka City Corporation (DCC), an agency with very limited institutional and financial
    capacity.     The implementation arrangement was ineffective by giving lead implementation
    responsibility to newly created Dhaka Transport Coordination Board (DTCB) without the authority
    needed for coordination, and by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of DCC created outside the
    mainstream. Institutional strengthening measures were not well thought out. The complex project
    design has promoted the ambiguous responsibilities among the implementing agencies.

(3) Weak borrower ownership & commitment: The weak ownership and commitments were later reflected
    in poor implementation record, non-addressing weak leadership in DTCB all through the project
    period, but these were not recognized at entry. There could be two possible reasons for this: (1) the
    task team and the Country Management Unit (CMU) were too ambitious for this first urban transport
    project to ignore signals for the later events; or (2) they were led to believe that there was strong
    ownership. In either case it implies that the analysis of project risks and formulation of risk mitigation
    measures at entry were insufficient.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    Summary: The achievement of the project development objectives is moderately satisfactory, as
there were moderate shortcomings in the operation's achievement of its objectives and in its efficiency. One
of the two development objectives (to improve urban transport infrastructure and services in the Dhaka
Metropolitan Area (DMA) in an economically and environmentally sustainable manner) has been broadly
achieved. The project's physical investments have helped improve urban transport infrastructure in DMA,
but it was not as much as originally intended due to the MTR scope reduction and final quality of the
infrastructure. At the institutional side (to strengthen institutional and policy framework and address
long-term transport planning and coordination issues in DMA), the project has achieved institutional
strengthening in various agencies involved. However, it had only a modest impact on the strengthening of
Dhaka Transport Coordination Board (DTCB), which was expected to be a core agency proposed by the
project to act as an inter-agency unit for overall transport planning and coordination for DMA to fill a
major gap in the institutional framework for urban transport.

4.1.2    The project performance indicators were revised at MTR to better reflect the performance, even
though the PDOs were not revised.          The assessment of the PDOs was carried out mainly by
outcome/impact and output indicators revised at MTR as shown in Annex 1, and referred to in the initial
indicators given in the PAD (Annex 1) whenever possible. However, the initial indicators were broad, and
baseline data were not provided for most of the indicators, nor measured through the project period.
Hence, the reference to the initial indicators was limited. Also, the overall good performance of the
indicator values does not necessarily represent the entire characteristics of the project. Some assessment,



                                                    - 5 -

therefore, was given from general observation of the project outcomes.

4.1.3    Improve urban transport infrastructure and services in DMA in an economically and
environmentally sustainable manner (achieved).              The project was expected to contribute to an
improvement of urban transport infrastructure and services by the physical works components implemented
by the project. The latest values of the performance indicators suggest that this PDO has been broadly
achieved. The corridor improvements, intersection improvements, rehabilitated three inter-district bus
terminals, grade separation of Mohakhali Flyover and pedestrian facilities improvements have all
contributed to the better urban transport infrastructure and its service level. Among all, one of the largest
improvements provided by the project is the signalization of the 68 intersections, which was the first major
effort to create signalized intersections all over the city. However, assessment of the site has revealed that
the influence of the physical improvement could have been much higher if the quality of design and
construction had been better.

4.1.4    Overall values of outcome/impact indicators and output indicators show a good achievement in this
PDO. The estimated Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for physical components at completion (29.1 %
overall; 17.0 % for Mohakhali Flyover; 23.9 % for Intersection Improvements; 34.4 % for Inter-district
Bus Terminal; 39.7 % for Integrated Corridor Development; 26.6 % for Flood Damage Rehabilitation)
shows a satisfactory level, and support the intended economic benefits at appraisal. The overall traffic
speed in Dhaka has increased from 15 kph to 22 kph only, against the targeted value at MTR (25 kph), and
the initial target value (30 kph). This is because the estimated final value was based on the STP model
which took overall (average) value of entire DMA, whereas the target was set for the project corridors.
The capacity of model corridor intersections has increased by 20 % and travel time has reduced by 75 %
for a total day, which was much higher than the initial target value (reduced by 50 %). In terms of
improvement in public transport services, both the indicator values on the demonstration corridor and
overall average at inner/outer cordon lines all show that large bus and mini-bus volumes have increased
during the project period, which are all far more than the target value at MTR (increased by at least 15 %).

4.1.5    The traffic safety records also show a satisfactory improvement.         The total accidents have
decreased by 85 % and fatal accidents have decreased by 33 % on the NMT-free corridor during the three
months of the NMT-free conversion. Accidents in DMA overall have also decreased by 50 %; these are all
above the targeted value at MTR (reduction by at least 10 %). The motor vehicle pollution has also
reduced to the satisfactory level; (a) Lead reduced by 65 % since the introduction of unleaded gas in 1998,
(b) PM10 reduced by 30 % after the withdrawal of 2-stroke 3-wheelers in January 2003, (c) Hydrocarbon
(HC) reduced by 20 %, which are all more than the target value at MTR: (a) Lead by 60-80 %, (b) PM10
by 20-35 %, (c) HC by 20-45 %.

4.1.6    However, some of the intended improvements had to be cancelled at MTR restructuring, among
which the largest component was Jatrabari Flyover. Also, the public transport services improvements are
an indirect influence of the physical improvements of the project, but it was not directly improved by the
project components since there was no explicit public transport enhancement measures in the project.

4.1.7    Strengthen institutional and policy framework and address long-term transport planning and
coordination issues in DMA (partially achieved). The project was expected to strengthen the urban
transport institutional and policy framework by setting up DTCB to act as an inter-agency coordination
body for overall transport planning and coordination for DMA. At the end of the project, the intended
function of DTCB was only partially achieved. This is largely due to the dual authority set up in its Act
that DTCB reports to both DCC and Ministry of Communications (MOC) without an effective mechanism
to reduce conflicts between them, and also the continuous insufficiency of effective leadership in DTCB.


                                                       - 6 -

There remained various structural and staffing constraints in DTCB, which keeps weakening the agency's
effectiveness. These facts all imply a lack of government's commitment to the sustainability of DTCB in its
future role in Dhaka urban transport improvement. This is the most significant factor which assesses that
this PDO has not been fully achieved.

4.1.8    The project has supported tangible strengthening in road maintenance management capacity in
DCC. The output indicator values show that all the intended organizational improvements and training
needs have been achieved. The training has been largely provided for DCC maintenance engineers, DTCB
officials, and policemen in DMP. A basic maintenance management system has been developed based on
functional classification of road; a road inventory and condition survey has been completed; zonal engineers
have been trained, annual maintenance plans adequately funded and gradually putting greater emphasis on
periodic maintenance strategies; a computerized Road and Traffic Maintenance Fund (RTMF) accounting
system has been set up and audited by commercial auditors; and RTMF financial rules and standard
operating procedure has been finally notified by the Ministry of Local Government and Regional
Development and Communities (MOLGRD&C).

4.1.9    The project also involved Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA) for institutional
strengthening framework. The BRTA computerized vehicle registration and driver licensing system has
achieved the benefits of country-wide operation of driver licensing and vehicle registration. Although the
system development contract included vendor support for system operation and maintenance for three
years, the system required adequate number of operators with appropriate training. At the project closing,
required professional IT managers and system analysts were not available in BRTA. BRTA has been
provided with necessary technical support and equipment to enforce vehicle emission standards.

4.1.10 The Strategic Transport Planning (STP) Study has produced an urban transport policy document,
a functioning traffic model and traffic database for DMA, and a 20 year perspective plan for urban
transport investments based on fairly extensive stakeholder consultations. These study results provide a
robust framework for long-term transport planning and coordination in DMA. The STP Study also have
finally appeared to have GOB ownership as the GOB endorsement process is ongoing.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    Project Component 1: Infrastructure Development. This component is rated moderately
satisfactory overall. The physical infrastructure development was successfully completed even though
there were significant delays in the schedule. The level of achievement in outcomes in each sub-component
has variance. The construction quality of the completed works was reasonably good. The finishing details
including the serviceability to the users could have been better if additional attention had been paid to
design adjustment and quality enhancement during construction.               Separation of motorized and
non-motorized traffic (para. 4.2.3) was not explicitly envisioned in the PAD, therefore performance of this
component was not judged on the basis of the degree of success achieved in implementing this policy.

4.2.2    Traffic Management Measures and System Improvements: Good traffic channelization has been
achieved by installing traffic signals at 68 locations throughout the city with a total cost of Tk136 million
(US$2.3 million). These locations were mainly selected to be on the network of motorized traffic oriented
corridors, where traffic discipline and compliance were expected to be higher than in other non-motorized
traffic oriented areas. It was the first major signalization for the entire city area. It created some initial
chaos soon after the first implementation, however, the adjustment of signal timing and channelization was
achieved reasonably quickly, and it began to significantly improve the traffic flows.           A three-year
maintenance arrangement is in place whereby the signal supply and installation contractor will continue to



                                                     - 7 -

provide maintenance. However, the sustainability remains to be a concern since the capacity and capability
of the staff within the Traffic Engineering Division (TED)/DCC has not been sufficient to participate
effectively in the necessary monitoring activities associated with the operation and maintenance of the
traffic signalling system, as they have been relying entirely on the contractor and the DSM Consultant for
technical advice. There is a significant risk that if the signals are not operated and maintained effectively,
they will fall into disrepute and disrepair, as it happened in many other developing cities.

4.2.3    Separation of non-motorized traffic (NMT) was planned in the final agreement for the six agreed
integrated improvement corridors during the MTR. This followed the recommendations by the Committee
for Integrated Corridor Improvement set-up by DTCB, which identified a 120 km arterial network (about
6% of the total road network in Dhaka) for NMT-free operations. Among them, Mirpur Road was adopted
as a Demonstration Corridor for the NMT-free operations. The first withdrawal of NMT (mainly cycle
rickshaws) was conducted between Gabtali and Russel Square in December 2002 (Phase-1). A preliminary
after-project survey indicated significant reductions in travel time along the corridor, and also indicated a
need for parallel complementary NMT routes and crossing points.             It was followed by the second
NMT-free conversion between Russel Square and the New Market in December 2004 (Phase-2) after two
years of interval. The Phase-2 conversion created a social criticism, especially from NGOs, because the
conversion was not associated with complementary increase in public transport services, such as additional
and enhanced bus services, sufficient provision of complementary parallel routes and crossing points for
NMT, social safety net package for rickshaw pullers and vulnerable rickshaw owners, despite IDA's
repeated advice to implement those measures. It was also argued that there was no conclusive proof that
aggregate positive impact for the travelling public outweighed the negative impact of the NMT-free
conversion. As a result, the Mirpur Demonstration Corridor was the only NMT-free conversion piloted
under DUTP.

4.2.4    Corridor Improvements:           Integrated corridor improvements together with intersection
improvements and about 135 km of sidewalks were completed in various contracts. These were; (i)
Intersection Improvements (20 intersections), (ii) Corridor Development (20 intersections and 21 km road
improvement), and (iii) Road Improvement (18 intersections and 46 km road improvement).                   The
completion of these works contributed to the improved traffic flows. However, the consistency and quality
of the works in the corridors and junctions could have been better with more careful quality control in
continuity and width of pedestrian footways, relocation of utility poles, re-levelling of man-hole covers and
road marking. The total cost of this component was Tk3,200 million (US$53 million)

4.2.5    Rehabilitation of Existing Bus Terminals: The rehabilitation of the three existing inter-district bus
terminals at Saidabad, Mohakhali and Gabtoli was completed with a cost of Tk505 million (US$8.4
million), and private operations have been arranged by contracts. The works included terminal area
restoration, parking area reconstruction, covered sidewalks, toilets and passenger waiting arrangements.
The rehabilitation works have finished about one year behind the schedule. There were some complaints
about the design and the quality of the facilities from the operators and the passengers, such as toilet
fittings and tiles, narrow space for ticket counter, poor water supply lines and water leakage. There were
more than 150 small businesses and vendors. Though the design accommodated essential businesses by
providing small shops/kiosks, accommodation for vendors were not kept. DCC should monitor the Private
Operator's performance and ensure sustainability and functionality of the assets.

4.2.6    Pedestrian Facilities Improvements: 40 km of new sidewalks along the existing major arterial
roads and about 135 km of sidewalks under corridor improvements were rehabilitated. This sidewalk
rehabilitation has helped particularly the movement of garment workers who are mostly female. Twelve
foot over bridges were constructed at (1) Farmgate, (2) Azimpur Girls School, (3) Suritola Govt. Primary


                                                       - 8 -

School, (4) Badda Alatunnessa School, (5) New Market, (6) Dhanmondi Boys School, (7) HBFC Uttara,
(8) Kakoli Bus Stand, (9) Wills Little Flower School, (10) Kallyanpur, (11) Asad Gate, and (12)
Kalabagan. These works was completed by May 2005 with a cost of Tk87 million (US$1.4 million).
However, according to an independent survey performed by the Center for Urban Studies, these pedestrian
bridges are not fully used mainly due to the lack of enforcement.

4.2.7     Grade-separated Interchange Facilities: The 4-lane Mohakhali Flyover from the Airport Road
over the railway to the road leading to the Old Airport Road was constructed and put to operation in
November 2004 with a cost of Tk1,167 million (US$15.2 million). However, at the opening of the flyover,
only 50% of the 42 Shock Transmission Units (STUs) were installed, due to delays attributed to the
contractor.   The delayed installation of the remaining 21 STUs and noncompliance of the contract
specifications with the installed STUs were the major problems in the orderly closing of the project. This
STU issue remained unsolved until the project closing date. The STU installation was finally completed by
the end of August 2005, and its certification process has been underway. The progress on this issue is
being pursued by the implementing agencies and DTCB, and will be monitored by IDA for satisfactory
completion. The cancellation of Jatrabari Flyover was a negative factor for the achievement of the intended
traffic flow improvements.

4.2.8     Flood Damage Rehabilitation of Roads and Drainage: The 1998 flood damage restoration works
were completed by October 2003 in two packages, 41.5 km in total length. The final cost was Tk300
million (US$5 million).

4.2.9     Project Component 2: Equipment Support. This component is rated moderately satisfactory.
The equipment included in this component was intended to provide with necessary equipment for urban
transport management to strengthen technical and institutional capacity of the project agencies, which were
DTCB, DCC, RHD, DMP and BRTA. The equipment provided for DMP was aimed at establishing traffic
management teams for NMT-free operations on the identified corridors during the post MTR period.
However, the equipment and vehicles provided were diversified overall, such as computers, software, patrol
vehicles, pickups, towing vehicles, motorcycles, parking clamps and other miscellaneous equipment. It
certainly helped each agency to strengthen its daily technical capacity, but the project design lacked focus
on how consolidatedly those equipment and vehicles would contribute to the PDO of strengthening
institutional and policy framework.

4.2.10 Some important achievements are observed as a system to improve the technical capacity of each
agency. The installation of computerized vehicle registration and driver licensing system (BRTA) and the
delivery of pollution control equipment for measuring roadside vehicular emissions (BRTA) are certainly
strong tools to enhance the agency's capability. DCC started GIS ward mapping for withholding tax using
own resources and completed 38 wards out of 90 municipal wards, and support was given from DUTP to
cover 21 municipal more wards. DCC need to mobilize resources to cover the remaining wards. After
completion a systematic tax collection approach is expected to be in place under DCC. However, a
common issue observed in both cases is the risk of sustainability. Whether these newly established systems
will work as intended in these agencies still remain to be seen in the medium term.

4.2.11 Project Component 3: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building. This component is
rated moderately satisfactory. The intended strengthening of the implementing agencies, particularly
DTCB and DCC was partially achieved by the institutional support in this component. The project design
for project preparation, implementation support including design supervision and monitoring, financial
management, and training programs were standard and superficial, and it was not specifically designed to
address the weak implementation capacity of newly created DTCB and limited institutional and financial


                                                      - 9 -

capacity of DCC. The lack of adequate implementation arrangements was the major cause of project
implementation slippage at the initial half of the project period, which eventually led to the major project
restructuring at MTR. However, one positive result achieved at the end of the project was that the capacity
of Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) to use the transport model (EMME/2)
was strengthened. BUET had a good understanding of the model and will be able to advise DTCB in the
future if the model needs to be run to help in the decision-making process for urban transport investments
in DMA.

4.2.12 Project Component 4: Policy Support and Future Studies. This component is rated moderately
satisfactory. The preparation of long-term Transport Strategic Plan (STP) was conducted by the selected
consultants. However, the procurement of the STP study was largely delayed, and the actual study
activities started in April 2004. The project closing date was then extended until March 2005 for the STP
study to be completed, but the tightened study period associated with lack of timely commitment and
participation of main DMA stakeholders in the process had led to the deterioration of the study results.
Normally this type of study in nature should have at least 18 months for satisfactory study procedures. At
the time of contract, it was intended to be performed within 7 months, which was later extended to one
year. The tight study period caused by delay of procurement process has led to partial analysis, insufficient
quality, comprehensiveness of the study outputs and recommendations, and eventually to inadequacy of
results for appropriate decision-making process and weak ownership in the absence of consultation process.
The STP study had a slippage over the final closing date (June 30, 2005) to build ownership of the study
results through a comprehensive consultation campaign in order to facilitate adoption of the
recommendations and future implementation. It necessitated a separate financing arrangement after the
closing date. The final quality of the study was recovered to satisfactory with close monitoring by the IDA
task team during the later stage of implementation.

4.2.13 Project Component 5: Land Acquisition and Resettlement.                   This component is rated
moderately unsatisfactory. There were three out of six RHD contracts which required land acquisition
and resettlement. Both agencies, RHD and DCC, were extremely slow and inefficient in arranging land
acquisition and utility relocations, which resulted in long delays and in many places the works could not be
completed as designed. However, the completion of construction was finally achieved. Hence, it is rated
moderately unsatisfactory.

4.2.14 Associated Component: Phase out of Two-stroke Engine Three-wheelers with Dhaka Air
Quality Management Project (AQMP). This component is rated moderately satisfactory. The removal
of two-stroke engine three-wheelers from Dhaka by January 1, 2003 was a landmark achievement which
led to a quantum jump improvement in air quality in Dhaka. While this was done to implement a legal
covenant of DUTP, adoption of new standard for ambient air quality, new and in-use vehicle emission
standards were achieved through AQMP. The impact of the action was vividly captured at the Continuous
Air Monitoring Station (CAMS) in Dhaka set up under AQMP. The weekly average before and after the
removal of two-stroke engine three-wheelers showed 31% drop in average PM10, 41% drop in PM2.5, 59%
in hydrocarbon, and 28% in CO. The street noise level was also significantly reduced as per general public
perception, although no quantitative measures were available. Overall it was estimated that the impact of
the ban translated to about 24µg/m decrease in the PM10 level in Dhaka on yearly basis. Health benefits
                                     3


estimates using accepted methodology showed health benefit of about US$2 per capita per year amounting
to about US$25 million per year for the city.

4.2.15 However, this removal program of two-stroke engine three-wheelers also had a serious negative
impacts. (i) it was implemented by MOC but it was in blatant disregard of recommended social mitigation



                                                     - 10 -

measures following a social assessment study carried out by DUTP, and it led to significant short to
medium-term adverse impacts on the livelihood of affected drivers, and (ii) lack of a follow-up ban on
polluting diesel buses had gradually eroded the air quality improvements achieved by the phase out of
two-stroke engine three-wheelers, as is indicated in Annex 1: 2.2.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1   At the ICR, an economic re-evaluation of the project was undertaken following a similar
methodology used in the PAD. The method of the economic analysis at completion was centered upon the
use of the urban transport planning model developed for the STP study.          In assessing the various
components, the networks were built for the "with-project" case and the "without-project" case. The model
was run for both cases resulting in an estimation of the effects which the addition of the complements
would have on the trips in the project affected area. This method was adopted for the Mohakhali Flyover,
Intersection Improvements, Inter-District Bus Terminal Improvements and Integrated Corridor
Developments. The assessment for the Flood Damage Rehabilitation used a traditional approach by
estimating incremental capital cost savings of rehabilitating the flood damaged roads and calculating
changes in vehicle operating cost savings and time savings due to the road improvements. This was
because the flood component links were minor residential roads and not included in the STP strategic
network.

4.3.2   The following assumptions were made when carrying out the economic analysis at completion:

- A 20 year analysis period was considered with 2004 being the base year and 2024 as the terminal year.
- At the terminal year a residual or salvage value of 15% has been taken for assets with life of 20 years or
  more.
- Constant base year prices have been used for economic evaluation. All the future costs and benefits
  relating to the project were at 2004 prices.
- The value of time savings were calculated by a weighted average travel time costs using the data in the
  RHD Annual Report, and then multiplied by the number of vehicle-hours to obtain the overall travel time
  costs.
- The vehicle operating cost savings (VOC) were measured by multiplying the vehicle kilometer of travel
  (VKT) by a weighted average of VOC per km based on the data in the RHD Annual Report.

4.3.3   The results of the analysis at completion showed that as stand-alone components, Mohakhali
Flyover had an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 16.98% (19 % at appraisal), Intersection
Improvements had an ERR of 23.94% (28 % at appraisal), Inter-District Bus Terminals had an ERR of
34.35% (17 % at appraisal), Integrated Corridor Development had an ERR of 39.68% (38 % at
appraisal), and Flood Damage Rehabilitation had an ERR of 26.63% (38 % at appraisal).                  The
consolidated project analysis shows an ERR of 29.11% (27 % at appraisal) for the total of the above
components. The level of ERR for each component was at an satisfactory level, and the achieved values at
completion reasonably support the intended economic benefits at appraisal (Annex 3 for detail).

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1   The institutional development impact of the project was modest.         The important equipment
support, such as the computerized vehicle registration and driver licensing system, and the roadside
emissions monitoring equipment for gross polluters for BRTA, the computerization of RTMF accounts and



                                                    - 11 -

the GIS mapping system for DCC, the signal controlling and management for TED/DCC, has certainly
given an opportunity to these agencies to enhance its performance and capability. However, from the past
record of their performance through the project period, the sustainability for the enhancement remains to be
seen further to judge if it eventually contributes to their strengthening.

4.5.2   DTCB was expected to be a permanent body to merge responsibilities for urban transport planning
and coordination of new urban transport development projects in DMA. It was a major proposal in the
DUTP design because the continuation of past practices would lead to the failure of the city to meet the
economic and social needs of its inhabitants, making it impossible to catch up later with the deficit in
transport infrastructure. Although the Government expressed a commitment at the project appraisal to
establish DTCB, it has been operated mainly as a PIU for DUTP during the project period. However, the
STP study has proposed establishment of a single metropolitan agency responsible for both transport
planning and land use planning. There are suggestions which could be an opportunity for DTCB be
strengthened to grow into this role.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1   Major Floods in 2004: A genuine factor outside the control of the government or implementing
agencies was the force of nature, the exceptional floods of July - September 2004. The widespread flood
caused by the heavy rains during this monsoon season largely damaged the urban infrastructure of Dhaka.
Large areas of the city have been flooded for a number of weeks, causing delays in ongoing construction
works. However, it caused relatively little damage to the completed works by that time, according to the
DSM consultant. The damages to these works that were under construction or within the defects liability
period were covered by insurance.

5.1.2   Repeated Hartal (General Strike): The repeated political turmoil, such as the "hartal" all through
the project period, did have significant effect on the implementation of civil works components of the
project. It obviously also have affected other "intangible" factors of daily project activities, as well as other
economic activities, such as meetings, delivery, transport, etc. The implementation progress could have
been improved at certain level if there had been without hartal, which should be significant if all hartal days
were counted during the project implementation period.

5.1.3   Complex Project Structure of DUTP: Perhaps the individual agencies should not be blamed for
the complicated structure of DUTP, in which many departments and organizations involved were under
unclear command structures, misunderstood command structures, or understood but ignored command
structures, which has often created complications.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1   Failure to Empower DTCB: As part of the project, GOB set up DTCB as an inter-agency unit for
overall transport planning and coordination for DMA. DTCB has been chaired by the Mayor of Dhaka
and represented by other municipalities in DMA. At the same time, since transport planning, policy and
regulations are functionally a responsibility of the MOC, DTCB has been administratively under MOC.
The Executive Director (ED) of DTCB reports to the Secretary of MOC. DTCB has played a major role
in coordinating implementation of DUTP. It also should have played a leading role in carrying out
transport planning, policy formulation for the metropolitan area, and also in the coordination of major
operation and investment decisions regarding urban transport in general with other agencies and
stakeholders.



                                                      - 12 -

5.2.2    However, due to the lack of its full authority to administer various implementing agencies, lack of
technical capability/expert staff to perform its mandated leadership, and also the lack of effective
leadership, the role of DTCB remained weak. It is true that this is largely because of the difficulty in
creating a new agency in vested rights and authorities of bureaucratic environment of the government.
However, DTCB could have played much more effective role in the coordination of urban transport among
other agencies and stakeholders if the proper leadership had been given from its birth and maintained
through the project period. From this viewpoint, it was certainly a factor subject to government control.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    Slow land acquisition and utility trenching over completed roads: The slow and inefficient
progress in arranging land acquisition, utility relocations and associated delays have been the factors
subject to the implementing agencies.         Also, the trenching by Utility Department (UD) at newly
reconstructed roads and footpaths have substantially deteriorated the quality of the completed construction.
This is a consequence of bad coordination among the implementing agencies, which could have been
avoided with reasonable planning and discussions within the given mandate of the agencies.

5.3.2    Inappropriate STU Installations: The procurement of the STUs for Mohakhali Flyover by the
contractor has caused a delay in their commissioning approximately by one year. The contractor tried to
find a way to reduce the cost of the STUs which was included in its bid price, and it took too long to settle
between the Engineer (PD of RHD) and the contractor, and it was a major cause of the delay. The
construction progress could have been much faster if the Engineer had taken a resolute and strict measures
to the contractor's compliance at the earlier stage. Considering the fact that the delayed installation of 21
STUs and noncompliance with the contract specifications of the installed STUs were the major problems in
the orderly project closure, it was a significant factor of delay subject to implementing agency control.

5.3.3    In addition to the STU issue, there are notable factors subject to implementing agency control
which have been discussed in this report such as: (i) repeated flyover design changes that eventually made it
impossible to implement the Jatrabari Flyover in the project period; (ii) lack of implementation of measures
to fully mitigate the adverse impacts of NMT-free conversion of Mirpur Road in Phase-2; (iii) delay in
notification of the RTMF financial rules and SOP by MOLGRD&C; and (iv) non-implementation of the
Dhaka bus study recommendations, as well as the pilot bus route franchise.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    At appraisal the total project cost was estimated at US$234.2 million, of which IDA's share was
US$177.0 million equivalent. The civil works at appraisal accounted for US$178.2 million, which was 76
% of the total project cost, whereas the procurement of equipment accounted for US$10.9 million (5 %),
and the technical assistance accounted for US$34.4 million (15 %). Due to the serious delays and slow
progress, the total project cost was revised at the MTR to be US$140.3 million, of which US$107.5 million
was to be financed by IDA. The revised civil works component was estimated to be US$96.6 million (68
%), procurement of equipment was estimated to be US$5.5 million (4 %), the technical assistance was
estimated to be US$19.0 million (14 %), the land acquisition and resettlement was estimated to be US$5.4
million (4 %) with a contingency of US$13.8 million (10 %).


5.4.2    At project closing, the total cost of the project was US$124.9 million, and IDA's financing share
was about US$93.1 million. About US$106.2 million was cancelled from the credit. The reduction in total
project cost was due to the reduction of the project scope at MTR. The final project cost (US$124.9



                                                      - 13 -

million) accounts for 53% of the original project cost, and 89% of the MTR revised project cost.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    The sustainability of the project is rated moderately likely, as the risk, at the time of evaluation,
that the development outcomes will not be maintained is moderate for the following reasons:

1) The physical completion of the project components has been in place and the improved urban transport
   infrastructure is effectively operational and its continued service is likely. Mohakhali Flyover has
   improved the through traffic of the complicated at-grade intersection with the railway crossing, the three
   inter-district bus terminals are expected to be in improved operations with private operators, and the
   rehabilitated corridors and intersections are also contributing to better traffic flow.

2) Due to the overall success in functionalizing the signalization in the 68 intersections, there is an
   opportunity for the TED in DCC to maintain and improve the signal operation to contributing to the
   better traffic management of the city, which is moderately likely. However, the initial stage of the
   signal operation was dependent on the contractor and the DSM consultants, and the effective take-over
   of these operations by the actual TED staff will have to be observed in the medium term.

3) A successful operation of the Road and Traffic Maintenance Fund (RTMF), with which DCC
   committed to route its entire annual road maintenance allocation through a dedicated account with
   setting up of proper financial controls and separate accounting/reporting, is moderately likely after its
   Rules and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) was approved by the DCC Mayor in early 2004, and
   finally approved by the Ministry of Local Government and Regional Development and Communities
   (MOLGRD&C) in June 2005 after a long time of non-compliance with the related legal covenant.

4) The sustainability of DTCB, the most important institutional arrangement of the project, is uncertain
   due to the weak commitment of senior officials of GOB at the end of the project, and repeated absence
   and frequent change of full time ED. As a recent example, a new full-time ED was appointed in March
   2005, after the absence of full time ED since October 2004, but the new ED was replaced again at the
   beginning of July 2005, soon after the closing date of the project. Also, DTCB's sustainable acquisition
   of a revenue budget status (i.e. permanent organization in the government organogram) has remained
   uncertain. It is difficult to expect the sustainable DTCB functioning for its expected role under these
   frequent changes of the leadership and uncertain revenue budget status, which are the key factors for
   DTCB to be sustainable. However, an opportunity remains with the earnest implementation of the
   institutional recommendations made in the STP study to strengthen DTCB's role in transport planning
   and coordination and extend its responsibility to land-use planning.

5) Award of pilot bus route franchise on an designated corridor had been pending since May 2004, and
   was not awarded by the end of the project. The enhancement of the key public transport mode, which
   should be associated with the NMT-free operation on major corridors, is unlikely, which gives
   uncertainty to the public transport enhancement, as well as to the sustainable expansion of NMT-free
   operation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    All the civil works and procurement of goods financed by the project were carried out and have
been fully operational at the end of the project. However, there were several remaining activities to be done



                                                     - 14 -

after the credit closing date. The remaining activities for the Strategic Transport Planning Study and
Impact Evaluation for the Mirpur Road, the demonstration corridor for NMT-free operation, were arranged
to be financed from the surplus credit amount available under the Third Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (RRMP-III). The Social Safety Net Package for affected rickshaw pullers and
vulnerable rickshaw owners were arranged to be financed under a proposed Microcredit-II project for
orderly closure of the remaining activities.

6.2.2    The future of the project could be further evaluated by potential "performance indicators". These
indicators would be:

a) The continuous revenue budget allocation for DTCB after the project closing and restored strong
   leadership by the full-time ED, clarification of the roles and responsibilities of DTCB.
b) GOB endorsement of the Strategic Transport Planning Study, finalized with effective stakeholder
   consultation.
c) TED's independent management of signal operations and further expansion of signalized intersections.
d) Pilot and further extended bus franchise awarding.
e) RTMF - making Road and Traffic Management Fund operational and functional by DCC.

6.2.3    The possibility of any follow-up operation by the IDA would highly depend on the satisfactory
evaluation of the above indicators. As urban transport condition in DMA continues to be in a serious
situation, follow-up projects based on GOB endorsed Strategic Transport Plan would be desired if there is
a positive outcome of the above "performance indicators". The priority for the follow-up operation would
depend on the final recommendation of the STP, but any follow-up project should have a high focus on the
enhancement of public transport services, particularly in an economically and environmental sustainable
manner and with a strong focus on helping the urban poor.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1    IDA's performance at the identification and preparation stage was moderately unsatisfactory, as
there were significant shortcomings during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project. The
DUTP PAD was a very well documented material to figure out the urban transport problem and diagnosis
in Dhaka, but it could have only been a good implementation plan if it had been designed for well
organized, functioning and mature implementing environment. The project design was too complex with
involving too many different government agencies and too many components for the given urban transport
project implementation environment in Dhaka. The task team should have considered the reality of
implementing environment more seriously, and the fact that this was IDA's first urban transport operation
in Bangladesh and there would have been a high risk of implementation delays and problems with the weak
implementing agencies. The project should have been designed to begin with focusing on only a few key
elements with high impacts, which could have been extended (in size) and expanded (in scope) with
capacity enhancement of the implementing agencies.


7.1.2    The setting up of DTCB was a main proposal in DUTP, which was designed to be an inter-agency
unit for overall transport planning and coordination for DMA, to fill a major gap in the existing
institutional framework for coordination of urban transport. This idea is not unique for Dhaka; similar
mechanisms have been proposed in many urban transport plans worldwide. However, it could only be
functional by providing such agency with sufficient capacity and authority to act for the anticipated



                                                     - 15 -

function. This is always the major difficulty in setting up a new agency like DTCB because the existing
various transport agencies have their own established mandate, authority and income generating mechanism
from user fees and government budget, and none of these existing agencies would be pleased to give up
their power. So in the institutional aspect, the major focus should have been given to how to strengthen
DTCB in its capacity and line of authorities for its expected function. However, very little technical
support was given in this context in the project design. Also, the dual authority on DTCB (chaired by the
DCC Mayor but reporting to MOC), and the ambiguity in supervision decisions between DTCB and
RHD/DCC should have been noticed as critical risks against orderly implementation.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    IDA's performance during project supervision was moderately satisfactory, as there were
moderate shortcomings in the proactive identification of opportunities and resolution of threats. During the
initial stage of the project implementation, the land acquisition, resettlement and other implementation
activities were already showing critical signs of substantial implementation incapability, but the task team
did not propose fundamental mitigation measures except for raising alarm for the delays. Also, quite
significant part of delays in the procurement process was attributable to the IDA side.

7.2.2    However, during MTR and its follow-up, the task team tackled with most of the critical issues, and
actively negotiated with the hesitating implementation agencies to restructure the project for dropping some
components and shifting the implementing agency. It eventually led to the orderly closure of the project
with at least revised physical components of the project to be completed, so that one of the PDOs (improve
urban transport infrastructure and services) has been broadly achieved; it also partially achieved some
institutional mechanism developed under the project, such as the RTMF. The supervision in the later stage
of the project has looked into various technical factors as well, and the advice and suggestions during the
supervision was appropriate and effective. It was typically evident in the STU installation delay, where
IDA's strong intervention in the Mohakhali Flyover STU testing standoff and referral of the matter to the
integrity unit eventually caused the implementing agency to insist that the contractor meets his contractual
commitments.

7.2.3    Phase-2 NMT-free conversion on the demonstration corridor was largely delayed, while the task
team had focused on the social safety net for affected rickshaw pullers. After DCC implemented the
Phase-2 NMT-free conversion with no associated social mitigation measures, a strong social criticism
occurred against the NMT-free conversion particularly from various NGO groups. The criticism varied in
nature; it accused the lack of social safety net package for the affected people, the lack of providing
alternative public transport services to mitigate the functions of NMT, and also accused IDA's support to
NMT-free conversion itself based on a "car-free world" philosophy, which is opposing the allocation of
more road space to private motorized vehicles. With the benefit of hindsight, IDA could have been more
prepared to the risks associated with supporting a potentially controversial policy by giving more technical
support in preparation of social mitigation measures, for example, where the Borrower lacked the capacity
and/or the will to fully implement the suggested mitigation measures.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1    The overall performance of IDA is rated moderately satisfactory, considering the above
assessment with the outcome rating given in Section 4.1.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The performance of the Borrower during the preparation stage was unsatisfactory, as there were


                                                    - 16 -

major shortcomings in their performance.        Many commitments for DUTP components and project
implementation were made during extensive discussions with IDA, but many of the key actions were
delayed, which eventually caused the significant slippage of the appraisal. The procedural delays have
slipped the project implementation already by two years at the beginning of the project in early 1999. In
particular the delay in establishing GCTPCB (currently DTCB) and appointment of its key staff including
the Executive Director, delay of ECNEC's approval of the Project Concept Paper (PCP), delay of
consultant's work for preparation of Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) which largely due to difficulty in
getting access to land related data from the concerned GOB agencies, among others, were the major
slippage toward the appraisal.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    The Government's implementation performance was moderately unsatisfactory, as there were
significant shortcomings in their performance.      DUTP, given its nature and involvement of several
ministries and many agencies, was a complex project. Due to procedural delays, many of which were
attributable to delays in Government approval, the implementation of the project was largely slipped. In
particular, the establishment of DTCB, which was the main institutional reform for urban transport system
in DMA, was largely delayed; the enabling legislation (DTCB Bill) has finally passed the Parliament in
April 2001, two years after the beginning of the project. It was a major discouraging event for effective
project implementation leadership.

7.5.2    Even though setting up a new organization is a major challenge in the Government bureaucracy,
the establishment of DTCB was a major reform opportunity for urban transport sector in DMA, and it
could have been a much higher success with the Government's strong leadership. However, the lack of
leadership in DTCB during the repeated absence and frequent change of the full-time ED throughout the
project period has implications that the Government was not fully committed that DTCB should act as it
was intended to.

7.5.3    The success in the removal of two-stroke three-wheelers from Dhaka in coordination with AQMP
and as a legal covenant of DUTP was a landmark achievement of the Government. A lot of public support
was created through the project-related interactions with the stakeholders and the press, and the impact was
remarkable. It was a good example that a strong political commitment could achieve a significant result,
which turned to imply that the Government is largely attributable to the above-mentioned unsatisfactory
outcomes. However, the disregard of social mitigation measures, the governance concerns related to the
import of CNG three-wheelers, and the lack of follow-up measures to reduce polluting diesel buses which
eroded the air quality improvement should also be noted associated with this achievement.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    Overall project management was moderately unsatisfactory, as there were significant
shortcomings in the performance of the implementing agencies.          The entire project period from the
preparation to the closing was associated with repeated delays. The major delays during the first half of the
project period had led to the restructuring and reduction of the significant project scope at MTR from
US$234.2 million to US$140.3 million. Even after the MTR, the continued delays have caused the two
time credit closing date extension by one year. However, the project was eventually closed with many
achievements even with these associated delays.

7.6.2    Many of the delays were related to the project management. For example, both of the two flyovers
in the original scope (Mohakhali and Jatrabari) were redesigned after project commencement due to
changing Borrower/implementing agency's requirements, and in case of Jatrabari Flyover, the delayed



                                                   - 17 -

design and substantial increase of the construction cost had led to the cancellation of this component from
DUTP. The delayed installation of the STUs and noncompliance with the contract specifications of the
installed STUs for Mohakhali Flyover were attributable to the insufficient project management.

7.6.3    The Phase-2 NMT-free conversion on Mirpur corridor had created a strong social criticism since it
was implemented without associated social mitigation measures and associated bus priority measures,
without public transport enhancement for the NMT-free corridor, without effective roadside parking
restrictions and appropriate usage of the created space. The pilot bus route franchise recommended in the
associated study had not been implemented until the project closing. These facts have hampered further
implementation of the NMT-free conversion on the designated corridors.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1    The overall performance of the Borrower is rated moderately unsatisfactory, considering the
above assessment with the outcome rating given in Section 4.1.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1      Complex project design should be avoided in a weak implementation environment. Urban
transport projects tend to be fairly complex operations. To be successful in a weak implementation
environment as in the case of DUTP, the project design should be kept simple, and the project size must be
calibrated to demonstrated implementation capacity. Urban transport measures in a large city should rather
be addressed through a series of operations, possibly in rapid succession, which can be progressively
increase in size and complexity. Significant policy reforms, such as establishing new agencies, designating
bus priority and/or separation of slow and fast moving traffic modes, establishing secure and stable road
maintenance funding, public transport reform, may be better pursued through the Development Policy
Lending (DPL).

8.2      Project objectives and components with TA requirements must be clearly aligned. The PDOs
for DUTP explicitly included improvements in transport services, but the initial project design did not
include particular TA sub-component or measures to support this PDO. That was a cause of unsuccessful
improvement in transport services, particularly the bus sector. Measures proposed under the Dhaka Bus
Study initiated in MTR were not implemented by the GOB.

8.3      Borrower's high ownership and clear leadership are essential to ensure progress on significant
policy and institutional reform. A project should not be initiated unless the Borrower's high ownership is
clearly demonstrated.   To drive a project like DUTP, the city needs an empowered, committed and
competent core agency with tenured top management, having ready access to the Mayor/decision maker's
office, and coordinating with the various players. Such an organization cannot be created overnight, and it
needs strong political leadership and support. The formal establishment of DTCB was delayed by two
years after the commencement of the project, and the fact that the position of ED have been changed five
times (6 EDs) with repeated lengthy absence clearly shows the lack of commitment to empowerment of
DTCB.

8.4      Line of authorities for project management should be clearly defined. In DUTP the DSM
consultant was appointed by DTCB, and conflicting situations occurred often between DTCB and
RHD/DCC on project management decisions. The DSM consultant was also confused in the ambiguous
authority regarding final approval of designs, where any decision was never final, and there was always
interference from all corners (ministries, members of parliament, commissioners, police sergeants,
shopkeepers, etc.). A better way would have been that the DSM services should be directly provided to the



                                                   - 18 -

implementing agencies, not through a coordinating office, since it dilutes ownership and responsibility.

8.5      The independent "Engineer" role separated from the "Employer" should be insisted in a
complex project with weak borrower implementation capacity. For agencies with weak contract
administration capacity, it is important to strongly insist on moving the "Engineer" role to an international
(definitely not local) consulting firm.      In DUTP, the DSM consultant was only the "Engineer's
representative", and the "Engineer" was the PDs both in RHD (ICB) contracts and in DCC (NCB)
contracts. This weak position of the DSM consultant has obviously led to many unsatisfactory events,
such as the STU fiasco at Mohakhali Flyover. The independence of the Engineer's role was seldom
achieved in Bangladesh including DUTP in spite of IDA's push during preparation discussions. Many of
the delays and improper project performances were caused by this very weak position of the DSM
consultant, who should have played a key role in project management. The difference is obvious by
comparing DUTP with the Jamuna Multipurpose Bridge Project (completed in December 1999), in which
the supervision consultant was designated as the Engineer (as the first and the only case so far in
Bangladesh transport sector), and it was assessed as a major cause of satisfactory project management
results. This is more like a "governance" issue, rather than a "capability" issue.

8.6      Clear incentive/penalty mechanism must be enhanced for better consultancy services. In
time-based supervision consultancy contracts under IDA guidelines, the more the construction delays, the
more the supervision consultant will be paid, in which the consultant does not have a strong incentive to
facilitate Contractor's work on schedule, in fact it is quite opposite. In DUTP the consultant's contract
payment eventually ended up about 50% higher than the original contract value. There should be a penalty
clause for the consultant's remuneration related to progress achieved by the Contractor, by applying a
penalty or capping the total payment. It can also be applied as an incentive, when appropriate, that the
consultant could receive extra bonus if the Contractor's progress is beyond the schedule. However, such
incentive/penalty mechanism should be applied with stronger authority or ability of the consultant to
exercise project management decisions, such as the designation of the Engineer's role, as discussed above.

8.7      The maximum number of consultant firms forming a joint venture must be capped. In DUTP
the DSM consultant was made up of seven firms (four international and three domestic), and was constant
in-argument about who provides the resident supervisory staff. The maximum number of firms should be
capped at about three or so in maximum. The overall quality of local consultant staff provided for
construction supervision was generally fairly poor.

8.8      Wider civil society consultation, parallel implementation of social mitigation measures and
higher quality impact assessment studies are essential for potentially controversial measures, such as
NMT-free conversion. Urban transport/development projects draw a lot of public attention. The project
affected people (PAPs) by the NMT-free conversion under DUTP drew a lot of attention from NGOs and
media. At the initial stage of implementation, adequate attention was not paid for preparing a fact-based
social safety net for PAPs in parallel with the implementation, nor a comprehensive social assessment
including stakeholder mapping and analysis was undertaken, which left a large gap in identifying
stakeholder groups, their interests and potential mitigation strategies. The assessment of social impacts of
the NMT-free conversion on the demonstration corridor was explicitly initiated at MTR. The specific
adverse impacts were quantified after implementation of Phase-1 conversion, but detailed preparation of the
mitigation package was delayed due to lack of timely decisions in GOB. This is also partly because the
impact assessment study was not in high quality, and an effective social safety net was difficult to be
designed, and civil society consultation was not sufficient to share its purposes, benefits and losses. These
factors have delayed the process, and the social safety net for the rickshaw pullers could not be
implemented by the credit closing date. IDA offered to provide support to this under another project. In


                                                    - 19 -

future transport projects, social safety net for PAPs for implementing influential operation measures should
be carefully prepared in advance and implemented in parallel within the project period.

8.9      Car parking strategy should be prepared for converted NMT-free streets. Car parking is one of
the major urban transport issues, and Dhaka is no exception. After the NMT-free conversion, the roadside
of Mirpur corridor has been jammed by parked cars. Other limited street space has been also often blocked
by parked cars. A fairly good car parking policy was drafted with the DSM consultant's assistance, but it
was never fully implemented. There could have been a coordination with RAJUK, who provides licences
for building construction, as DUTP undertook traffic management. Car parking should be an important
issue to be considered in future urban transport project.

8.10     Public relations and comprehensive communication strategy are particularly important for
urban transport projects. A Public Consultative Group (PCG) was formed under DTCB Chairman (DCC
Mayor) to discuss issues with the stakeholders. During project preparation, regular meetings were held,
however, very few meetings were held during project implementation.                It gave rise to lots of
misunderstanding among public, particularly in the case of NMT-free conversion on the demonstration
corridor. The PCG should have been formed based on the stakeholder analysis. A detail communication
strategy based on social assessments, providing information in effective regular briefing with the media,
would have helped reduce opposition, obtain allies, and avoid unnecessary public criticism to some specific
issues. Socially difficult and challenging decisions can be implemented with strong public support created
by working with the stakeholders and the press. A transparent, open-minded, discussion-oriented approach
with enhanced stakeholder consultations is the key for success in urban transport projects which are
controversial by nature.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1      Introduction

The comments made in this section were prepared by DTCB in consultation with other agencies and
parties, namely RHD, DCC, BRTA, DMP, and consultants and contractors involved in the project.

With the World Bank funding, the implementation of Dhaka Urban Transport Project (DUTP) was started
is 1998-99 FY and completed in June 2005. This was the first major aided project in the urban transport
sector in Bangladesh. The World Bank agreed to provide US $177 million for this pilot projects. The
principal development objective of the project was to improve urban transport infrastructure, services (in
an environmentally sustainable manner for Dhaka residents including women and poor people) and to
address the long term transport planning. The major project components were (i) infrastructure
development, (ii) goods and equipments for different stakeholders, (iii) institutional strengthening and
human resource development for concerned agencies and (iv) consultancies and different studies such as
design, supervision and monitoring consultants (DSM) and long term (20 years horizon) Strategic
Transport Plan (STP) Study for DMA.

9.2      Objectives and other Goals

Project Development Objectives: the main project development objective of this project was to improve the
urban transport infrastructure, services (in an environmentally sustainable and integrated manner for Dhaka
residents including women and poor people) and to address long term transport planning.

Project Outputs: the project was formed with three major components: urban transport infrastructure,
institutional support and training, and policy support.



                                                     - 20 -

The urban transport infrastructure, included (a) intersection improvements, providing parking facilities and
earmarking vehicle restricted areas; (b) arterial road rehabilitation and improvement; (c) bus route
improvements; (d) bus terminals rehabilitation; (e) pedestrians facilities improvement; (f) NMT network
improvement; (g) flood damaged roads rehabilitation; and (h) construction of grade separated interchange
facilities at two location (Mohakhali and Jatrabari). .

The institutional support and training involves (a) traffic management; (b) project supervision, coordination
and management; (c) financial management; (d) environmental management; (e) monitoring and
enforcement; and (f) regulation of public transport services.

The policy support included (a) long term strategic transport plan; (b) feasibility study for Dhaka ring
road; and (c) detail engineering design and preparation of follow up project.

Clarity of Project Development Objectives: The objectives were clear and measurable. The project benefits
and the targeted groups were clearly identified during project preparation, and a project monitoring and
evaluation system was developed to track implementation and achievement of development outcomes.

9.3      Consistency of Project Components

The project appraisal team for DUTP identified the relevance of the project objectives, consistency of the
design, and arrangements made to handle the complexity of the project components. The project was
assessed as a medium risk project and the most critical one was institutional capacities to execute
components by the respective agencies in a timely manner. This happened in terms of preparation of
contract documents, proper design of roads, intersection and bus terminals. The "software" components
were the key for success of the project including (a) improving traffic management, (b) enforcement of
traffic rules, (c) strengthening line agencies capability to monitor and coordination, (d) implementation of
resettlement plan, and (e) total ban of 2-stroke engines from Dhaka City

9.4      Complexity of the Project

Urban Transport development depends on several inter related components. Several ministries (4
ministries) and agencies (7 agencies) are involved in this gigantic task. It was the first major aided project
in Dhaka City funded by the World Bank. Without past experience in such project of complex nature it was
difficult to achieve the loan covenants of the World Bank.

Urban Transport experts are not easily available in this country because the local universities did not
produce such experts. They did not have necessary faculty. Also overseas experts could not be adequately
procured for various reasons. So it was difficult to fill the experts post of DTCB with skilled manpower for
which the project implementation works suffered more. In case of the most of the packages due to traffic
condition plying on that road, the physical works had to be done during late night only i.e. for 11-00 pm to
6 am only which also contributed to the cost and time overrun of the packages.

Though Capital city's transport development deserved a special consideration and it is one of the priority
development agenda of the government but mainly in the absence of a Strategic Transport Plan for the city
it could not be improved in the past. Even though the demand is 4/5 times higher than the supply facilities.
In such a critical situation sustainable achievement could not be made with first DUTP project, which was
designed with short-term components only.

Initially, the design of the project was very poor and components scattered through out the city which
would have no impact in respect of achievements of project development objective. DCC was assigned with
70% of the physical works but the capacity and experience of DCC was not enough to handle such a big
project having ICB contracts. During Mid Term Review (MTR) of the project. the project was downsized
and restructured. ICB components were shifted from DCC to RHD who have better experience and
capacity to handle ICB contracts. As a result the project gained momentum. Largely it could now be


                                                     - 21 -

completed successfully with strong commitment of DTCB.

DTCB by now have gained valuable experience on urban transport development. Its capacity has also
increased to some extent. It can now undertake activities with better strength and experience in meaningful
way to improve city transportation in the days to come.

9.5     The Revised Components

As already mentioned, the projects were restructured with revised components during Mid Term Review
MTR of the project the work of construction of Jatrabari Flyover, NMT network improvements, ideas of
auto-restricted zones etc. were dropped instead of Integrated Corridor Development package (4 packages)
and 2 Pedestrian Improvement packages were incorporated in the project. The detail of project components
and costs are presented in the following table. It is worth mentioning that some minor components, which
were planned at the planning stage, were changed in the implementation periods. Accordingly US$ 65
million were cancelled from the project. This amount could have been utilized for financing the increased
construction cost of Jatrabari Flyover which would have greater impact in respect of achievement of project
development objective.
                                                                                           (Figure in US$)
                 Detail of components                   Contract             Share of       Total cost
                                                        number                 IDA
 A. Infrastructure development (civil works)
1. Widening and improvement of different road A1,A2, A3, A4                 14,151,097      18,868,127
   (4 packages)
2. Integrated corridor improvement (4 packages)        C15A, C15B,           7,512,253      10,016,338
                                                       C15C, C15D
3. Footpaths, Foot over bridge and NMT links C4A, C4B, C12                   2,683,345        3,577,792
   (3 packages)
4. Pedestrian Corridors (2 packages)                   C4D, C4C              3,738,604        4,984,805
5. Parking facilities                                  C9-1                    180,679          240,905
6. Flood Damaged road (2 packages)                     C11/1, C11/2          3,912,760        5,217,014
7. Improvement of intersection (2 packages)            C2, C3                5,713,240        7,617,653
8. Inter-district bus terminal                         C5                    6,236,723        8,315,630
9. Mohakhali Flyover                                   C1                   14,189,003      18,918,671
10. Tongi Bypass and Bridge                            C7                      692,570          923,426
 B. Goods and equipment
 Dhaka City Corporation (DCC)                           ETSS1                2,018,426        2,691,235
11. Installation of Traffic Signal
12. Routine Road maintenance equipment                 RME-1B                   83,150          103,937
13. Procurement of vehicles (3 packages)               V1NV1, V2NV5,           195,339          244,173
                                                       EV2
14. Computer and computer software (3 packages)        V1C3, V1C5,             160,170          200,212
                                                       V1C6
15. Office Furniture                                   R-2, OE/2, OE/3           9,210           11,513
 Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA)
16. Computer Accessories /ID System for BRTA            V1C1                   911,659        1,008,696
17.Partial Flow meter, micro bus, Gas Analyser EGP-1, EGP-2A,                  101,720          127,150
    and Walkie-Talkie (4 packages)                     EGP-2B, GGP-2C,
18. Computers with other related equipment             V1EC1                   117,155          146,443



                                                    - 22 -

 Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP)
19. Communication equipment (2 packages)                R-1, EGP-2D             80,678           84,154
20. Vehicles                                           TE/01, TEO2/1,        1,009,038       1,106,872
                                                       TEO2/2,
                                                       TEO2/2A,
                                                       DMPV3, DMPV4,
                                                       DMPV2
21. Computer and Portable Generator                    EGP-2C, EGP-2B            3,539            4,425
22. Training Equipment                                 TTO1                     76,806           94,758
23. Field Equipment                                    TE-03                   183,029         228,786
 Roads and Highways Department (RHD)
24. Cross Country vehicle                               V2NV4                   83,437         104,296
 Dhaka Transport Coordination Board (DTCB)
25. Computers with accessories                          V1EC2, V1C4            112,947         141,184
26. Computer with accessories                          V1C2                     45,217           56,522
27. Cross country vehicles                             EV1, V2NV/01,           422,747         528,435
                                                       V2NV/02A
                                                       V2NV/02-B
C.    Institutional   strengthening   and     human    -                       267,826         267,826
resource development
 D. Studies and Design, Supervision and
 monitoring Consultant (DSM)
31. Design, Supervision and Monitoring (DSM)                                11,304,348      11,304,348
32. Strategic Transport Planning (STP) study           T5                    2,034,783                -
33.GIS Mapping for Holding Tax, FM System -                                    117,018         117,018
    Accountant, RTMF Accounting Audit
34. Bus Route Franchise Study, Phase-I                 (S) T3                   55,141           55,141
35. Performance Audit, Phase-I Phase-II                T2                       15,914           15,914
36.After study, video documentation, census for -                               37,636           37,636
    development of mitigation strategy for Rickshaw
    Pullers
37. Traffic Demand Survey                              TS1                      33,790           33,790
38.Urban Poverty Mapping, NGO Assistance for -                                 126,070         126,070
    Enforcement       programme      implementation
    Assistance, Awareness and training etc.
39. Environmental Specialist                           -                         6,000            6,000

9.6      Quality at Entry

The project appraisal team for DUTP identified the relevance of the project objectives and consistency of
the project components, and arrangements made to handle the complexity of the project components. The
project was oversized in the context of institutional capability. Corridor concept, which was included at a
later stage proved effective. Moreover, the assessment of the risks was more accurate and practical.

9.7      Risks and Mitigation Measures

The project was assessed as a "Medium" risk project. The most critical one was identified as institutional
capacities to execute the components in a timely manner. This happened in terms of preparation of contract



                                                   - 23 -

documents and general documentation, proper design of roads, intersection, and bus-terminals. Moreover,
approval on documentation and other works also delayed by relevant authorities. The "software"
components were key for success of the project including (a) improving traffic management, (b)
enforcement of traffic regulations, (c) better road rehabilitation and establishment of maintenance
standards, and (d) strengthening the line agencies capability to monitor and coordinate transport planning in
Dhaka. Moreover, cost recovery and O&M (which will be financed by Road and Traffic Maintenance
Fund, RTMF) was addressed as a key action for sustaining of the proposed investments and thought that
those efforts would cumulatively improve sustainability.

However, the risks were sufficiently dealt with in timely manner, for instance, implementation of
resettlement action plan, total ban of 2-stroke engines from Dhaka city, road maintenance, coordination
among different line agencies, and implementation of traffic diversion management plans during
implementation of civil works. The other risks, e.g. delay in execution of civil works specially the DCC
components, keeping sidewalks clear from encroachment were also mitigated to some extent.

9.8      Attention of financial aspects

During project preparation, a financial management assessment was carried out. The PCU was staffed with
a qualified Cost and Management Accountant (CMA) to handle disbursement of funds, which was
recommended by March 1-17, 1999 The World Bank Mission. As per Bangladesh Government rules, the
Comptroller and Auditor General was responsible for carrying out audits of the project accounts. As
recommended by the World Bank an individual firm was engaged to conduct the Performance Audit of the
project components. Moreover, PIUs were staffed properly.

9.9      Achievement of Objective and Outputs

The overall achievement from civil works of the pilot DUTP are; increasing of bus service (1500 to 2839)
including CNG operated buses, increasing of vehicle speed from 15 kph to 22 kph, decreasing of air
pollution (PM10 reduced by 30% and HC reduced by 30%) and accident reduced by 50% in the city. As
part of infrastructure development, vehicles are moving faster, pedestrians are walking safely, city
terminals have been improved for smooth movement of buses. Commissioning of traffic signals at 59
intersections have brought back the discipline of vehicles. The other achievement relating to project
implementation are; creation of Traffic Engineering Division (TED) at DCC, creation of Road Traffic
Maintenance Fund (RTMF) under DCC, Road Maintenance Management System (RMMS) at DCC and
engagement of private sector for bus terminal operation, and establishment of city transport database at
DTCB and BUET respectively.

On the other hand, the implemented civil works were economically rational. The Cost Benefit Analysis
(CBA) results for major physical components conducted by STP consultants are presented in below:

 Name of components                                  NPV (@ 12%) in million.               EIRR (%)
                                                                Taka.
Mohakhali Flyover                                                 548                         16.98
Intersections Improvements                                        762                         23.94
Three inter-district bus terminals                                484                         34.35
Integrated Corridor Developments                                3,998                         39.68
Flood Components Links                                            309                         26.63
Total                                                           6,102                         29.11
Source: Implementation Completion Report, The Louis Berger Group, Inc and Bangladesh Consultant Ltd, September 2005.


The preparation of Strategic Transport Plan (STP) was the key objective for future follow-up projects



                                                        - 24 -

and continuity of transport improvement projects for Dhaka city. Accordingly, proposal for 36 months long
study was received, evaluated and sent to the World Bank for concurrence. But, the World Bank Mission of
July 2000 had decided that the Strategic Transport Plan study would be unbundled. Later, on persuasion of
DTCB the World Bank agreed to finance STP component, but due to time constrain the duration of the
study was shortened to 8 months periods. The prime objectives of the STP are; (a) formulation of long-term
Strategic Transport Plan for DMA for the period of 2004-2024, (b) Formulation of urban Transport Policy
including urban transport development, operations and management, and (c) Identification of priority
projects and preparation of terms of reference for the first phase (first five years). The other objectives
were to develop EMME/2 Urban Transport Model and creation of database at DTCB and BUET. As a
Part of Consultation process the STP Consultants have made about 50 presentations for creating a feeling
of ownership amongst the stakeholders. The consultants performed their presentation at Planning
Commission, Ministry of Communications, Dhaka City Corporation, Bangladesh Railway, Roads and
Highways Department, Dhaka Transport Coordination Board, Local Government Engineering
Department, RAJUK, Bangladesh Transport Authority, Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority,
Bangladesh Inland Transport Corporations, Dhaka Metropolitan Police, Institution of Engineers
Bangladesh, Federation Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industries, Dhaka Chamber of Commerce
and Industries, Press conference, Editors conference, Reporters conference, civil societies, World Bank,
Asian Development Bank, Institute of Planners etc.

As per recommendation of the World Bank an Advisory Committee, consisting of eminent professionals
and senior ex-government officials have been constituted to guide the Consultants in finalization of STP.
So far, the Advisory Committee hold nine meetings and contributed greatly to guide the consultants in
improving the quality of different reports of the STP Study.

9.10    Major Factor affecting Implementation and Outcome

The DUTP was the first multi-agency urban transport project. The personnel had no high level of capacity
in respect of technical expertise, overall urban road design, coordination and accountability. It was
expected that the DTCB would play the lead role in coordination of the project. However, due to the
absence of its authority to administer various implementing agencies the role of DTCB remained weak and
the project could not achieve its goal timely. During implementation of the contract packages it was
observed that there were so many items included in more than one variations in a single contract reflects the
absence of farsightedness on the part of consultant's design review stage. Project Management
Arrangement agreed between the World Bank and the GOB and incorporated in the PP "AED(TMPTI) will
be the Engineer of the Project" could not be adhered to due to timely non response from PIU, DCC which
have contributed to cost and time overrun of the packages. Delay of the World Bank on concurrence of
Mohakhali Flyover and Inter-district Bus Terminals Packages respectively have also contributed to overall
delay of the project activities. It was also observed that during preparation and approval stage of tender
documents and their evaluations the consultant's performance was not effective, because some of the
documents were corrected too many times due to non-fulfillment of IDA's requirements.

The Performance Audit Team remarked that all procurement processes started later than planned and
delays occurred almost at every milestone and some of the delays may be termed as inordinate. Most of
the delays remained unexplained casting dark shadows over the entire procurement due to sheer time
overrun. IDA's contribution to the delays were also significant, in some cases inordinately occurred on
approval of procurement contract. From borrower perspective, there was no continuity of posting of
Executive Director throughout the project period. This reduced the continuity of project knowledge and
ownership. It is difficult to take preparation for transport improvement with so many problems in head
especially because of shortage of skilled manpower in the field. It is also difficult to enforce traffic
discipline in such an over congested city. Moreover, all the related agencies lacked skilled manpower and




                                                    - 25 -

management capacity at the initial stage of the project.

9.11     Performance of the World Bank

The project plan was prepared as per DCA approval by GOB and IDA but the same had been changed time
to time as per the WB visiting mission's requirement reflected in their subsequent aide memoire, which also
caused delay of project implementation. During approval stages of different documents, in some cases, IDA
also took longer time to convey their concurrence. Moreover, the decision to unbundle the STP had
seriously handicapped DTCB in transport planning and identifying future components as follow up projects
of GOB. Therefore, combining all the factors delayed the project activities.

It may also be mentioned here that, the supervision of the World Bank specially in the initial years were not
adequate which was covered up subsequently.

9.12     Sustainability

In context of sustainability, the project is economically robust. The project exhibited tangible benefits in the
context of traffic flow, traffic management and enforcement and Dhaka City dwellers are getting benefits
from the project. On the other hand, public bus service and traffic flow increased and at the same time,
traffic signals have been rationalized. Traffic police are now giving more attention to enforce traffic rules.
The benefits from the major physical infrastructure work were knowledge gained by the implementing
agencies, which can be replicated in future. The other indication of sustainability is the involvement of
private sector for bus terminal operation. However, the establishment of DTCB as transport planning and
coordination organization is a big indication for sustainability. The DTCB has prepared a Strategic
Transport Plan for DMA and it is the good start for future urban transport sector improvement. With this
plan, DTCB can now attract Donors fund in the urban sector. However, to sustain these benefits, Dhaka
Metropolitan Area (DMA) needs continuity of investment for introduction of efficient public transport,
construction of missing links, and control over land use plan and lastly implementation of Strategic
Transport Plan (STP).

9.13     Lessons Learned

DTCB and related agencies have now learnt valuable lessons from the experience of coordination and
monitoring of such a complex project, especially because of training at home and abroad and discussions
with overseas experts. The organizations are now capable to prepare urban transport policy, parking
policy, land use planning, construction of roads, footpath, over bridges, improvement of intersections,
construction of inter-district bus terminals, integrated corridor improvement, creation of          pedestrian
corridors, construction of flyovers etc. It would be easier to handle such a complex project in future with
better output. As a part of ICR, the stakeholders have also responded from their view point which are
accommodated in the following sections.

9.14     RHD's Comments

Firstly, RHD's comments relating to the factors, which have affected to their implementation progress are;
(a) rain and flood, (b) late hand over of working space of 3 IDBT, (c) hartals (strike) and local disturbance,
(d) slow progress of utility relocation and lengthy process of land acquisition, due to late procurement of
STU of Mohakhali Flyover, and (e) late concurrence of the World Bank in some cases..

The problems encountered at the implementation periods were; (a) DTCB's intervention in the
implementing process suggesting changes in the design and taking up additional works beyond the contract,
though they had no authority to change the works, (b) DSM consultants appointed by DTCB (b) awarding
delay of Mohakhali Flyover from the World Bank, which have caused cost overrun in respect of
supervision cost and price escalation, and lastly (c) slow and unplanned activities of utility agencies in




                                                     - 26 -

removal of utility.

9.15     DCC's Comments

The context of ICR, DCC had commended on various aspect of project implementation works including
services. The first comments of DCC were shifting of packages at the period of Mid-Term review by the
World Bank. DCC has noticed that RHD did not expand the scope of works and city dwellers deprived
from the project benefits. At the same time, hand over of Inter-district bus terminals to RHD was not a wise
decision of the World Bank, because RHD dropped major scope of works which could reduce people
sufferings. The completion of supply and installation of traffic signals delayed due to poor consultant
supervision, for instance, proper documentation, supervision support and intervention from police
department. The deficiencies of tender and contract document also delayed the project works. The other
comments were lack of coordination between civil works contractor and traffic signaling contractor, and Sr.
Traffic specialist was not available at the crucial time

DCC had various comment on consultants services. The comments were; (a) the design was not practical in
many cases that caused frequent modification of design, (b) Consultant delayed preparation of bidding
documents and mentioned cost was not estimated in a logical way, for instance, contract packages A1, A2,
A3, A4, C15A, (W)C15B, (W)C15C, (W)C4C and (W)C4D, and (c) DSM consultant appointed by DTCB
and this situation had created confusion to get service for PIU, DCC.

DCC concluded their comments pointing out that Dhaka city needs more works in context of infrastructure
development, Road safety works, etc. More NMT link road to be improved to facilitate movement of the
low income/middle class people. DCC is more experienced than before by availing the foreign and local
training and it was a great achievement from organized training program. Presently, DCC is capable to
prepare urban transport policy, land use plan, intersection design, construction of road and footpath and
construction of flyover in a better way.

9.16     BRTA's Comments

The BRTA's comment includes mainly institutional capacity related to handle the BRTA-IS which have
been installed under the project. They need more training on it and for sustainability of the system, post
warranty maintenance of BRTA-IS for at least 3 (three) years is very essential.

9.17     DMP's Comments

The DMP's ICR report appreciated the initiatives taken in this project by way of providing Towing
Vehicles, Patrolling Vehicles, Motor Cycle, Buses, Field equipments, Traffic enforcement equipments, etc.
which have enhanced traffic enforcement capability to a great extent. Training to their officers, Sergeant
and Constable at home and abroad also increased their capabilities, which have added new momentum into
their activities.

9.18     Contractor's Comments

Part of ICR, some Contractors also gave comments. The China First Metallurgical Construction
Corporation opined that they completed substantial works by 04.11.2004 as per contract. Abdul Momen
Ltd. comments that during execution of DUTP works, they found variations to great extent in the bill of
quantity items. Due to the variation in quantities, they faced lot of problems to get approval, so BOQ
should have been prepared very carefully. Again, many changes were made at the time of execution, for
instance Kakrail, Mouchak, Malibagh, Ittefaq, etc intersections. They feel that there were lack of
coordination among RHD, DCC and DTCB to give clear-cut decision. The IRCON International Limited
also gave same comments. TANTIA Construction Co. Ltd. commented that implementation of such urban
transport project needs all sorts of cooperation from all concerned agencies to handle the works smoothly.




                                                      - 27 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                             - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Improved Traffic Flow along integrated     The traffic speed increased from 24 to 31     The overall traffic speed in Dhaka has
improvement corridors - avg. speed             kph along Mirpur Road Demonstration           increased from 15 kph to 22 kph because of
increased (Target at MTR: average speed on Corridor.                                         DUTP (source: STP 2005). Moreover, the
project corridors increased from 15 to 25                                                    capacity of Mirpur Road intersections has
kph)                                                                                         increased by at least 20% and travel time has
                                                                                             reduced by 75% for a total day (source:
                                                                                             DTCB Traffic Survey)
1.2 Improved public transport services along 20% to 190% increase in bus and minibus         Bus and minibus volumes have increased
integrated corridor - bus and minibus          traffic volume on Mirpur Road following the   during the last 5 years (2000 to 2005). For
ridership increased. (Target at MTR: bus and NMT-free conversion. Bus volume increased outer cordon line; (a) no. of large buses
minibus ridership increased by at least 15%) from 19% to 184%, and minibus volume            increased from 12,375 to 17,141 (39%), (b)
                                               increased from 21% to 196%.                   no. of minibuses increased from 20,038 to
                                                                                             40,371 (101%). For inner cordon line; (a) no.
                                                                                             of large buses increased from 10,055 to
                                                                                             17,878 (78%), (b) no. of minibuses increased
                                                                                             from 20,296 to 43,647 (115%).
2.1 Improved traffic safety, especially for    85% decrease in total accidents and 33%       Accidents decreased in DMA from 851
pedestrians, along integrated and other        decrease in fatal accidents on Mirpur Road in (2000) to 469 (2004), which was 50%
project corridors - number of pedestrian       the first 3 months following NMT-free         reduction. On Mirpur Road total accidents
related traffic accidents reduced. (Target at  conversion.                                   decreased by 85% and fatal accidents
MTR: pedestrian related traffic accidents                                                    decreased by 33%.
reduced by at least 10%)
2.2 Motor vehicle pollution reduced: (a) Lead; %decrease: (a) Lead: 60%; (b) PM10: 20%;      Lead level in air (PM2.5) declined by about
(b) PM10; (c) HC (Target at MTR: reduction (c) HC 20%                                        65% since the introduction of unleaded gas
in (a) Lead by 60-80%; (b) PM10 by 20-35%;                                                   in 1998. PM10 fell by 30% and PM2.5 by
(c) HC by 20-45%)                                                                            about 40% after withdrawal of 2-stroke
                                                                                             3-wheelers. However, air pollution is again
                                                                                             increasing mainly because of usage of old
                                                                                             diesel vehicles.
3. Better coordination and better integrated   DTCBoard meeting held regularly, following    The most recent DTCB Board meeting was
transport planning, management, and            approved Urban Transport Policy for DMA       held on May 25, 2005 to monitor the progress
implementation among responsible agencies                                                    of DUTP and completion of the remaining
in DMA, guided by the strategic directions set                                               works. Other issues discussed were
out by the DITS. (Target at MTR: N.A.)                                                       "DUTP-II" with STP recommendations,
                                                                                             present situation of DTCB and its transfer to
                                                                                             revenue budget, which is still under process.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
A1 (a) No. of Intersections and adjacent       (a) 29 intersections improved; (c) Parking    (a) 27 major intersections have been
roads improved; (b) parking policy drafted; (c)plans implemented at 2 locations.             channelized and installation of electronic
parking plans implemented at No. of                                                          traffic signals at 69 major intersections have
locations. (Target at MTR: 29 intersections                                                  been completed, (b) Parking policy has been
improved; parking policy drafted by MTR, and                                                 approved and under the project 22,000m2 of
parking plans implemented at 2 locations by                                                  parking facility has been created.
eop.)
A.2 (a) Length of Arterial roads               61 km rehabilitated/improved.                 Rehabilitation of 64 km arterial road has been
rehabilitated/improved (Target at MTR: 23 km                                                 completed. Rehabilitation of 40 km sidewalks
rehabilitated by MTR; 38 km improved by                                                      has been completed.
eop.)
A.3 Length of Integrated corridors developed 30 km                                           31.3 km of integrated corridor has been
and functional. (Target at MTR: upto 30km                                                    completed.
developed & functional by eop.)
A.4 No. of rehabilitated and private sector    2 terminals completed                         Improvement works for 3 inter-district bus
operated inter-district bus terminals (IDBTs).                                               terminals (Mohakhali, Gabtali and
(Target at MTR: 3 private sector operated                                                    Sayedabad) have been completed, and
rehabilitated terminals by eop.)                                                             private operators have been appointed.
A.5 Length of flood damaged roads              42 km completed                               Repair of 42 km flood damaged roads has




                                                                  - 29 -

rehabilitated. (Target at MTR: 18 km                                                           been completed.
rehabilitated by MTR; upto 50 km by eop.)
A.6 Flyovers: (a) constructed at Mahakhali;       (a) Mahakhali completed; (b) Jatrabari       (a) The construction of Mohakhali Flyover
(b) redesigned at Jathrabari. (Target at MTR:     re-designed                                  has been completed, (b) Jatrabari Flyover
Mohakhali FO constructed by eop.)                                                              has been cancelled, but taken up by DCC
                                                                                               under BOT.
B1.1 (a) TED created in DCC; (b) No. of           (c) 4 TED traffic engineers participating    (a) TED has been created at DCC, (b) 37
Traffic engineers trained; (c) No. participating hands-on in development of integrated traffic DCC personnel were trained including 17
in development of integrated traffic mgmt         management plans.                            from TED, (c) TED staff has participated in
plans (Target at MTR: TED created, 6 traffic                                                   NMT-free conversion, pedestrian corridor
engineers trained by MTR; participate                                                          and integrated corridor development
hands-on in development of traffic mgt plans                                                   packages. Overseas training for 140
by eop.)                                                                                       personnel and local training for 835
                                                                                               personnel has been done.
B.1.2 (a) Road Maintenance Group created          (b) 6 Maintenance engineers trained; (c)     (a) RM Group has been created, (b) 11+
in TED/DCC; (b) No. of Maintenance                Maintenance Management system                maintenance engineers trained in HQ and
Engineers trained; (c) Maintenance                developed.                                   Zones. 4 engineers from DCC have been
Management System developed. (Target at                                                        trained for Asset Management at the Univ. of
MTR: RMG created by MTR; 6 maint.                                                              Birmingham, (c) Maintenance Management
engineers trained by eop; Interim maint.                                                       System including RTMF Rules and SOP for
allocation framework developed by June 2002                                                    annual maintenance planning have been
and used to implement annual maint. plans                                                      developed and approved by DCC Mayor and
for FY02-03; Maintenance Mgt System                                                            the Ministry. RTMF accounts have been
developed by eop.)                                                                             functional since July 2003, recently
                                                                                               computerized.
B1.3 No. of Staff in PIUs provided hands-on 12 staff trained                                   15 PIU staff at DCC and 3 RHD staff worked
training in project supervision, monitoring and                                                with supervision consultant in contract
contract administration. (Target at MTR:                                                       administration activities. 2 staff from RHD
N.A.)                                                                                          and DCC received training.
B.1.4 (a) Financial Management System             (b) done by both DTCB and DCC                (a) Done, (b) Done by DTCB, DCC and
introduced in DTCB and DCC; (b) quarterly                                                      RHD.
PMRs prepared. (Target at MTR: as stated.)
B.1.5 (a) No. of Policemen added for traffic      (c) teams created, equipped and deployed in (a) 450 DMP traffic police trained, (b) DMP
management in DMA; (b) dedicated traffic          3 corridors                                  team consisting of additional 250 policemen
police team created, trained and deployed to                                                   have been created and successfully deployed
enforce traffic rules on No. of arterial corridor.                                             on NMT-free corridor and traffic enforcement
(Target at MTR: (a) 250 policemen added by                                                     at electronic traffic signals. Traffic
June 1999; (b) as stated by June 2002)                                                         enforcement equipment has been handed
                                                                                               over to DMP.
B.2.1 The DITS recommended transport              Strategy updated; Policy document drafted    Strategic Transport Plan (STP) is expected
development strategy updated and refined,         and under GoB review                         to be completed by October 2005.
urban transport planning tools developed,
and a policy document drafted. (Target at
MTR: as stated by eop.)

1 End of project

Project Design at Entry

    Narrative Summary                 Performance Indicators                    Monitoring &                   Assumption/Risk
                                                                                 Evaluation*
 CAS Objectives:                                                                                          GOAL to Bank Mission

 Accelerate economic
 growth and reduce poverty
 by among other measures:
 increasing both public and
 private investments in
 critical infrastructure areas,
 institutional strengthening,
 reforming regulatory
 framework and fostering
 participation of the poor in




                                                                     - 30 -

the growth process
Project Development                                                              DO to GOAL:
Objectives (DO):

1. Improve urban transport 1.1 Living and work           Economic surveys;       1.1 Future growth of the
services in an              environment in greater       Traffic surveys;        city is in conformity with
environmentally             Dhaka area improved;         Air quality surveys;    coordinated development
sustainable manner for      1.2 Road capacities          Bus transport study by  plans;
Dhaka residents, including  increased through traffic    mid-term review.        1.2 Implementing agencies
women and poor people.      management and                                       have the necessary
                            improvements/rehabilitatio                           resources and competent
                            n of road network;                                   staff to manage and
                            1.3 Pedestrian safety                                enforce traffic rules;
                            enhanced;                                            1.3 Suitable measures are
                            1.4 Bus services improved,                           put in place to control
                            providing better access to                           growth of 2-stroke
                            women and low-income                                 engines;
                            groups;                                              1.4 Incentives to allow the
                            1.5 Environmental pollution                          private sector to invest in
                            from 2-stroke                                        urban buses are in place.
                            auto-rickshaws, poor
                            quality buses and trucks
                            reduced.

2. Institutional and policy 2.1 GDTPCB adequately        Records of implementing 2.1 Relevant staff made
framework strengthened.     staffed and functional by    agency                  available for training and
                            July 31, 1999;                                       stays on the job for an
                            2.2 PCU and PIUs within                              extended period.
                            key agencies fully staffed
                            and functional;
                            2.3 Staff in implementing
                            agencies trained.

Project Outputs:                                                                 Output to DO:

1. Reduction in congestion  1.1 Average delay at most    Transport surveys;      1.1 Traffic management
and delays                  critical intersections       Records of implementing plans are implemented
                            reduced by 50% by the        agency                  1.2 Trained police force
                            end of project;                                      available during
                            1.2 Average speed by                                 construction phase for
                            motorized vehicles                                   traffic management
                            increased from 15 km/hour                            1.3 Land made available
                            to 30 km/hour by the end                             for developing parking
                            of project;                                          facilities and
                            1.3 Parking area plans                               complementary measures
                            prepared and implemented                             to ban/restrict parking in
                            at two locations by                                  the adjoining areas
                            mid-term review and four                             introduced;
                            locations by end of project.

2. Expansion of private bus 2.1 Premium bus services     PCU/PIU records;        2.1 Land for bus terminals
services                    introduced along 3           Transport surveys       provided by DCC
                            corridors by December                                2.2 Bus fares increased
                            1999 and 10 by August                                annually to keep pace with
                            2002;                                                inflation;
                            2.2 No. of buses in private                          2.3 Incentives provided by
                            sector in DMA increased                              the Government to import
                            from the present 1600                                both diesel and CNG buses
                            approximately to 2500 by
                            end of project;
                            2.3 Average waiting time
                            for buses at key bus stops
                            reduced by at least 30% by
                            2002;
                            2.4 At least one private
                            sector bus depot to be set
                            up by December 2000 and




                                                      - 31 -

                             three by December 2002.

3. Pedestrian facilities     3.1 40 kms of sidewalks         Data collected by project 3.1 Sidewalks kept clear of
improved                     constructed during project      agency                    illegal encroachments and
                             period;                                                   maintained
                             3.2 Three pedestrian foot
                             over-bridges constructed
                             by December 2001; and
                             about 7 more by December
                             2002.

4. Implementation capacity 4.1 10 engineers trained in Training records of             4.1 Technical staff made
strengthened in DCC, BRTA DCC by 2001;                       implementing agency       available for training
and DMP                      4.2 250 policemen added
                             for traffic management by
                             June 30, 1999;
                             4.3 At least 75% of the
                             total traffic police staff in
                             DMA trained by December
                             2000;
                             4.4 5 transport
                             professionals trained in
                             BRTA by mid-term review.

5. Roads are rehabilitated   5.1 Advanced road works         Implementation records    5.1 DCC staff use new skills
and maintained including     completed by December                                     Adequate funds are made
road safety improvements     2000 and 10 km per year                                   available for maintenance
                             till the end of project;
                             5.2 Drainage improved at
                             20 intersections by 2002
                             and two flyovers by 2003.

6. Vehicle-related pollution 6.1 Roadside emission           BRTA baseline statistics  6.1 Emission systems
reduced                      checks performed on at          and regular follow-up     designed and in place by
                             least 3000 auto rickshaws       surveys and DoE           June 1999
                             and 500 bus/trucks every        measurements              6.2 Government will
                             year from year 2001, and                                  continue to enforce ban on
                             statistics compiled;                                      2-stroke three wheelers
                             6.2 Importation into                                      and not allow more
                             Bangladesh of two-stroke                                  polluting industries to be
                             engine three wheelers and                                 located in Dhaka city.
                             reconditioned buses,
                             banned by July 01, 2000;
                             6.3 New and in-use vehicle Draft standards
                             standards by type, to be
                             developed by June 30,
                             2000;
                             6.4 Phasing out from
                             Dhaka all existing
                             two-stroke engine
                             three-wheelers by January
                             01, 2003.

7. Address long-term         7.1 Long-term urban             PCU/PIU records           7.1 Close involvement of all
transport planning issues    transport plan developed                                  agencies responsible for
for Dhaka metropolitan       by 2002;                                                  urban growth and traffic
area                         7.2 Plans to improve                                      planning.
                             commuter rail and IWT
                             developed by end of 2002.

Project Components

Physical investments

1. Civil works for traffic   1.1 Around 30 intersections PIU progress reports          1. Procurement: Timely
management                   improved;                                                 land acquisition,
                             1.2 Medians, road signs,                                  procurement of works and




                                                          - 32 -

                                    bus laybys constructed;                                                  equipment, and
                                    pavements rehabilitated                                                  appointment of
                                    etc.;                                                                    consultants;
                                    1.3 Completing 60 kms of                                                 2. Financing: Sufficient
                                    main road improvement,                                                   counterpart funds;
                                    including Tongi link road;                                               3. Construction Adequate
                                    1.4 Completing                                                           supervision, and cost and
                                    rehabilitation of flood                                                  quality control on works.
                                    damaged roads (about 200
                                    kms) in DMA.

2. Facilities for NMT               2.1 Secondary road links
improved                            for NMT constructed at
                                    three locations, to improve
                                    NMT network;
                                    2.2 Underpasses for
                                    facilitating NMT movement
                                    constructed at 3 locations;
                                    2.3 Parking facilities for
                                    NMT on secondary roads
                                    improved.

3. Grade separated                  3.1 Two facilities
interchange facilities              constructed at Jatrabari
constructed                         and Mohakhali.

Equipment and Vehicles

1. Equipment and vehicles           1.1 Equipment and vehicles
procured for                        procured for
implementing/project                DCC/DMP/BRTA/DOE and
agencies.                           GDTPCB

Technical Assistance and
Project Support

1. Provide technical                1.1 DSM Consultants
assistance for                      appointed to oversee
implementation, policy              further design, project
support, institutional              supervision and
development and follow-up monitoring;
project preparation.                1.2 Consultants for
                                    institutional support and
                                    training for DCC, BRTA,
                                    DMP, RAJUK, GDTPCB
                                    appointed by September
                                    1999;
                                    1.3 DMP trained in traffic
                                    control and at least 75% of
                                    the DMP traffic police
                                    trained by 2001;
                                    1.4 Long-term strategic
                                    transport plan developed
                                    by 2002;
                                    1.5 Feasibility Study of
                                    Dhaka Ring Road, and
                                    preliminary engineering
                                    and feasibility of follow-up
                                    project (DUTP-2)
                                    completed by December
                                    2002.

* Note: Some benchmarks will be established within 6 months of project approval by IDA, with the help of DSM consultants.




                                                                    - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                       US$ million  US$ million
A. TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                                     50.10         29.41           58.7
   - Intersection Improvements
   - Road Improvements adj. to Intersection
   - Traffic Flow Improvements
   - Parking Facilities
B. ROAD IMPROVEMENTS                                      30.70         27.88           90.8
   - Road Works
   - Tongi Link Road Construction
C. BUS & ROUTE IMPROVEMENTS                                2.70           0.00
   - Bus Only Lanes (cancelled)
   - Bus Stops and Others (merged into B)
D. REHABILITATION OF BUS TERMINALS                        17.20           8.32          48.4
   - Works at Bus Terminals
   - Road Works adj. to Bus Terminals (cancelled)
E. PEDESTRIAN FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS                        5.40           5.30          98.2
   - Construction of Footbridges
   - Constructions/improvements of Sidewalks
F. NMT NETWORK IMPROVEMENTS                                5.30           0.00
   - Secondary Road Links (merged into B)
   - NMT Underpasses (cancelled)
G. GRADE SEPARATED INTERCHANGES                           46.80         18.92           40.4
   - Jatrabari Flyover (cancelled)
   - Mohakhali Flyover
H. FLOOD DAMAGE REHABILITATION OF ROADS                   20.00           5.22          26.1
I. EQUIPMENT                                              10.90           4.49          41.2
   - Dhaka City Corporation (DCC)
   - Dhaka Metropolitan Police Department (DMP)
   - Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA)
   - Dhala Transport Coordination Board (DTCB)
   - DoE (cancelled)
J. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                   34.40         15.10           43.9
   - Project Preparation and Support
   - Institutional Development and Training
   - Policy Support and Studies
K. RESETTLEMENT COSTS                                     10.70           4.88          45.6
   - Land Acquisition and Compensation for PAP
   - Other Resettlement Activities
L. MISCELLANEOUS                                           0.00           5.39

Total Baseline Cost                                      234.20        124.91
                          Total Project Costs            234.20        124.91
                   Total Financing Required              234.20        124.91



                                                - 34 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              128.20             50.00               0.00             0.00             178.20
                                      (96.00)           (37.50)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (133.50)
2. Goods                               8.60               0.00               2.30             0.00              10.90
                                      (6.40)             (0.00)             (1.70)           (0.00)             (8.10)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              34.40             0.00              34.40
TA, Studies & Training                (0.00)             (0.00)            (34.00)           (0.00)            (34.00)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               1.40             0.00              1.40
Resettlement - Other Costs            (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.30)           (0.00)             (1.30)
5. Land Acquisition &                  0.00               0.00               0.00             9.30              9.30
Compensation                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   Total                              136.80             50.00              38.10             9.30             234.20
                                     (102.40)           (37.50)            (37.00)           (0.00)           (176.90)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               54.20             40.90              0.00             0.00             95.10
                                      (40.60)           (30.70)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (71.30)
2. Goods                               1.80               2.70              0.00             0.00              4.50
                                      (1.60)             (2.40)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (4.00)
3. Services                            13.30              0.20              1.50             0.00             15.00
TA, Studies & Training                (13.30)            (0.20)            (1.30)            (0.00)           (14.80)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              5.71             0.00              5.71
Resettlement - Other Costs            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.30)            (0.00)           (0.30)
5. Land Acquisition &                  0.00               0.00              4.60             0.00              4.60
Compensation                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               69.30             43.80             11.81             0.00             124.91
                                      (55.50)           (33.30)            (1.60)            (0.00)           (90.40)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 35 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                  Percentage of Appraisal
      Component             Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                        IDA        Govt.      CoF.     IDA       Govt.       CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
A. TRAFFIC              37.60     12.50                22.06      7.35             58.7    58.8
MANAGEMENT
B. ROAD                 23.10      7.60                20.91      6.97             90.5    91.7
IMPROVEMENTS
C. BUS & ROUTE          2.00       0.70                0.00       0.00             0.0     0.0
IMPROVEMENTS
D. REHABILITATION OF    12.80      4.40                6.24       2.08             48.8    47.3
EXISTING BUS
TERMINALS
E. PEDESTRIAN           4.00       1.40                3.97       1.32             99.3    94.3
FACILITY
IMPROVEMENTS
F. NMT NETWORK          4.00       1.30                0.00       0.00             0.0     0.0
IMPROVVEMENTS
G. GRADE SEPARATION     35.10     11.70                14.19      4.73             40.4    40.4
INTERCHANGES
H. FLOOD DAMAGE         15.00      5.00                3.91       1.30             26.1    26.0
REHABILITATION OF
ROADS
I. EQUIPMENT            8.10       2.80                3.83       0.66             47.3    23.6
J. TECHINCAL            34.00      0.40                14.86      0.24             43.7    60.0
ASSISTANCE
K. RESETTLEMENT         1.30       9.40                0.28       4.60             21.5    48.9
COSTS
L. MISCELLANEOUS        0.00       0.00                0.30       5.11             0.0     0.0
GRAND TOTAL            177.00     57.20                90.55     34.36             51.2    60.1




                                               - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Evaluation in Project Appraisal Document

In the PAD, the economic analysis was conducted at two levels. At the first level, total project benefits
were evaluated against the cost of all physical components, equipment and technical assistance (excluding
follow-up studies and including physical contingencies), which constitutes 87% of total project cost. In
particular, the road network traffic benefits were evaluated using a network-based travel demand model.
At the second level, detailed economic analysis was performed for each of the major physical components:
20 intersection improvements, 2 flyovers, 3 inter-district bus terminal rehabilitation, NMT underpasses,
and road rehabilitation.     These analyses were conducted for assessing the economic viability of the
individual components treated as stand-alone projects.

The quantified benefits included savings in vehicle operation costs and travel time costs. These were
computed for existing traffic, induced traffic (traffic generated by lower trip costs) and diverted traffic
(redistribution of traffic resulting from traffic diverted from alternate routes and modes because of changes
in relative trip costs). While the project expected to result in considerable benefits in the form of improved
traffic safety and reduced auto pollution, they were not quantified due to shortage of reliable data. The
estimated ERRs, therefore, were conservative and represent the low-end of total realizable benefits.

The costs of each component included costs for physical works, detailed engineering design,
implementation supervision, and physical contingencies. Annualized operations and maintenance costs
were also included in the evaluation. Moreover, the costs to road users associated with loss of road or
junction capacity during project implementation were included in the evaluation. A standard conversion
factor of 0.9, which was the latest World Bank estimate for Bangladesh, was used to convert financial costs
to economic costs. For physical components, annual maintenance cost was assumed to be 0.5% of capital
cost, and periodic (every 6 years) maintenance cost, 3% of capital cost. Assumed project life was 30 years
for major structures and 20 years for road works. Moreover, the levels of annual benefits were set to
freeze at the time when traffic growth reaches capacity (approximately 10 years after implementation).

Both network and intersection traffic simulation models were used to simulate traffic performance under
scenarios with and without project. Traffic data were based on city-wide household surveys and traffic
counts conducted in 1992-93, which were updated in 1997 for the purpose of project evaluation.
Additional data sources on bus delays at bus terminals and waiting time at bus stops were also used for the
analysis.

Unit vehicle operating costs by vehicle type and passenger travel time costs by mode were updated based
on the findings of previous studies in Dhaka and more widely for Bangladesh. Value of travel time for
business trip purpose was assumed to be 100% of trip maker's hourly income, and 35% for other trip
purpose. The resulting value of travel time by a given mode for all purpose combined was roughly 50% of
average hourly income of the users of this mode.

Economic Evaluation at Completion

The method of the economic analysis at completion was centered upon the use of the urban transport
planning model developed for the STP study. In assessing the various components, the networks were built
for the "with-project" case and the "without-project" case. The model was run for both cases resulting in
an estimation of the effects which the addition of the complements would have on travel in the project
affected area.     This method was adopted for the Mohakhali Flyover, Intersection Improvements,



                                                      - 37 -

Inter-District Bus Terminal Improvements and Integrated Corridor Developments. The assessment for the
Flood Damage Rehabilitation used a traditional approach by estimating incremental capital cost savings of
rehabilitating the flood damaged roads and calculating changes in vehicle operating cost savings and time
savings due to road improvements. This was because the flood component links were minor residential
roads and not included in the STP strategic network.

The vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings will accrue due to shorter trip lengths and lower levels of
congestion.    The VOC savings linked to shorter trip lengths was measured by multiplying vehicle
kilometers of travel (VKT) in the "with" and "without" project scenarios by a weighted average of VOC per
km based on the figures. The average VOC per km has been calculated for public transit and private
vehicles considering the vehicle composition on the road network. Figures for 2004 and 2024 were derived
from the model runs and the figures for all years in between were interpolated.

The value of time savings accounts for a major share of the project's benefits.          The reduction in
vehicle-hours spent on the road network was assessed for both the public transit modes and the private
vehicles using the STP model. A weighted average travel time cost was calculated and then multiplied the
weighted average cost by the number of vehicle-hours. This resulted in the overall travel time costs in the
"with" and "without" project situations. As in the case of VOC estimation, the travel time cost was
calculated for 2004 and 2024, and then interpolated for the in-between years.

The following assumptions were made when carrying out the economic analysis:
- A 20 year analysis period was considered with 2004 being the base year and 2024 as the terminal year.
- At the terminal year a residual or salvage value of 15% has been taken for assets with life of 20 years or
  more.
- Constant vase year prices have been used for economic evaluation. All the future costs and benefits
  relating to the project were at 2004 prices.

The project cost comprised the costs relating to physical works, fees for consultancy services, land and
resettlement costs plus a contingency. The impact of maintenance costs was significant in the case of the
Flood Component. For other project components the impact was marginal. The present practice for
periodic maintenance for city roads is about every 4 years. Based on the rehabilitation works being carried
out by DCC with regard to flood affected roads, the periodic maintenance cost was taken as 60% of the
capital cost for "without" project scenario. The cost appears to be substantial and relates to rehabilitation
works, which were considered every 5th year.

For the "with" project scenario, the future periodic maintenance cost was assumed to reduce to 70% of the
existing level (i.e. 42% of capital cost). Also, since the savings in VOC are the difference between IRI8
and IRI4, a provision for higher annual maintenance cost at 2% of capital cost has been provided. This is
in addition to the periodic maintenance cost indicated above. The annual and periodic maintenance cost for
other project components was 1% and 3% respectively.

The ERR values at appraisal and those at completion have some differences partly due to the difference in
cost. However, the level of ERR for each component at completion shows a satisfactory level, and the
achieved values at completion are not very much different from those at appraisal; those are reasonably
supporting the intended economic benefits at appraisal.




                                                    - 38 -

Cost-Benefit Analysis Results for Major Physical Components: Comparison between at-appraisal and
at-completion

         Project Components                     Values at Appraisal                    Values at Completion
                                          Project Cost             ERR             Project Cost        ERR
                                         (US$ million)                            (US$ million)
 Mojor Physical Components
 Mohakhali Flyover                                  21.2                 19%                 25.9        16.98%
 Jatrabari Flyover                                  16.4                 20%         (Cancelled)      (Cancelled)
 Intersection Improvements                          26.0                 28%                  9.7        23.94%
 Inter-District Bus Terminals                       14.5                 17%                 10.6        34.35%
 NMT Underpasses                                      3.6                18%         (Cancelled)      (Cancelled)
 Integrated Corridor                                24.1                 38%                 51.6        39.68%
 Development                                        16.8                 38%                  6.5        26.63%
 Flood Damage Rehabilitation
                  Total                            122.6                 27%                104.3        29.11%
Note: Jatrabari Flyover, NMT Underpasses were dropped from the project components at Mid-term Review.




                                                        - 39 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/07/1995                6    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             TRANSP, SAFETY & TRAFFIC
                                             ENGR. (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             INST. DEV. SPEC. (1);
                                             TRANSP. ENGR. (1); TRANSP.
                                             MGMT. SPEC. (1).
              07/18/1996                5    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             TRANSP. ENGR. (1); PUBLIC
                                             SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                                             SR.TRANSP. ENG. (1); SR.
                                             COMM. OFFR. (1).
              03/13/1997              11     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             TRANSP., SAFETY &
                                             TRAFFIC ENGRS. (3);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPEC.(1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPEC. (1); SR. URBAN SPEC.
                                             (1); PUBLIC
                                             TRANSPORT/POLICY SPEC.
                                             (1); TRAFFIC MGMT.SPEC.
                                             (1); INST. DEV. SPEC. (1); SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFR. (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/11/1998              13     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             ENGR. & POCUREMENT
                                             (1); TRANSP & INST. SPL
                                             (1); TRANSP SPL (1);
                                             TRANSP ENGR (1); ENV
                                             SPL (1); RESETTLEMENT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT SPL
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT SPL
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPL (1)
              07/15/1998              15     MISSION LEADER (1); ENGR.
                                             & POCUREMENT (1); TRANSP
                                             & INST . SPL (1); TRANSP SPL
                                             (1); TRANSP ENGR (1); ENV
                                             SPL (1); RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPL (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPL (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPL (1)

 Supervision
              03/17/1999               13    MISSION LEADER (1); SR.



                                              - 40 -

                 TRANSPORT ENGR. (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                 URBAN PLANNING/SOC,
                 ENV. SPEC. (1); GENDER
                 SPEC. (1); SOC.
                 SCIENTIST (1);
                 ECONOMIC ANALYST
                 (1); OPERATIONS OFFR.
                 (1); TRANSPORT ENGR.
                 (1); RESETTLEMENT
                 SPEC. (1);
                 DISBURSEMENT OFFR.
                 (2) FINANCIAL MGMT.
                 SPEC. (1)
06/30/1999    7  MISSION LEADER (1); PROJ.
                 COORDINATOR/ECONOMIC
                 ANALYST (1); ENGR. (1);
                 DISBURSEMENT OFFR. (1);
                 PROC. SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                 MGMT. SPEC. (1); SOCIAL
                 ASSESSMENT (1)
12/15/1999    15 MISSION LEADER (1);          U    S
                 PROCURMENT SPEC. (1);
                 URBAN PLANNING, SOCIAL
                 & ENV. SPEC. (1); ECONOMIC
                 ANALYST (1); TRANSPORT
                 PLANNER (1);
                 ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1);
                 SOC. SCIENTIST (2);
                 ECONOMIC ANALYST (1);
                 ENGR. (1); RESETTLEMENT
                 (1); DISBURSEMENT OFFR.
                 (2); FINANCIAL MGMT. (2);
07/12/2000    8  INSTITUTIONAL DEV. (1);      S    S
                 HIGHWAY ENGR. (1); CIVIL
                 ENGR. (1); TRANSPORT
                 ENGR. (1); TRANSPORT.
                 ECON. (1); RESETTLEMENT
                 (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                 FINANCIAL MGMT. (1)
06/06/2001    8  TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);      S    S
                 URBAN TRANSPORT SPEC.
                 (1); SR. TRANSPORT
                 ENGINEER (1); HIGHWAY
                 ENGINEER (1); SOCIAL
                 SCIENTIST (1); FINANCIAL
                 MANAGEMENT (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); DISBURSEMENT
                 SPECIALIS (1)
05/30/2002    10 MISSION LEADER (1);          U    U
                 TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                 IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);



                 - 41 -

                 OFFICE ADMN. (1);
                 SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                 FINANCIAL MGT SPEC. (1);
                 DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1);
                 TRAFFIC ENG.(CONSULT) (1);
                 ENV. SPEC (CONSULTANT)
                 (1)
12/03/2002    10 TASK LEADER (1);             U    S
                 TRANSPORT ENGINEER (2);
                 OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR
                 (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); FINANCIAL
                 MANAGEMENT S (1);
                 DISBURSEMENT (1);
                 TRAFFIC ENGINEER (1);
                 ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                 (1)
06/26/2003    9  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        U    S
                 TRANSPORT ENGINEER (2);
                 OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR
                 (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); FINANCIAL
                 MANAGEMENT S (1);
                 TRAFFIC ENGINEER (1);
                 ENVIRONMENTAL S (1)
01/13/2004    9  TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                 TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                 OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR
                 (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                 SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                 ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                 (1); PROCUREMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                 MGMT SPECIAL (1); TRAFFIC
                 ENGINEER (1)
07/14/2004    13 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                 TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                 TRAFFIC ENGINEER (1);
                 TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                 FM SPECIALIST (1);
                 SOCIALOGIST (1);
                 ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                 (1); PROCUREMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                 ANALYST (1); OFFICE
                 ADMINISTRATOR (1);
                 SOCIAL PROTECTION SPEC
                 (1); DISBURSEMENT SPEC (1)
03/03/2005    12 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        U    U



                 - 42 -

                                           TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                                           TRAFFIC ENGINEER (1);
                                           TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                           TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           FM SPECIALIST (1);
                                           SOCIALOGIST (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                                           ANALYST (1); OFFICE
                                           ADMINISTRATOR (1);
                                           SOCIAL PROTECTION SPEC
                                           (1)
               09/18/2005              3   TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);           S    S
                                           TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                                           PROJECT ANALYST (1)

 ICR
               10/27/2005             4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            TRANSPORT ENGINEER
                                            (1); PROJECT ANALYST
                                            (1); SOCIAL
                                            PROTECTION SPEC (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         158.40                          635.54
  Appraisal/Negotiation                70.40                         135.16
  Supervision                        435.85                          788.60
  ICR                                  11.47                          32.45
  Total                              676.12                        1,591.75




                                            - 43 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document, Dhaka Urban Transport Project, December 17, 1998

2. Confirmed copy of the Development Credit Agreement, Dhaka Urban Transport Project, February
   17, 1999

3. Preparation mission reports.

4. Supervision mission reports.

5. Project Status Reports/Implementation Status and Results

6. Mid-term Review mission reports.

7. Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) results, January 2003

8. Mid-term Review Report, Dhaka Urban Transport Project; PD-DTCB, January-February 2002

9. Country Assistance Strategy for Bangladesh Progress Report, June 30, 2003




                                              - 46 -

- 47 -

