Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3163 BD
Project Agreement
(Dhaka Urban Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DHAKA CITY CORPORATION
Dated February 17, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3163 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 17, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and DHAKA CITY CORPORATION (DCC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred twenty-nine million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 129,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that DCC agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and DCC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to DCC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS DCC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Page  2
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) DCC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts A (other than A.8) and C.1 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for its part of the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and DCC shall otherwise agree, DCC shall carry out its 
part of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) DCC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and its part of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, DCC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and DCC, a plan for the future 
operation of its part of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with DCC on said plan.
Section 2.04. DCC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DCC shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) DCC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of its part of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
DCC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its part of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by DCC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DCC
Section 3.01. DCC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. DCC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and administrative practices.
Section 3.03. DCC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
Page  3
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DCC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) DCC 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
in respect of its part of the Project for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements in respect of its 
part of the Project for such year as so audited and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, DCC shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to 
enable DCC, not later than June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, 
each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, DCC shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
DCC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
Page  4
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify DCC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
       64145 (MCI)
For Dhaka City Corporation:
Nagar Bhaban 
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Telex
672801 MOLRG BJ 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of DCC may be 
taken or executed by its Mayor or such other person or persons as its Mayor shall 
designate in writing, and DCC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Frederick T. Temple
Country Director, Bangladesh
Page  5
DHAKA CITY CORPORATION
By /s/ Rashidul Alam
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program 
1.
DCC shall timely implement an Action Plan, satisfactory to the Association, for 
the carrying out of the Project. 
2.
DCC shall promptly establish and thereafter maintain and operate a suitably 
staffed Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in DCC, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, inter alia, direct reporting to 
the Mayor or the Chief Executive Officer of DCC and, in order to avoid delays, direct 
clearance by the latter of payments to contractors, consultants and suppliers.
3.
DCC shall:
(a)
prepare by December 1, 1999 a plan, satisfactory to the Association, for 
(i) improving management of the bus terminals rehabilitated under the Project and 
(ii) recovering adequate charges from the users of such terminals; and
(b)
thereafter carry out in a timely manner the recommendations of such plan 
that the Borrower and the Association shall have agreed upon.
4.
Without any limitation to the generality of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, DCC 
shall:
(a)
provide at least 10% of the cost of the parts of the Project to be 
carried out by DCC (except Part C.1) through a separate Project Account to be 
established by DCC and replenished quarterly based on expected Project expenditures; 
and
(b)
promptly provide its part of the annual funding requirements for the Road 
and Traffic Maintenance Fund established under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.
5.
DCC shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association by March 31, 1999, and by March 31 
of each year thereafter, for review and comments, a maintenance plan for roads and 
traffic facilities in respect of the succeeding fiscal year; and
(b)
thereafter implement such plan in a timely manner, taking into account 
the Association’s comments thereof. 6.
DCC shall take all actions necessary on its 
part to enable the Borrower to comply with paragraphs 8, 9, 10 and 11 of Schedule 4 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
7.
DCC shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of its part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of its part of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its part of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
Page  6
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its 
part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
