RESTRICTED
Report No. PS-7a
T1h report is for offiil use only by the Bank Group and specificaly authorized orpnizations
or persons. It may not be pubibhed, quoted or cted without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept raponibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
June 3, 1971
Special Projects Department



CURRENCY
Guyanese Dollars (GS)
US$1        a G$2
G$1         - us$o.50
G$1,000,000 = US$500,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (British Syateu)
1 inch (in)          = 25.4 millimeters (mm)
12 in                  1 foot (ft)
5,260 ft               1 mile (mi)
= 1.609 kilometer (km)
1 acre (ac)          = 43,560 sq ft
0 O.405 hectares (ha)
1 sq mile            =640 ac
= 2.590 sq km
= 258.99 ha
1 long ton (ton)    = 2,240 pounds (lb)
= 1.016 metric tons (mi ton)
ABBREVIATIONS USED IN REPORT
GD                     Georgetown Datum
MoWH                   Ministry of Works and Hydraulics,
Guyana (now MoWH&S)
MoWH&S                 Ministry of Works, Hydraulics &
Supply, Guyana; fonmerly MoWH
UK                     United Kingdom
UNDP/SF                United Nations Development Program
(Special Fund)



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................                 i
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................                  1
II.  BACKGROUND .........         ...................................         2
III. THE PROJECT AREA ......................................                  3
A.  Greater Georgetown ..............................                 3
B.  Future Prospects for Urban Development ..........                 4
C.  Existing Sea Defenses ...........................                 5
D.  Consequences of a Breach in the Sea Defenses                      7
IV.  THE PROJECT ...........................................                  8
A.  Project Description ...... ..............                         8
B. Construction of Sea Defenses                ..                     9
C.  Project Cost .................... ................               12
D.  Project Financing            ................                    13
E.  Organization and Management .......... ...........               14
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION . ............... .... .. ... ..............        15
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................                 17
This report was prepared by Messrs. G. A. McBride and K. D. Kikuchi (econo-
mists) of the Special Projects Department, and Mr. R. Y. Scheiner (engineer)
of the Transportation Projects Department.



ANNEXES
1.      Coastal Erosion and Sea Defenses
2.      The Twelve-Year Sea Defense Program
Table 1 - The Twelve-Year Sea Defense Program
3.      Table 1 - National Accounts 1966-1970
Table 2 - Exports by Selected Commodities 1966-1970
4.      Protected Area Survey and Valuation
5.      Traffic on Sea Wall Road and Alternative Route
6.      Cost Estimate
7.      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.      Economic Benefits of the Project
Table 1 - Foreshore Data by Sea Defense Section
Table 2 - Valuation of Expected Property Damage
Table 3 - Benefit-Cost Streams
Table 4 - Summary of Economic Evaluation
FIGURES
1.     Proposed Cross Section
2.      Tide Curves
3.      Project Implementation Schedule
4.      Organization of Ministry of Works, Hydraulics and Supply
MAPS
1.      Guyana
2.      Sea Defense Program East Demerara Coast
3.      Sea Defense Program West Demerara Coast
4.      Greater Georgetown Land Use Categories
5.      1763 Waterfront and Existing Sea Wall
6.      Project Area Identification



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the rehabilitation and con-
struction of sea defenses protecting important sections of Georgetown, the
capital of Guyana, from possible tidal inundation. Georgetown's waterfront,
like the rest of Guyana's coast, is below high tide level and is subject to
cyclic erosion and accretion of the foreshore which recurs roughly every
thirty years. In the 1962 UNDP/SF financed hydrographic survey, for which
the Bank was the Executing Agency, it was predicted that the next cycle of
erosion of Georgetown's foreshore would start sometime after 1973 and last
until 1985. The foundation of the existing sea defenses is considered
too shallow to withstand the anticipated lowering of the foreshore level
during the coming erosion cycle. As foreshore erosion takes place, the
danger is that the foundation will be undermined, and that the sea defense
will collapse under its own weight and breach.
ii.       Currently, the Government is executing the sea defenses in the
Districts of East Coast Demerara and West Coast Demerara for protecting the
fertile agricultural lands. These works, which are a part of Phase I of
the Twelve-Year Sea Defense Program (1968-1979), are being financed under
Bank Loan 559-GUA (1969) and are progressing satisfactorily. The Govern-
ment had originally requested that financing for the Georgetown sea defenses,
which were also a part of the Phase I of the Twelve-Year Sea Defense Program,
be included in Loan 559-GUA. The Bank did not accept the Government's pro-
posal because the engineering of the Georgetown sea defenses was incomplete.
It did agree, however, to finance the cost of completing the engineering
studies. The Netherlands Engineering Consultants (NEDECO), the consultants
appointed for the project, have now completed the feasibility studies of
the Georgetown sea defenses and the Government has again requested Bank
assistance in financing the construction of these works.
iii.      The proposed project includes:  (a) major rehabilitation of 6,830
feet of existing sea defenses, and construction of 1,570 feet of newly
designed sea defenses to protect Georgetown, (b) construction of a diversion
road to facilitate the rehabilitation of sea defenses; (c) rehabilitation of
eight drainage outfalls; (d) consultant services for detailed engineering,
preparation of tender documents and construction supervision; (e) procure-
ment of floating craft (2 tugs of 450 HP and 9 pontoons of 250-500 tons ca-
pacity) for the transport of stone; (f) construction of a slipway for the
maintenance of floating craft; and (g) purchase of steel sheet piles and
equipment for use under the Sea Defense Program.
iv.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at about
US$6.8 million equivalent. The proposed loan amounting to about US$5.4
million equivalent would cover the foreign exchange cost of the project,



- ii -
estimated at about US$5.0 million equivalent, and interest during construc-
tion under the Bank loan amounting to about US$0.4 million equivalent. The
Government would finance the local costs of the project amounting to about
US$1.8 million equivalent. The Government has also established acceptable
procedures for future maintenance and operation of the sea defenses.
v.        All the project works, except the diversion road, would be carried
out on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
normal Bank procedures for procurement. The Government has proposed to con-
struct the diversion road through force account as the work is relatively
small (total estimated cost about US$0.2 million equivalent) and has to be
completed prior to the construction of the main works. In view of the ur-
gency of this work the Government's proposal is acceptable.
vi.       Without the proposed project, it is estimated that there might be
some six breaches in the existing sea defenses during the coming erosion
cycle. The direct benefits of the project are measured in terms of savings
in (a) the costs of closing the breaches and repairing the damage to sea
defenses, and (b) property damages that the breaches would cause before they
are closed. The internal economic rate of return from these direct bene-
fits alone is estimated at over 30%. In addition to these benefits, the
project will (a) remove the threat of permanent inundation of the coastal
land and permit the long range urban development of the Gtorgetown area,
and (b) prevent prolonged and serious disruption of the ec:onomic and social
activities in Georgetown.
vii.      The Government has retained consultants for detailed engineering,
preparation of tender documents and supervision of construction; NEDECO
(Netherlands) for works on the Georgetown sea defenses, and Sir William
lialcrow and Partners (UK) for the rehabilitation of the eight drainage
outfalls. These consultants will also assist the Ministry of Works, Hy-
draulics and Supply (MoWII&S), which is responsible for the planning, con-
struction, and maintenance of sea defenses, in training the staff of the
Ministry in various aspects of the design and supervision of the works.
viii.     Principal agreements reached during negotiations are stated in
Chapter VI. The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$5.4 million equivalent to the Government of Guyana. The loan would
be repayable over 25 years, including a five-year grace period.



APPRAISAL OF
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The entire coastline of Guyana (Map 1) is below high tide level
and is subject to a cyclic erosion and accretion phenomenon (Annex 1),
wlhich recurs at any given location at an interval of about 30 years.  Each
cycle has resulted in a net erosion of the foreshore. The foundations
of the existing sea defenses at Georgetown, which were constructed some
60 years ago, do not extend deep enough into the foreshore to withstand
the next erosion period whiiclh is expected to begin sometime after 1973
and last until 1985. UInless immediate action is taken to improve the
sea defenses, they are in danger of being undermined by erosion and
breaclhed. The proposed project is dlesigned to improve the sea defenses
and protect Georgetown, the capital of Guyana, from the tidal inundation
that would result.
1.02      In 1962, D)elft tlydraulics Laboratory, in cooperation with
Netherlands Engineering Consultants (NEDECO), carried out an investigation
of the coastal sea defenses under a UNDP/SF financed project for which the
Bank was the Executing Agency. While appraising the Development Program
of Guyana in 1966, a Bank mission reviewed Guyana's Development Program
for Sea Defenses. 1/  The mission noted that the Government had deferred
reconstruction and maintenance of sea defenses, due to limnited funds, and
recommended that the annual expenditure for their reconstruction and main-
tenance should be increased from G$2 million to G$4-5 million. It also
recommended that alternative designs should be studied to provide a more
permanent solution against erosion and damage.
1.03      In 1967, the Ministry of Works and Hydraulics (MoWH) 2/ prepared
a Twelve-Year Sea Defense Program for the period 1968-79 (Annex 2) and, in
March 1968, the Governmernt of Guyana requested the Bank and the UK to as-
sist in financing Plhase I of the program. This first phase included the
construction of new sea walls on existing earth embankments in East coast
Demerara (Map 2), similar works in West coast Demerara (Map 3), and new sea
defenses in front of the Georgetown esplanade. A Bank mission appraised
the program in May 1968.  It recommenided a loan of US$5 million to help
finance the sea defense works in East and West Coasts Demerara, but not for
the Georgetown works, as their engineering was incomplete.  The loan, however,
which was made in Septemiber 1968 (Loan 559--CUA), included financing for studies
for the sea defenses at Ceorgetown.
1/   An appraisal of the Development Program of Guyana (Report No. WH-169),
April 21, 1967.
2/   Now the Ministry of Works, llydraulics an(d Supply (MoWIE&S).



- 2 -
1.04      The execution of the works under Loan 559--GtA was delayed because
of difficulties in selecting consultants and later because of delays in
choosing contractors. Constructioni of the works, however, started in June
1970 and progressed satisfactorily accordinig to a revised schedule. As of
May 1971, 22% of the funds provided under the loan had been disbursed.
NEI)FCO, the consultants for the studies for Georgetown sea defenses, coin-
pleted a report on the Feasibility Study of Georgetown Sea Defense in
September 1970, and the Government subsequently requleste(d Bank assistance
in financing the clefense works.
1.05      A Bank mission, consisting of Messrs. C.A. Mcfiride, K.D.
iKikuchi (economists), and R.Y. Scheiner (engineer), visited Guyana in
January/February 1971 to appraise the project.  This report is based on
the findinigs of the mission.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Guyana, an independent nation within the British Commonwealth
since 1966, is located on the nortli-central coast of South America. It
has an area of about 83,000 sq mi, which is about the same size as Great
Britain. Hlistorically, the economy of Guyana was based largely on export
earnings from sugar and rice (Annex 3). Since 1966, however, export earn-
ings from minerals, mainly bauxite products and alumina have surpassed
those of sugar and rice. The Gross Domestic Product at factor cost was
about G$473 million (US$236 million equivalent) in 1970, with a per cap-
ita income of roughly G$565 or US$282. About 40% of the labor force was
engaged in agriculture and mineral production, whiiclh accounited for over
97% of total earnings from merchlandise exports.
2.02      According to a preliminary census report, the population of
Guyana was 714,000 in April 1970, increasing at an average rate of 2.5%
per annum. The two major ethnic groups in Guyana are the Last Indians
and the Negroes, which constitute 48% and 33% of the total population,
respectively. The remaining population is comprised of Amerindians,
Chinese, and Europeans. About 90% of Guyana's population is concentrated
in the fertile coastal plains where sugar and rice crops are grown.
These plains, which cover an area of about 2,500 sq mi or 3% of the total
land area, account for about 80% of the GDP.
2.03      Unemployment is a serious problem in Guyana.  The overall rate
is currently estimated at 12--14% with a much higher incidence among the
younger age groups.
2.04      Outside the coastal plains, thie only two important towns are
l3artica, the stone quarrying and inland trade center with a population of
about 10,000, and Linden (formerly Mackenzie), a bauxite mining town with
a poptulation of about 30,000 (Map 1).  Neither of these towns is expected
to grow rapidly because the quarryinig and mining industries (lo not provi(le
sufficient opportunities for new employment. In an effort to develop the
interior and encourage migration from the crowded coast and the Carribean



3.-
Islancls, the Covernment is building a "self-help" road through Annai and
Coodhope to Lethen, where it connects to a road from Boa Vista in Brazil.
hlowever, it will take some time before the road is completed and the econ-
omy of the interior is developed enough to stimulate migration to any sig-
nificant scale. In the meantime, concentration of population in the urban
areas of Guyana is expected to continue, especially in Georgetown and its
environs. The protection of Georgetown against erosion and tidal inundation
is therefore of vital importance to the economy of the whole country.
III. ThIE PROJECT AREA
A. Greater Georgetown 11
3.01      The proposed project is designed to improve the sea defense struc-
tures at Georgetown, the capital of Guyana, which is located at the mouth of
the Demerara River (Map 1). The Municipality of Georgetown, with an area of
about 2.5 sq mi, is bounded by the sea defenses between Fort Groyne and
Kitty Groyne in the north, the Demerara River in the west, Vlissengen Road
in the east, and the Repentier Cemetery in the south (Map 4). The Munici-
pality and the 15 communities surrounding it make up Greater Georgetown, a
compact urban area extending over a total area of about 6.5 sq mi. Although
the Municipal population decreased by about 10% during the past decade from
73,000 to 66,000, the population in the 15 surrounding communities increased
by almost 33%. The Municipal population density, however, is still very high,
estimated at about 26,000 persons per sq mi. The total population of Greater
Georgetowni is currently about 174,000 or about 23% of the entire population
of the country. Greater Georgetown is bounded on the east and south by a
greenbelt area established under the Agricultural Reservation (greenbelt)
Ordinance in 1949. This greenbelt has restricted the outward growth of the
urban area, and thus there has been a high concentration of development
within Greater Georgetown, causing rapid increases in real estate values.
3.02      Greater Georgetown, like the rest of the coastal plains, is flat
and lies below the high tide level.  Within the urban area there is sligbt
change in elevation, the southern part being on the average 2 to 3 feet
higher than the northern part. Greater Georgetown is laid out in a rigid
grid pattern, except for the southern and eastern sections which, until re-
cently, were sugar plantations. The street system parallels the old rectan-
gular pattern of the canal system of the sugar plantations.  In the 18th
century, most of the urban development was concentrated north of the rail-
road, extending approximately a third of a mile beyond the existing sea de-
fenses (Map 5). Erosion has since forced the urban area to be expanded
southwar(d. The penetration of the ocean was most severe in 1885 when the
1/   Greater Georgetown consists of the Municipality of Georgetown and the
15 communities which surround it.



--4 -
railway embankment served as the sea defense. A new sea defense was con-
structed two decades later from Camp Road to Kitty Groyne (Map 6) to stem
the attacks of the sea and the railway embankment now serves as a second
line of defense.  11owever, the continiuing cycle of erosion results in a
progressive decrease in the foreshore level. It is unlikely that the exist-
ing sea defense can withstand the next cycle of the erosion phenomenon.
3.03       The central business district and Covernnment offices are located
in the northwest part of Georgetown near the port facilities.  The residen-
tial areas, which1 are divided into well-defined communiities with noticeable
variation in quality and density, are dlistributed throughout the urban area
(Map 4). In general, the housing standards decline from nortlh to south,
reflecting the premium placed on tlhe proximiLy to the sea and its northeast
trade winds, which make living in this otherwJise hot climate more tolerable.
Industry is located in the soutlhwest area of the urban area where river
transport facilities are available. The prevailing wind direction also
v.eers the air free of industrial pollution.
3.04       Georgetown Municipality has an adequate supply of water and elec-
tricity.  however, sewerage facilities outside the Municipality are generally
poor. Because of the low terrain, storm drainage has also been a problem.
During heavy rains, particularly when they coincide with a high tide and the
sluice gates of tlhe canals are closed, the urban area is flooded. Damage
from such flooding is not serious, however, because the water rarely exceeds
one foot in deptth, and is drained quickly at low tide into the Demerara River.
3.05       Greater Georgetown is connected to other areas on the east coast
by the railroad and a highway running along the sea defenses. Another
major highway going south connects Greater Georgetown witlh Timheri Inter-
national Airport (formerly Atkinson Field) and Linden (formerly Mackenzie).
A ferry service connects it with the west coast. Transportation service in
the urban area is adequate at present, but the continuing increase in popula-
tion beyond the greenbelt area is already straining the existing facilities.
3.06       The Municipality is administered by a Mayor and Town Council, while
the remainder of Greater Georgetown is administered by the elected Local Au-
thorities of the respective villages. Proposals to extend the limits of the
Municipality to include the entire Greater Georgetown area are already in
hand.  The Town and Country Planning, Departnment within the Ministry of hous-
ing and Reconstruction is the principal land use planning agency.
B.  Future Prosypects for Urban Development
3.07       Although the Government is trying to develop the interior to
prevent further concentration of the population in the coastal plain,
Greater (Georgetown is expected to continue to attract people from other
parts of tile country because it providles better living conditions and op-
portunities for emiployment.  11owever, land within Greater Georgetown is
already fully developed, and urban developmenit is spreacling hlaphazardly



5-
beyond the greenbelt area. A revision of the zoning ordinance is being
considered to allow urban development to take place within the greenbelt.
Ihe development of 1,700 acres of greenbelt area east of Greater Georgetown
(Map 4) can accommodate an additional population of approximately 65,000
people.  The major direction of growth for the foreseeable future would be
towards the east along thie coast where the Government has made substantial
investments in the sea defenses with financial assistance from the bank and
UK. The proposed project would further protect Greater Georgetown and make
it safe for future urban development.
C.  Existing Sea Defenses
3.08      The first sea defenses along the foreshore at Georgetown were
constructed some two hundred years ago by individual farmers. As erosion
continued, the farmers constructed new earth dikes furtlher inland. The
maintetnance of these clefenses, however, became too expensive for the far-
mers and, in 1933, the rovernment enacted a sea defense ordinance and ap-
pointed a Sea Defense Board with responsibility for protection of the
entire coastline.  Platning, construction, and maintenance of the defenses
are carried out by the Ministry of Works, hydraulics, and Supply (MoWH&S)
and are financed by the Government.
3.09      The existing sea defenses at Georgetown extend over a lengtlh of
8,400 feet from Fort Groyne to Kitty Groynie (Map 6). In general, the
sea defenses (also called sea wall) consist of compacted clay dikes which
are protected by a grouted boulder revetment on the seaside with a concrete
coping at the top. The design and nature of the sea defenses vary in
different locations as shown below:



Section                  Particulars of Sea Wall                 Length
("lap 6)                                                        (feet)
1                 Stone masonry wall on foreshore,
no earth etmbankment                       800
2                 Earth embankment, stone masonry
wall                                        770
3                 Paved earth embankment, stone
masonry wall                               870
4                 Earth embankment, surfaced road,
stone masonry wall                         970
5                 Earth embankment, surfaced road,
reinforced concrete coping               2,680
6                 Earth embankment, surfaced road,
reinforced concrete coping, new
revetment                                  150
7                Earth embankment, surfaced road,
reinforced concrete coping                 630
8                 Earth embankment, surfaced road,
reinforced concrete coping,
akmons                                   1,530
8,400
3.10      Historical data indicate that there has been a general recession
of the coast since about 1750. A comparison of the 1763 coastline with
the present location of the sea defenses indicates that the loss of land
during the past two centuries has been considerable. The causes of erosion
are not fully known, but the erosion is related to extensive mud shoals
travelling westward along the coast at the rate of 0.7 to 0.75 miles per
year. The phenomenon has been studied extensively and i8 described in the
report on the Demerara Coastal Investigation, prepared in 1962 by the Delft
Hydraulics Laboratory, in cooperation with Netherlands Engineering Consul-
tants (NEDECO). At present, the area of active erosion is situated between
Ogle and Beterverwagting (Map 2), and it is expected that this zone will
shift towards Georgetown and attack the sea defenses in the near future.
3.11      According to investigations carried out by the Delft Hydraulics
Laboratory in 1969, the levels of the foreshore at 100 feet from the sea



defense varied between 50.0 GD 1/ and 54.0 GD. Erosion below the level of
46.0 GD would seriously endanger many sections of the existing sea defenses
with foundation levels of about 45.0 GD (Annex 8). It is estimated that
during the coming cycle of erosion the level of the foreshore would prob-
ably be reduced to as low as 43.0 GD. In the following cycle, around the
year 2,000, further erosion down to a level of 40.0 GD could be expected.
The existing sea defenses, therefore, require urgent improvements to with-
stand the expected erosion and since the additional cost is relatively
small, the design should provide for the possibility of an erosion down to
a level of 40.0 GD.
D. Consequences of a Breach in the Sea Defenses
3.12      If the sea defenses at Georgetown breach during the next cycle
of erosion, parts of the urban area would be subjected to extensive property
damage and economic and social activities would be seriously disrupted. The
damage would be most severe in the 2.5 sq mi between the sea defenses
and the railroad embankment where some of the key public utilities, commer-
cial areas, Government offices and institutions, urban transport facilities,
and residential communities are located (Annex 4). The flooding in this
zone would be three to four feet deep and, at high spring tide, the water
level would be only a foot below the top of the railroad embankment. If a
breach in the railroad embankment itself occurs, which is possible but not
probable, extensive damage to developments south of the railroad would result.
3.13      The flooding in the area between the sea defense and the railroad
embankment would affect the power station of the Guyana Electric Company and
could result in a failure of the power supply for the entire city. The Tropo-
spheric Scatter Station would also be inundated, disrupting international
telephone and telegraph communications. Other important facilities which
would be adversely affected include a technical institute, three high schools,
the Pegasus Hotel, which is the major international hotel in Guyana, and five
residential communities. Traffic on the Sea Wall Road and other major streets
passing through the flooded area would also be disrupted (Annex 5). The dura-
tion of flooding would be quite long because it would take several weeks to
close the sea defense. The breach which occurred at Enmore in 1958 was 500
feet wide, and it took nearly three months and an estimated cost of about
G$570,000 to close. Flooding over such a long period could create serious
health problems because disposal of sewage, particularly in the densely
populated Kitty Village, would be difficult. Under prolonged inundation,
1/   Elevations in Guyana are measured in feet above a hypothetical datum,
Georgetown Datum (GD), so as to provide positive numbers even for
places below sea level. Mean sea level is 50.54 GD, whereas the high-
est tide on record is 56.24 GD. The elevations of other features of
interest are shown in Figure 2.



there is also the danger of epidemics. If a breach is so large as to be
irreparable, the area would be permanently inundated and would have to be
abandoned.
3.14      In addition to severe flooding in the protected area described
above, the water would initially pass through the drainage trenches in the
railroad embankment and flood some areas on the south side. The damage
caused by such flooding would not be serious, however, as the water would
be shallow and could be drained through the drainage canals into the
Demerara River at low tide, after closing the trenches in the railway
embankment.
IV. TIE PROJECT
A. Project Description
4.01      The project, which would be executed over two years by the
Ministry of Works, Hydraulics, and Supply (MoWH&S), would be a part of
Phase I of the Twelve-Year Sea Defense Program. It would include:
(a) construction of the Georgetown sea defenses over a
total length of 8,400 feet, consisting of major
rehabilitation of 6,830 feet of existing sea
defenses and construction of 1,570 feet of new
sea defenses;
(b) construction of a diversion road to divert traffic
on the existing Georgetown sea defenses in order to
facilitate the rehabilitation works;
(c) rehabilitation of eight drainage outfalls for drain-
age of areas behind the sea defenses in East and West
Coasts Demerara financed under Loan 559-GUA;
(d) consultant services for detailed engineering, prepara-
tion of tender documents and construction supervision;
(e) procurement of floating craft (2 tugs of 450 HP and
9 pontoons of 250-500 tons capacity) for the trans-
port of stone;
(f) construction of a slipway for the maintenance of the
floating craft; and
(g) purchase of steel sheet piles and equipment for use
under the Sea Defense Program.



- 9 -
B. Construction of Sea Defenses
Suitability of Sites and Designs
4.02      The Georgetown sea defense works is based on the Feasibility
Study of Georgetown Sea Defense, prepared by the Netherlands Engineering
Consultants (NEDECO) in September 1970 under Bank Loan 559-GUA (1968). The
designs of the project were developed after extensive site investigations,
design studies, soil tests and hydraulic model experiments at the Delft
Hydraulics Laboratory. The design criteria were developed based on the
following considerations:
(a) the Georgetown sea defenses should be safe against
the erosion of the foreshore to a level of 40.0 GD,
expected in the two erosion cycles during 1973-1985
and around the year 2,000;
(b) the existing sea defenses should be utilized as far
as possible; and
(c)  the design selected should be economical and should
require minimum annual maintenance.
4.03      The alignment of the existing embankments has been followed in
most sections, except in Sections 1 and 2, where a new embankment has been
provided. The alternative of constructing a new sea defense in front of
the old one, instead of incorporating the existing structures, was considered,
but abandoned in view of its high cost. Also, in view of poor soil condi-
tions, the use of existing embankments was found preferable to reduce chances
of slides during excavation and filling operations. The final cross sections
of the rehabilitated sea defenses were selected after testing various altern-
atives in the hydraulics laboratory and taking into account the results of
tests carried out in the soil mechanics laboratory (Figure 1).
Diversion Road
4.04      A major road exists on the Georgetown sea wall which connects
central Georgetown with areas on the east coast. Traffic on this road is
quite heavy. A 12-hour two-way traffic count taken on an average weekday
indicated that some 3,800 passenger and commercial vehicles, and 1,800
bicycles and motorcycles, use this road daily (Annex 5). Construction
operations require closing the road for a period of about two years. This
is difficult, however, as traffic capacity on alternative routes is limited.
Moreover, if the road were kept open during the construction period, a
number of temporary diversions would have to be constructed, which would
be costly and hazardous. Based on a recent traffic study of access roads
to Georgetown, the Government is planning to construct a new four-lane
paved road by 1985 which would run roughly parallel to the sea wall. The
Government has proposed that two lanes of this road should be constructed
as a part of the sea defense project, so that it could serve as a diversion



- 10 -
road during the construction of the sea defenses. The appraisal mission
examined the proposals and concluded that this arrangement would be prefer-
able to the other alternatives discussed above, both in respect to overall
costs and safety of construction operations. The construction of the diver-
sion road, therefore, has been included in the project as a part of the
preparatory works. Assurances on timely completion of this road were ob-
tained from the Government during negotiations.
Existing Drainage Outfalls
4.05      Some of the existing drainage outfalls, constructed over 50 years
ago, require rehabilitation. The cost of minor repairs originally included
in the First Sea Defense project, Loan 559-GUA, was US$210,000. Subsequently,
however, Sir William Halcrow and Partners, the consultants for the First Sea
Defense project, recommended that the scope of work for rehabilitation
of the outfalls should be more extensive than originally envisaged and would
cost approximately US$650,000. In view of this change and also because of
the need for a more detailed review of the scope of work, it was decided to
exclude the outfalls from Loan 559-GUA and to consider them under the Sec-
ond Sea Defense project. At the request of the Government, Sir William
Halcrow and Partners have re-examined the scope of work in the light of
their actual experience on similar outfalls in other parts of the sea de-
fenses. The consultants have now recommended that the eight drainage out-
falls under the First Sea Defense project (seven in East Coast Demerara
and one in West Coast Demerara) would require complete rehabilitation and
that their estimated cost, taking into account the unit prices actually
obtained for similar works currently being constructed under UK financing,
would be US$1,585,000.
4.06      After detailed discussions during negotiations, it was agreed
that the eight outfalls would have to be rehabilitated as recommended by
the consultants. Because the quantities of the various elements of the
works are approximate in the absence of detailed designs, a 25% contin-
gency for quantities and a 15% contingency for price escalation are applied
to cover all possible variations. The higher cost of rehabilitating the
outfalls, however, does not significantly alter the economic viability of
the First Sea Defense project, which had been justified in terms of the
entire Twelve-Year Sea Defense Program. The internal economic returns of
the First Sea Defense project were 31% and 24% depending on the assumed
level of market return on housing. Recalculation with the new outfall
costs, resulted in reductions by less than 2% of the respective internal
economic returns.
Availability of Materials
4.07      Most of the materials required for construction are available
locally, except the cement, bitumen (asphalt), polypropylene sheets, and
steel sheet piles, which would be imported. Good quality sand is avail-
able in unlimited quantities near Atkinson Field (Map 1), and will be
transported by trucks to the construction site. Stone for revetments is
available from both public and private quarries. It would be transported
from the quarries on pontoons to Georgetown where adequate unloading
facilities are available. Boulders and aggregate are available near
Bartica, about 60 miles upstream on the Essequibo River.



Floating Craft and Slipway
4.08      Efficient arrangements for transporting stone from quarries to
various sections of the sea defenses are essential for the construction of
the sea defenses and their future maintenance.   As the existing floating
craft are quite old, and are likely to become unserviceable in a short time,
the procurement of new and/or used tug boats and pontoons and a construction
of a slipway to facilitate their maintenance have been included in the pro-
posed project. The new floating craft would not be available until the last
part of the construction period. However, they are essential for the future
maintenance of the proposed project works, as well as for the implementation
of the remaining works under the Twelve-Year Sea Defense Program. During
the early construction period of the Georgetown sea defenses, the existing
floating craft will be used. Allowances have been made for renting floating
craft should the need arise prior to the completion of new floating craft.
Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that it
would undertake to improve the efficiency of the existing river transport
operations.
Purchase of Steel Sheet Piles and Equipment
4.09      During construction of the sea defenses on the West Coast Demerara
(under Loan 559-GUA), severe unexpected local erosion occurred which neces-
sitated the use of steel sheet piles for emergency protection, as well as
for constructing temporary cofferdams. As the existing stock of sheet piles,
pile driving and ancillary equipment is inadequate, these items would be
purchased under the proposed project for future emergency sea defense works.
Construction Schedule
4.10      Details of the project schedule are given in Figure 3.  The comple-
tion of the detailed engineering and the preparation of tender documents
will require 10 months. In order to start construction in early 1972, the
Government appointed NEDECO (Netherlands) for the detailed engineering,
preparation of tender documents and supervision of the Georgetown sea defense
works and Sir William Halcrow and Partners (UK) for similar consulting
services for the rehabilitation of the eight drainage outfalls. Their
appointment as consultants for the proposed project provides continuity
of the work.
4.11      The construction period for the project, including contractors'
mobilization, would be about 24 months. The construction of the drainage
outfalls, the slipway and procurement of the floating craft and steel sheet
piles would proceed concurrently. Construction of the diversion road, which
is already being designed by the MoWH&S staff, is scheduled to start after
the rainy season in August 1971 and would be completed by February 1972, in
time to facilitate the construction of the sea defenses.



- 12 -
C. Project Cost
4.12      The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies, is
G$13.6 million, or approximately US$6.8 million. The foreign exchange
component would be G$10.0 million (US$5.0 million), or 74% of the project
cost. Detailed estimates are given in Annex 6. The main categories of
cost are summarized below:
(G$'000)                 (US$'000)          Foreign
Item             Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchan -
Construction
Sea Defenses        1,390   2,090   3,480       695   1,045   1,740         60
Diversion Road         168     252      420       84     126      210       60
Drainage Outfalls    792   2,378   3,170        396   1,189   1,585         75
Maintenance Slipway   80       320      400       40     160      200       80
Engineering &
Supervision           324      596      920      162     298      460       65
Procurement
Floating Craft           -   2,020   2,020         -   1,010   1,010       100
Steel Sheet Piles &
Equipment             -      360      360       -      180      180     100
Sub-total        2,754   8,016  10,770   1,377   4,008   5,385          74
Contingencies
Physical              456   1,017   1,473        228     509      737       69
Price                 364      959   1X323       182     479      661       72
Total Project
Cost             3,574   9,992  13,566   1,787   4,996   6,783          74
In addition, interest during construction on the Bank loan would require
US$385 thousand in foreign exchange.
4.13      The cost estimates of the sea defenses and slipway are based on
unit costs of similar works under Loan 559-GUA. The preliminary cost esti-
mate for the eight drainage outfalls are also based on works under Loan 559-
GUA. A contingency of 15% for the sea defenseworks and the slipway, and a
contingency of 25% for the eight outfalls, have been applied for possible
quantity variations, since the detailed engineering of the works has not
yet been completed. In addition, a price contingency of 15%, estimated at
an average rate of 7% per annum, has been applied to account for possible
increases in construction costs. A price contingency of 5% has been ap-
plied to the cost of engineering and supervision. Detailed unit costs were
prepared for each type of work and provision was made for preparatory works
and other costs incurred by contractors. The cost of floating craft, steel



- 13 -
sheet piles and equipment is based on quotations recently received by the
Government; a price contingency of 10% for price escalation has been applied
to the cost of the floating craft. The Government, following its normal
procedure for development projects undertaken by international contractors,
would exempt materials used on the project from import tax and permit re-
export of the construction equipment used exclusively for the project works.
1). Project Financing
4.14      The Government of Guyana, thc borrower, would finance the works
through annual allocations to the MoWh&S. The proposed loan would finance
the foreign exchange component of the project, amounting to US$5.0 million,
and tiue interest and othier charges on the Kank loan during the two-year con-
struction perio(d amounting to about US$0.4 million.  I'etroactive financing
up to a maximum of US$50,U0() equivalent may be required for engineering
services incurred after April 1, 1971. The Governmient would finance the
local cost component estinmated at G,$3.5 million (US$1.8 million).
Procurenent
4.15      Contracts of all civil engineering works and supply, except the
diversion road, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines and will be subject to Bank ap-
proval. The Bank would review the specifications and tender documents be-
fore issue, and conmment on all awards before they are made. The Government
has proposed to construct the diversion road on force account as the work
is relatively small (about US$0.21 million) and has to be constructed prior
to the construction of the main works.  In view of the urgency of this work
the Government's proposal is acceptable.
4.16      Due to technical reasons, the proposed Georgetown sea defense
works cannot be split into small sections and must be handled by a single
contractor.  The rehabilitation of the eight drainage outfalls can be split
into two or niore parts, and contractors will be invited to bid for one or
more contracts. Some local contractors currently engaged in small sections
of sea defenise works, or In subcontract work for the foreign contractors
executing Phase I work, may wish to participate in the bidding for the
civil engineering works included in thc proposed project, either on their
own or in joint ventures with foreign firms.  This is acceptable provided
their financial, teclhnical and managerial abilities are carefully assessed
by Government (luring pre(ualification.
Disbursement
4.17      The Bank loan would fi,nance; (a) c.i.f. cost of imported floating
craft, steel sheet piles and equipment, and (b) the foreign exchange com-
ponent of civil engineerinig works (construction of sea defenses, diversion
road, eight drainage outfalls and maintenance slipway), locally constructed
floating craft and consuLtants' services.  Any surplus of funds remaining
in the loan account on completion of the project should be cancelled.



- 14 -
4.18      The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 7 and is
sumnarized below:
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRI) Fiscal Year                         at End of Fiscal Year
(US$ O(O)
1972                                         1,162
1973                                         4,288
1974                                         4,996
Recovery of Project Costs
4.19      In accordance with the Sea Defense Ordinance of 1933, the debt
service and local and maintenance costs of the proposed project would be
financed by the Government from general revenues. Because of the concentra-
tion in the project area of government and institutional activities which
serve the nation as a whole, this arrangement would be tantamount to re-
covering the costs from the direct beneficiaries and is considered reason-
able.
E. Organization and Management
The Sea Defense Board
4.20      The Sea Defense Board, which was appointed by the Government under
the Sea Defense Ordinance of 1933, has certain statutory and advisory powers
(Annex 1), but would take no part in the execution of the project. During
appraisal of Sea Defense I project (Loan 559-GUA), the Bank considered the
possibility of strengthening the Board so that it might play an executive
and financial role during the latter phase of the Sea Defense Program. It
was found, however, that the teclhnical services provided by the MoWI&S were
indispensable and inseparable from the administrative organization. It was
therefore concluded that re-organization of the Sea Defense Board to include
executive functions would involve unnecessary duplication of effort and
might even impair the present ability of the MoWII&S to act quickly and ef-
ficiently during emergencies. The Bank reviewed this question and concluded
that the present arrangements should also apply for the proposed project.
The Ministry of Works, Hydraulics and Supply
4.21      The organization of the MoWH&S is shown in Figure 4.  The routine
work of the Ministry, including minor sea defense projects and maintenance,
is carried out by District Engineers, who are supported by specialist divi-
sions in headquarters. The Hydraulics Division is responsible for the plan-
ning and design of both sea defense and drainage and irrigation projects,



- 15 -
and specialist engineers from the Division are placed in charge of major
projects. The Division includes a Research and Survey Section which under-
takes hydrographic surveys and collects data for sea defense planning.
4.22      The main weakness of the Ministry is in the supervisory grades.
The young graduate engineers returning from overseas training are unable to
fill the many vacancies adequately since they do not have the practical ex-
perience to supervise work in the field. The Hydraulics Division also needs
assistance in preparing tender documents for large contracts. The detailed
engineering, preparation of tender documents and supervision of construction
will therefore be carried out by consultants. Thie consultants would also
be responsible for training the staff of the Ministry in various aspects
of the design and supervision of the works.
Maintenance of Sea Defenses
4.23      The control ancl maintenance of sea defense works in Guyana has
been executed satisfactorily according to the following procedures estab-
lished by the Government:
(a) Rangers in each district patrol the sea defenses daily
and report on their findings to the district engineer;
(b)  the district engineer forwards the daily reports to the
MoWH&S in Georgetown where they are analyzed;
(c) these reports are discussed and action decided upoII in
the monthly meetings of the Sea Defense Board; and
(d)  emergency works such as closing of sudden breaches are
approved and executed directly by MoWH&S without waiting
for prior approval by the Sea Defense Board.
Accounts and Audits
4.24      The MoWTH&S is a self-accounting departmenit and would maintain
separate accounts for the project. Project accounts would be audited an-
nually by the Director of Audit of the Government. These arrangements
which were also followed for Loan 559-GUA, have been satisfactory.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      Shoul(d a breach occur at Georgetown, all efforts would have to be
made to close and repair the sea defense.  If it were not closed, the pro-
tecte(I area north of the railroad would be permanently inundated and would
have to he abandoned.  Ilence, the economic benefits directly attributable
to the project are measured in terms of tthe savings In (a) tlhe cosL of clos-
ing and rebuilding the sea defense after eachi expected breach, and (b) the



- 1 6 -
property damage due to inundation of the protected area before the sea de--
fense is closed.  Indirect benefits, suclh as savings in the costs of a dis-
rupted urban economy are also importanit.  These benefits, however, have not
been considered in the economic evaluation as it is difficult to measure
them in quantitative terms. Savings in minor damages to property in the
areas soutlh of the railroad, which would take place due to some water coming
through drainage trenclhes in the railroad embankment, are excluded.  The
exclusion of these benefits makes the economic evaluation quite conservative.
5.02      The evaluation of the direct benefits depend(s on the following:
a.   The probable occurrence of breaches
b.   The timing of breaches
c.   The magnitude of breaches
d.   The number of breaches
e.   The expected property damage due to breaches.
These factors are discussed in Annex 8.
5.03      Based on recent hydraulic studies and design analyses of the ex-
isting sea defense, it is estimated that as many as six breaches could occur
during the next erosion cycle.  Although the most probable period for the
breacthes to occur is between 1977 and 1982, a breach could occur anytime
after 1973 when serious erosion starts in the Georgetown foreshore.  Wlhile
there is no way to predict the size of a breach, and thus its severity, the
breach at Enimore in 1958 (Map 2) may serve as a suitable basis for the evalu-
ation of possible damages. The Enmore breach was about 500 feet wide and
took nearly three months to close at a cost of G$570,000 (US$ 285,000
equivalent). An additional sum of G$500,000 (US$250,000 equivalent) was
spent to restore the sea defense.  The possibilities of a breach of 800
feet or more in width, or multiple breaches, can not be ruled out and would
cause extensive damage. Such breaches, however, have not been considered
in the economic evaluation in order to be conservative.
5.04      The 1971 market value of the properties in the protected area
subject to potential damage due to tidal inundation is estimated at G$263.5
million (US$131.8 million equivalent). This estimate, which was prepared
by Bank staff, is based on information provided by the Government's Land
Valuation Office and data gathered in the field (Annex 4), and takes into
account the annual rental values of the properties. Based upon the assess-
ment of the property damages caused by the 1958 breach at Enmore, it is
estimated that damages due to tidal inundation in the protected area at
Georgetown would amount to about G$6.65 million (US$3.32 million equivalent)
or 2.5% of the total valuation (Annex 8, Table 2). This amount would in-
crease at least in accordance with the real per capita income growth pro-
jected for Guyana (3% per annum). It is assumed that as income increases,
people tend to own more property, which in turn would be damaged by tidal
inundation.



- 17 -
5.05      The economic evaluation involves the comparison of the benefits
and costs of the project over its economic life, reduced to their present
values. Maintenance costs do not enter into the calculations because they
are expected to be about the same for the proposed sea defenses as for the
existing structures. All benefits and costs are measured on a with and
without project basis, net of interest during construction and taxes, duties,
and similar levies. For sensitivity analyses, alternative benefit streams
were worked out using different assumptions for the timing and number of
breaches and the extent of the property damages expected (Annex 8, Table 3).
Costs for the diversion road, floating craft, and slipway, attributable to
the construction period, are included. The investment criteria employed
are: (a) the internal economic rate of return, and (b) the ratio of the
benefits and costs, expressed in present value terms (Annex 8, Table 4).
The economic life of the project is assumed to be 32 years, based upon the
cyclic erosion and accretion plhenomenon. Discount rates of 10% and 14%
were used for calculating the benefit-cost ratios. It is estimated that
the opportunity cost of capital in Guyana is within this range of discount
rates.
5.06      Using the most probable set of assumptions, the internal economic
rate of return was calculated to be 31%, and the benefit-cost ratios were
3.8 and 2.9, respectively, for discount rates of 10% and 14%. The results
based on alternative assumptions are given in Annex 8, Table 4. These
results indicate that the project is sound and economically justified.
VI. RECONNENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  completion of the diversion road expeditiously in time
to permit early start of work on rehabilitation and
construction of sea defenses at Georgetown (para. 4.04);
(b)  the Government would take steps to improve the efficiency
of the existing river transport operation (para. 4.08).
6.02      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$5.4 million equivalent for a period of 25 years including a five-year grace
period.  The borrower wotild be the Government of Guyana.






ANNEX 1
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
COASTAL EROSION AND SEA DEFENSES
1.         The first sea defenses along the Georgetown foreshore were con-
structed some two hundred years ago by individual landowners on their own
initiative and at their own cost. These were earth dams, originally con-
structed some distance inland from the mean high water tide lines so that
the force of the incoming waves was dissipated over the foreshore. As a
result, the structures were subject to wave attack only during the highest
tides of the year. Although construction continued, the foreshore eroded
and defenses deteriorated, forcing the landowners to retire further inland
to establish a new line of defense. Sea defenses soon became too costly
for the individual landowners and as the urban area developed, the alter-
native to retire inland became pre-empted.
2.         Gradually, the Government was forced to accept responsibility and
in 1933, the Government enacted the Sea Defense Ordinance (amended in 1937).
A twelve-member Sea Defense Board has responsibility under this Ordinance
for the sea defenses of the entire coast. Planning, construction, and
maintenance are carried out by the MoWH1&S and the cost has been met by the
Government's annual budget.
3.         In 1962, the Delft Hydraulics Laboratory in cooperation with NEDECO
carried out a thorough investigation of the hydrography, oceanography, hy-
draulics, and sedimentology of the coastal area of Guyana mainly in the
vicinity of the Demerara River. The Bank acted as Executive Agency for the
UNDP Special Fund for this project. Further information was gathered by a
Bank financed study: "Georgetown Sea Defenses" under Loan 559-GUA. Fol-
lowing is a summary of the findings:
(a)   The sea wall designs for Guyana cannot be the same as those
in other countries, but must be developed on their own, based
on a complete knowledge of all hydrographical and oceanograph-
ical factors involved.
(b)   Geological data indicate that in the area of Georgetown, clay
from the Amazon River with a depth of 100 feet has been de-
posited over the past 3,000 years in two phases, with periods
of erosion in between. IHistorical data indicate a general
recession of the coast since 1750 of about one mile.
(c)   There is also a cyclic pattern of erosion and accretion having
a period of about 32 years and a "wave length" of about 25



ANNEX 1
Page 2
miles which travels westward along the coast at a rate of 0.70
to 0.80 miles a year.
(d) At present, an area of active erosion exists between Ogle
and Beterverwagting (East Coast Demerara). Consequently, a
new period of attack on the Georgetown sea wall is expected
to start in 1973 and last until about 1986.
(e) The foreshore will probably not drop below 43.00 GD 1/ during
this time, but how low the foreshore will drop during the next
attack, around the year 2000, cannot be exactly predicted.
Consequently, allowance has been made in the toe protection of
the sea defense, for an erosion down to 40.00 CD.
A. CYCLIC EROSION
4.        The report on the Demerara Coastal Investigation shows that large
mud banks (called macro-ripples) are joined to the coast at intervals of
approximately 25 miles. In the troughs between these local banks, waves and
moderate swells occur from the northeast, resulting in erosion of the beach
material on thewestern side of the troughs. There are no swells on the
eastern side of the trough because of the dampening effects of the sling-
mud. 2/ The macro-ripples move in a westward direction at a rate of about
three-quarters of a mile per year (mpy) causing the erosion of the coastline
to move westwards at the same rate, i.e. the erosion cycle for any one area
is about 32 years.
5.        Although it is possible to predict from this pattern when an area
will be subjected to intense erosion, it is difficult to decide when
erosion will actually affect sea-defense structures. The degree of erosion
of sea defenses depends on the actual widths of foreshore at mean high tide,
the type of beach material, the intensity of wave action and the duration of
wave attacks.
1/   Elevations in Guyana are measured in feet above a hypothetical datum,
Georgetown Datum (GD), so as to provide positive numbers even for places
below sea level. Mean sea level is 50.54 GD, whereas the highest tide
on record is 56.24 GD. The elevations of other features of interest are
shown in Figure 1.
2/   Sling-mud is one of the most remarkable phenomena of the Guyana coast.
It is formed by the orbital movement of water particles stirring up the
partly liquid, partly plastic mass of mud resting on the seabed. The
mud particles are moved, consuming so much energy that the waves are
dampened out. Areas of sling-mud can be readily spotted from the air.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
6.        Erosion may continue in the same area for as long as six years and
may even extend back eastwards into an area where accretion has already be-
gun, in spite of the general 3/4 mpy westward movement. Such conditions
have actually been experienced.
7.        Hydrographic investigations of the East Demerara Coast indicate
that within the next two years the erosion will begin to work on the area
from Beterverwagting east to Georgetown. The attack will continue over a
period of at least ten years in varying degrees of intensity. Works east
of Georgetown are presently financed under Loan 559-GIJA.
B. TIDE AND WAVE CHARACTERISTICS
8.        Most of the information available on waves and hydraulic conditions
was obtained during the investigations carried out by the Delft Hydraulics
Laboratory in 1960-62. Most of these investigations were carried out on the
East Coast of Demerara and in the vicinity of Georgetown. There is very
little information on other parts of the coast. Bank Loan 559-GUA provided
the procurement of the necessary equipment and floating craft to undertake
the required investigations.
9.        The coastal plain between the Demerara and Mahaica Rivers is built
up principally of very fine colloidal clays, resting on sand and sand-clays.
This clay belt also extends under the ocean for approximately another 20
miles, and it has a thickness of more than 100 ft. in most places. There
is a rather flat continental shelf which is about 150 miles wide.
Tides
10.       The tide is semidiurnal and has an amplitude which varies on an
average from 4 ft. at neap tide to 9 ft. at spring tide (Figure 2). Rarely
is the amplitude as small as 3 ft. or as big as 10 ft. Mean high water
spring (MHWS) is 50.04 GD and mean low water spring (MLWS) is 46.24 GD.
The Admiralty datum, from which fathom contours are measured, is 1.1 ft.
below MLWS, i.e. at 45.14 GD. The direction of the tide is not always per-
pendicular and parallel to the coast. The highest tidal level ever recorded
in Georgetown was 56.24 GD on August 7, 1956, and was caused by 20 knot
winds. The predicted high water was 55.74 GD.
Other significant water-levels are:
Highest Astronomical Tide                  55.70 GD
Highest Water Sprlng                       54.60 GD
High Water Neap                            52.40 GD
Low Water Neap                             48.50 GD
Low Water Spring                           46.20 GD
Lowest Astronomical Tide                   44.70 GD



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Waves
11.       The direction of the prevailing wind is northeasterly and its
strength varies daily as well as yearly. The wind increases after dawn and
after tides, is fairly constant during the day, and slackens after sunset.
Wind velocities are greatest during the early months of the year, and smal-
lest at mid-year. Wind speeds of 8-12 knots are very common, and extreme
values are 15 to 20 knots.
12.       The wind has a 'fetch' of several hundred miles, and is mainly re-
sponsible for the local wave pattern. These currents together with the tidal
currents and the waves act on the mud banks causing the regular movement of
material which partially accounts for the cyclic erosion pattern.
13.       The predominant factor affecting the intensity of the wave energy
is the presence of sling-mud resulting in varying wave patterns over a given
area. The maximum intensity of wave action is felt in the center of the gap
between two adjacent banks of sling-mud. Waves travelling over the sling-
mud are weakened, affording protection to the areas that are in their geo-
metric shadow. The presence of the four large rivers also has an effect on
the wave patterns, particularly during the rainy season, when the flows of
the rivers are at their maximum. This is most noticeable in the areas be-
tween the Demerara and the Essequibo Rivers.
14.       The areas of maximum wave energy are the areas of heaviest erosion.
The level to which the foreshore may drop during erosion determines the type
of sea defense to be used; as the lower the foreshore, the deeper the water
and the greater the wave action.
15.       Wave characteristics play an extremely important part in the final
selection of the type of sea defenses to be built in any particular area.
They determine to a large extent the type of coping, depth of toe protection,
type of revetment and foreshore protection to be constructed. No accurate
recordings of wave heights incidence on the exposed sections of existing sea
defenses are available. Designs were based on a 6 ft. wave with a nine
second period, as recommended by the Delft Hiydraulics Laboratory.
16.       Observations made by the Hydrographic Section of the Ministry of
Works, Hydraulics and Supply at Kitty Groyne from February 1958 to January
1969 show the following results:
Height 1      ft. in 57.0% of observations
Height 1.5   ft. in 30.0% of observations
Height 2      ft. in  9.4% of observations
Height 2.5   ft. in  2.5% of observations
Height 3      ft. in  0.8% of observations
Height 3.5   ft. in  0.2% of observations
Height 4      ft. in  0.1% of observations
and 4.5 ft. was never exceeded.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
17.       The period of these waves varied between 5 and 20 seconds, 51%
ranging from 10 to 14 seconds. The variation of the wave height with the
seasons is in accordance with the variations out at sea. (The attenuation
of the waves approaching the coast has been simulated in a hydraulic model,
and the results were in accordance with the observations in nature).
C. EXISTING SEA DEFENSES
18.       The present sea defenses comprise:
Miles
Natural shell reefs, sand bars and
clay banks                                 25.2
Earth Embankments                           127.2
Old Walls, sheet and timber piles            40.1
New walls                                     5.0
New walls under construction                  5.0
Groynes, other structures or
unprotected, approx:                       67.5
270.0
Earth Embankments
19.       These embankments, guarded by a wide foreshore, are located well
away from wave action, and exist mainly to prevent flooding by the encroach-
ing high tide. The crown level of the embankment is 60.00 GD and is designed
on a 1:3 slope. Such embankments will withstand the incoming tide even when
the foreshore is eroded to the level of 49.00 GD. The top of the embankment
is 10-16 ft. wide to accommodate construction traffic.
Old Walls
20.       Old walls are rehabilitated prior to their exposure to wave action
when predictions show that these would be severe (as on the east and west
coast of Demerara). Depending on the state of the old walls, rehabilitation
is done in two stages - the reconstruction of the lower section, i.e. to-
piling and revetment (to a level between 55.00 and 60.00 GD) followed by the
reconstruction of the upper section.
New Walls and Revetment
21.       These structures are built on an earth embankment where further
deep erosion threatens the safety of the embankment and when repairs become
impractical. The height of walls and revetments are designed to withstand
fully the forces of the sea.
Groynes
22.       Groynes (dikes constructed lperpendicularly to the coast), although



ANNEX 1
Page 6
used successfully for sea defenses in many countries, have little effect on
foreshore conditions in the project area where the material is mainly clay,
as the erosion in the lee of the current may undermine the structure. This
has been proven by experience and during investigations made by the Delft
Hydraulic Laboratory. In sandy areas of the Essequibo River coast, however,
groynes have proved successful.
D. DESIGN OF THE REHABILITATION OF THE
EXISTING SEA DEFENSE IN THE GEORGETOWN AREA
23.       The location (Map 6) and particulars of the eight sections of the
existing sea walls are as follows:
Section   Location               Particulars of Sea Defense            Length
1.      Fort Groyne -        Stone masonry wall on foreshore           800'
Swimming pool        No embankment
2.      Swimming pool -      Earth embankment, stone masonry           770'
Round House          wall
3.      Round House -        Paved earth embankment, stone             870'
Bandstand            masonry wall
4.      Bandstand            Earth embankment, surfaced road,          970'
Camp Road            stone masonry wall
5.      Camp Road -          Earth embankment, surfaced road         2,680'
Adamson's Bend
6.      Adamson's Bend -    Earth embankment, surfaced road,           150'
reinforced concrete coping
7.      Adamson's Bend -    Earth embankment, surfaced road,           630'
Wireless Road        reinforced concrete coping
8.      Wireless Road -      Earth embankment, surfaced road,        1,530'
Kitty Groyne         reinforced concrete, coping, akmons
(reinforced concrete blocks)
8,400'
24.       The following works have recently been carried out and would be
incorporated in the rehabilitation work: new reinforced concrete coping wall
over a length of 5,000 feet, new and widened asphalt roadway (length 5,000
feet) on top of the embankment behind the coping wall, and new revetment
near Adamson's Bend over a length of 150' (area approximately 1,000 sq yards).



ANNEX 1
Page 7
25.       The revetments protecting five sections of the existing sea de-
fenses totalling 5,370 feet in length lies above 46 GD. Hence, a drop of
the foreshore in front of them to a level below 48 GD will greatly endanger
their stability. The chances of a breach in these sections are very nigh
because the foreshore is predicted to drop to as low as 43 GD during the
coming erosion cycle.
26.       The most crucial aspect in the design of sea defense embankments
is foundation stability, without which the embankments would collapse.  The
results of soil mechanics field-work and laboratory tests on undisturbed
samples have shown that the bearing quality of the unconsolidated clay layers
of the coastal plain near Georgetown is poor.
27.       This soil is comprised of a thin top layer of firm clay on top of
a very poor clay with a high moisture content. Once the material of the
sub-soil is dried out it forms a firm clay which, with proper compaction,
can develop a sheer strength of 800 lb/sq ft. In its natural state, the
top soil has a sheer strength of approximately 450-500 lb/sq ft. and the
sub-soil a strength of 120-220 lb/sq ft.
28.       Because of the nature of the soil, use must be made of the exist-
ing embankments to prevent slides during and after construction due to ex-
cavation and filling operations. In the section between Fort Groyne and
the swimming pool, a new embankment has been designed on the foreshore
since there is no embankment in this section.
29.       On the seaward side, the embankment is protected by a revetment
of boulders embedded in a flexible bitumen-sand layer placed on polythene
filter sheeting which prevents the washing out of the underlaying 6-inch
thick layer of white sand. This sand layer in turn is spread over a poly-
ethylene sheeting which maintains a constant moisture content in the ground,
thus reducing the possibility of differential settlement.
30.       At the toe of the revetment, 5 to 10 ft. long greenheart sheet
piles (locally available hardwood) are driven to 40.00 to 45.00 GD. The
sheet piles add stability against slipping and prevent scouring from under
the revetment when deep erosion occurs. This revetment is also protecte.i
by a low-water berm which is at a level of 50.00 GD and has a width of 50
ft. (Fig. 1). The low-water berm prevents scouring and the generation of
slides along deep slip circles. Because of its elevation and length, the
low-water berm also reduces the wave runup. The low-water berm is protected
by a boulder toe protection down to 40.00 GD. A drop of the foreshore below
43.00 GD is deemed to be unlikely. Ilowever, as the sea defenses are to be
built for 50 years involving more than one erosion cycle, the safety margin
of 3 feet should be recommended and would not significantly increase the
cost of construction of the toe protection. A toe protection down to 40.00
GD seems a prudent measure.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
31.       The design of the proposed Georgetown defenses is based upon
general local experience, including many features proposed in the 1961/62
UNDP/SF Study, and incorporates the most recent experience gained from the
works financed by Loan 559-GUA.



ANNEX 2
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
THE TWELVE-YEAR SEA DEFENSE PROGRAM
1.        The Twelve-Year Sea Defense Program (1968-1979) identifies the
sea defense problems of Guyana and presents projects and studies required
to solve these problems. 1/ Phase I of the program (1968-73) includes pro-
vision for the technical, hydrographic, and economic studies needed for the
preparation of detailed designs and feasibility studies for subsequent
phases. The aims of the program are to (a) provide a reasonable degree of
protection for all parts of the coastal plain, (b) reclaim about 10,000
acres of land, mainly tidal salt flats, for agriculture and housing, and
(c) improve drainage in selected areas. The works required to achieve
these aims are estimated as follows:
Phase I     Later Phases       Total
1968/73       1973-79         1968/79
 -----------(miles)---------------
Rehabilitation of existing sea walls       4.9            9.7             14.6
Construction of new walls:
on sea coast                           9.1            5.8             14.9
on rivers                               -             4.5              4.5
Construction of earth embankments         26.5           53.4             79.9
40.5          73.4            113.9
New drainage outfalls (nos)                8             13               21
Area reclaimed (acres)                     -             10,000          10,000
2.        Table I shows the existing defenses and proposed works at George-
town and other economically important areas on the East and West Demarara
Coasts.  The proposed works for these areas are scheduled in accordance with
the cyclic erosion pattern.
3.        Table I also shows the interdependency of the various sea defense
works. For example, if Section 33-35 of the works on the East Demerara
Coast is not undertaken, the earth embankment could erode and breach. The
inundation of the sea would spread laterally, affecting not only production
and property in areas protected by the adjacent Section 22-33, but also the
embankments behind the new sea defense works now in progress.
1/   Ministry of Works and Hydraulics, "A Proposed Program of Sea Defense
Works in Guyana, Vol. 1 Engineering and Vol. 2 Economics", Georgetown,
Guyana, February 1968.






SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
TWELVE-YEAR SEA DEFENSE PROGRAM
Cyclical
Distance          Section    Existing Defence                    Distance Inland      Erosion         Expected            Proposed Construction      Proposed Source
TSD#)                                            from Shore        on shore        on defence            Year        Type            of finance
Greater           1-4         Old Wall, no coping                300 - 0'             Now             1971/73             1971/73       x
Georgetown       4h8          Old Wall with new coping           0                    Now             Now                 1971/73       x
8-9        New Wall in progress                250                 Now             1972/74             1970/73                        U.K.
9-16       New Concrete Wall in progress       200-1100'           Now             1972/74             1970/73                        U.K.
East Demerara     16-20       Concrete Wall                      1000'                Now             1972/75             1973/75       x
20-22      Concrete Wall                       1250'               Now             1972/74             1971/75       x
22-33      New Wall in progress               700 - 0'             Now             1971/74             1971/73                        IBRD
33-35      Earth Bank & New Type 1 Walls      0                    Now             Now                 1970                           IBRD
35-39      New Type 1 Walls                   0 - 100'             Now, but        Now in section      1970/71                        Force Account
decreasing     39 area
39-44      Earth Bank and New Walls           100' - 800'          Now, but        Now in section      1975/80       x
with & without coping                                   decreasing      39 area
44-64      Walls built 1950/60                 800 - 0'            1980/90         1982/92             1978/80       x
64-73      Earth Bank & Old Walls              0 - 170'            Local           1970/75             1970/73                        IBRD
erosion now
73-74      Earth Bank & New Wall in            0                   Local           Now                 1970/73                        IBRD
progress                                                erosion now
74-75      Old Wall                            0                                   Now                 1970/73                        IBRD
75-92      Earth Bank and Old Walls            0 - 300              1972/80        1978/80             1973/75       x
West Demerara     2-3         Old Wall                            400' (av.)          1973/75         1974/78             1973/75       x                ?
3-4        Earth Bank                          350 - 1300          1973/75                             1973                           Force Account
10-11      Earth Bank                          1600-1250            1974/76                            1971                           Force Account
11-15      Old Wall                            1200                 1974/76        1975/80             1975/80       x                ?
(2-23)     (Rehabilitation of Banks           -                    -                                   1968/73                        Force Account
in progress)
22-24      Earth Batkand Old Wall              800 - 80             Now            1972/74             1972/73       x                ?
24         Old Wall                            80                  Now             1971/72             1971/72                        U.K.
25         New Wall without coping             0                    -              Now                 Completed                      Force Account
25-32      Old Wall                            60 - 0              Now             1971/74             1973/80       x                ?
(29-30)    New Wall                           -                    -               _                   1971                          U.K.
33-34      Old Wall & New Wall with            0                    -              Now                 1973/8a                        Completed Section
coping completed                                                                                                          by Force Account
34-52      Old Wall - New Walls in             0                   -               Now                 1971/73                        U.K.
progress
53-57      Old Wall                            0                    -              Now                 1972/80       x                ?
57-60      Old Wall                            0                    -              Now                 1973/80       x                ?
60-62      Earth Bank                          0 - 100             Now             1970/75             1971                           IBRD
62-64      Earth Bank & Old Wall               100 - 700            Now            1975/80             1973/80                        ?
64-68      Earth Bank, Old Wall and New        700 - 0              Now            1971                1971                           IBRD
Walls in progress
68-70      Earth Bank & Old Walls              150 - 0              Now            1971/75             1971/72       x                ?
70-74      Old Walls & Earth Bank              0 - 100              Now            1971/75             1972/74       x                ?
75         Boulder Wall                        0
76-77      New Wall in progress                60                   Now            1971/73             1971                           IBRD
78         Boulder Wall                        0                    -              Now                  Completed                     Force Account
*78-90      Earth Bank, Boulder Walls           C - 90                                                                                 Force Account
lRiver Defences
x  Type of construction dependent upon recommendations of NEDECO           * Temporary protective measures being carried out at several points within these sections.
February 1971






ANNEX 3
Table 1
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS 1966-1970
(in G$ Million Pt Current Prices)
1966      1967       1(68       ly6o      1970)
GOF' AL F'ctor Cost        3)47.)     37H.5    )h1l.2      )OJ7.D       2
Net Frnctor Income
PaymenLs Abroad           32.6       31.8      30.?         5.5.
GNP at iFactor (,ost       314 .)4    3) 6 .7    3Yi2. )   111.5      i3' ) 
Capital Consumption
Allowances                20.1       23.3       27.1      31.0       33.D
NMt National Income        293.6      323.!t     354.9     38;0.5     4J5.
PoDul1ation-/
(thousand persons)      (6V9.1      666.D      12 .7     099.7      717.?
Met National Income
per person (G$)            452         86        520       544        565
Source:  Government of Guyana, Ministry of iconomic Development, Statistical
Bureaui.
1/ Rnsed on preliminary estimates of the 197') population census which indicated
annual population growth rate of 2.5%/between 19)60 and 1970J.



ANNEX .
T'rb1e 2
SECONI) SEA DEFENSE PROJECT'
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
EXPORTS BY SELECTEI) COMMODITIES
(in US.4 Millions)
196_(     1967      1)013     1'ThY     37
'l'otal Exports                      112.2    123.(    117.j    12721.7   1i.
Agricultural Exports               Wl.6      65.4      55.9      6 2.)I    57 .2
Sugar                               31.7     37.2       33.3     )1.3       36.2
Rice                              li.5      13.1      13.1       9.         '3.0
Other Agricultural Exports         12.2      1)4.4     12.3      11.'      12.0
Molasses                        (1.6)    (2.7)    (2.1)    (1.9)    (1.6)
Rum                             (2.0)    (3.3)      (2.1)     (1.4)    (1.6)
limber                          (2.1)    (1.6)    (1.6)    (1.2)    (1.3)
Shrimp                          (3.13)    (3.5)     (3.7)    (3.13)    (6i.3)
Other                           (2.7)    (3.3)    (3.0)       (3.1)     (2.7)
Mineral Fxports                    53.3      55.7      55.14     62.3      72.3
Calcined BaiixiLe                  15.       14.9      1).6      21.1      2i0.1
Dried Bauxite,                     12.10    15.6       1l.()     1).       ?2] 7
Alutmina                           1').3     113.7     113.2     20.7      2h.7
Other Miner,-Rl hxports             7.0       6.5       6.3       2.2       1.13
Manganese                       (3.2)    (2.9)    (1.6)    (--)         (--)
Diamonds                        (3.0)    (3.6)    (2.4)       (2.0)     (1.6)
Other                           (0.13)    (--)      (--?      ().?)    (0.2)
Other Exports                       0.5       1.9        3.1       3.0       3.5
o01urcI,s:  Govermnent of Guyana, Ministry of Economic Development, Statisticai
Bmircami; and -intprnationl Monet,ary F'uvni. ..t-aff estimates.



ANNEX 4
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
PROTECTED AREA SURVEY AND VALUATION
1.        Most of Georgetown is below high tide level (Figure 2) and relies
on the sea defenses for protection against tidal inundation. However, al-
though the sea defenses between Fort Groyne and Kitty Groyne have been re-
inforced recently, they cannot withstand the drop in the foreshore and
undermining of the foundation expected during the coming erosion cycle
(Annex 1).
2.        The major direct economic benefits of the proposed project are
measured in terms of savings of property damages resulting from a breach
and tidal inundation. The NEDECO (Netherlands) consultants assumed that
the tidal inundation would be confined to an area bounded by the sea wall
on the north, the Demerara River on the west, the railroad embankment on
the south, and Vlissengen Road on the east, which runs south from Kitty
Groyne (Map 4). In the field, however, the mission concluded that the in-
undation would not stop at Vlissengen Road, but would extend 1.2 miles
farther to the east, enclosing a total area of approximately 1.2 sq mi.
3.        If the sea defenses breached, water would initially pass through
the drainage trenches in the railroad embankment, and cover most of George-
town south of the railroad until the trenches could be closed with emergency
measures, and the water drained during low tide into the Demerara River. The
water depth would be shallow in this area and, since the inundation would
not be prolonged, the resultant property damages would not be great.
Survey of the Protected Area
4.        Within the protected area north of the railroad are located various
land uses which are of vital importance, not only to the economy of George-
town, but also to the entire nation (Map 6). Starting at the Demerara River
and moving west, the activities of importance are:
A.   Government and Institutional Uses
1.   Bond warehouse
2.   Forestry Department Offices
3.   Ministry of Works, Hydraulics and Supply Offices
4.   Public swimming pool
5.   Pegasus Hotel
6.   Saint Joseph Mercy Hospital
7.   Guyana Police Department Depot
8.   Guyana Police Department Headquarters
9.   Government Offices (Land Valuation Office, etc.)
10. Guyana Police Training School



ANNEX 4
Page 2
11. Guyana Red Cross Headquarters
12. Guyana Defense Force Barracks
13.  Ministry of Education Offices
14. Georgetown YMCA
15. Queen's College
16. Covernment Technical Institute
17. Guyana Legion Headquarters
18. Guyana Teachers' Association
19. Indian Educational Trust
20. Cuyana Boy Scouts Headquarters
21.  Muslim Youth Organization
22. Government Technical Institute Branch
23. Critchlow Labor College
24. Central High School
25.  Gandhi Youth Organization
26. Guyana Defense Force Officers Housing
27. Guyana Defense Force Headquarters
28.  St. Joseph's High School
29. North Georgetown Government Secondary Girls School
B.   Public Utilities
1.   Guyana Electric Company Power Station, supplying power to a]l of
Georgetown.
2.   Tropospheric Scatter Station, installations and housing; the two
antennae near the sea wall are the only telecommunication linkage
between Guyana and the rest of the world.
C.   Recreational Facilities
1.   Sports clubs, cricket fields, and game fields.
2.   The sea wall promenade extending from Camp Road to Kitty Groyne.
3.   Riding club and stables.
4.   Cycle tracks and National Park stands, where important national
celebrations are held.
D.   Residential and Commercial Communities
1.   Kingston; approximately 45 acres of high income residential
development.
2.   Bel Air Gardens; a 23 acre, high income residential subdivision.
3.   Bel Air Springs; a 17 acre, high income residential subdivision,
with new housing comparable in value to Kingston.
4.   Subryanville; approximately 40 acres of upper middle income
residential development.
5.   Kitty Village; approximately 180 acres of predominantly low and
middle income residential development, including primary and
secondary schools and neighborhood commerce.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Valuation of Property in the Protected Area
5.        The Land Valuation Office within the Ministry of Local Government
provided the mission with updated 1971 market values of the residential,
commercial, industrial, public utilities, Governmental and institutional
uses, and recreational properties in Georgetown, west of Vlissengen Road.
This listing included the residential and commercial properties in the com-
m,nity of Kingston, but did not include communities located east of
Vlissengen Road. The Land Valuation Office, however, assisted the mission
in making a field survey and estimating the property values for the four
suburban communities of Bel Air Gardens, Bel Air Springs, Subryanville, and
Kitty Village. The values of the commercial properties in Subryanville
and Kitty Village were calculated at 15% of their residential values. The
valuations for the five communities are shown below:
1971 Market Values
(G$ Million)
Communities                                 Residential           Commercial
Kingston                                         44.7                2.6
Bel Air Gardens                                  22.8                 -
Bel Air Springs                                  16.9                 -
Subryanville                                     26.5                4.0
Kitty Village                                    44.7                6.7
TOTAL                                155.6               13.3
6.        The Public Utilities, Government offices and institutional uses
are valued in terms of replacement costs as follows:
Valuation
(G$ Million)
Power Station                                                     5.0
Tropospheric Scatter Station                                      1.0
Government Offices and Institutions                              30.0
Roads                                                             5.0
Water Supply and Sewerage                                        11.2
TOTAL                                            52.2



ANNEX 4
Page 4
7.        The true value of the recreational facilities and land within the
protected area is difficult to establish. These areas have been zoned for
recreational purposes by the Government for the benefit of all the people
of Georgetown. The annual rent collected by the Municipal Government from
the various sports clubs is only about G$0.5 million.
8.        Most of the industries are located in the southwest corner of
Georgetown along the Demerara River and would not be affected by a breach
in the sea defense. There are only minor industries in the protected area
valued at a total of G$3.5 million.



ANNEX 5
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
TRAFFIC ON SEA WALL ROAD AND ALTERNATIVE ROUTE
1.        As shown in Map 6, the contractors for the proposed sea defense
works will have to mobilize on the inshore side of the Sea Wall Road and
continually transport construction materials and equipment across it. To
maintain both the construction works and the traffic would be extremely
difficult, and would require costly adjustments to the construction pro-
cedure. Hence, the Sea Wall Road between Camp Road and Vlissengen Road
(Kitty Groyne) should be closed to traffic during the two-year construction
period.
2.        The traffic on the Sea Wall Road could be diverted on to exist-
iig facilities, such as Vlissengen and Thomas Roads. These roads, however,
are already burdened with commuter and student traffic. A logical alterna-
tive would be to construct a diversion road over Kelley Dam, connecting
Camp Road and the intersection of the Sea Wall Road and Vlissengen Road at
Kitty Groyne. The diversion road would also be an important intra-urban
link after the sea defense works are completed. The MoWII&S estimates that
the cost of the road would be about G$350,000 (US$175,000 equivalent).
Traffic Volume on Sea Wall Road
3.        The justification for constructing a new diversion road depends in
part on the traffic volume presently using the Sea Wall Road. Because there
was no previous traffic counts on the Sea Wall Road, the mission requested
a 12-hour weekday traffic count at two critical locations on Sea Wall Road;
the intersections with Camp Road and Vlissengen Road. The count was made
by six employees of the MoWH&S on Tuesday, February 2nd from six in the
morning until six in the evening. The volume of traffic on the Sea Wall
Road was as shown in Diagram 1.
4.        At Camp Road and Sea Wall Road, 1,810 four-wheel vehicles, of
which 1,750 were passenger cars, travelled east while 2,050 four-wheel
vehicles includling 1,770 passenger cars caine from the east. At Vlissengen
Road and Sea Wall Road, 1,530 four-wheel vehicles including 1,380 passenger
cars came from the west while 1,780 four-wheel vehicles including 1,380
passenger cars travelled west. The difference in volumes at the two inter-
sections is caused mainly by vehicles utilizing Wireless Road.
5.        The morning and afternoon peak hour passenger car volumes are in-
dicated in Diagrams 2 and 3. Close to 400 passenger cars headed downtown
on the Sea Wall Road during the morning peak hour, while over 400 passenger
cars headed east during the afternoon peak hour.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Existing Alternative Route
6.        The justification for the new diversion road also depends upon
the traffic condition of existing alternative routes. The most logical
alternative to the Sea Wall Road utilizes Vlissengen and Thomas Roads.
Driving over this alternative under existing conditions takes an average
of forty seconds and one minute more, respectively, during off peak and
peak hours, than over the Sea Wall Road. However, because traffic volumes
on both Thomas and Vlissengen Roads are already close to capacity during
peak hours, diversion of traffic from the Sea Wall Road will undoubtedly
cause congestion and increase the driving time. The problem is aggravated
by the need to make turns at both ends of Thomas Road. Also, any increase
in traffic on Thomas and Vlissengen Roads is hazardous to the large number
of student pedestrians and cyclists who commute on these roads. The mission
estimates that the time cost and user cost savings, as well as accident
prevention, during the two-year period of sea defense rehabilitation make
the construction of the diversion road over Kelley Dam worthwhile and
urgently necessary.



ANNEX 5
PAGE 3
DIAGRAM I
(0600 - 1800 O'CLOCK)
ALL VEHICLE COUNT
WEST                                        SEA WALL ROAD                                           EAST
1810*  770* c                                         + 1530* 440* *
2050* 1070* *        4-                                  178*e  8 s V*
0
U) 
CL  o            OR  HE  VHCE
**           ~~~~(Carts, Buses, Lorries, Cars, Vans)                         : I *
C) o     * * TWO WHEEL VEHICLES                                                   >   o
o 'o            (Motorcycles, Bicycles)                                            N 
DIAGRAM  2
53                              A.M. PEAK (0700 - 0800 O'CLOCK)                      69
PASSENGER CAR VOLUME
120                                   SEA WALL ROAD                                  384
-+88          79  _                                                                      74        210
4     141     305 4                                                                     399        584
2atsal:26                                                               \5           141t
2~~~S  ~85                                                                     1 5                  '200
a     (N
P                                                z PA  LO
32>  PASSENGER CAR VOLUME   3t
ui                 L~~~~~~U)
DIAGRAM  3
310                     ~~~~~~P.M. PEAK (1600 - 1700 O'CLOCK)
310                        ~~~~~~PASSENGER CAR VOLUME                      305
18                                  SEA WALL ROAD                                    97
435       414 -                                                                      402       578
37        63                                                                        106        209
15        1425                                                                                  273
,0tl:'2L~~~45                                               '0                                  1;: 1
0                                      -512
M C>                                      tn                        LU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
LU                           c 
I BRD - 5661






SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT  ARSEX 6
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
COST ESTIMATE
(G$'000)                      (US$o000)                Foreign
Description                           Loocal   Fbreign  Total        Local   Foreian  Total          Exchange
Construction
1. Sea Defenses Rehabili-
tation and Construction
(8,400 feet)                      1,390    2,090    3,480          695   1,045    1,740           60
2. Diversion Road                       168      252      420           84      126       210          60
3. Eight Drainage Outfalls              792    2,378    3,170          396    1,189    1,585           75
4. Engineering fees for sea
def enses; eight drainage
outfalls, detailed engineering,
preparation of tender docu-
ments and supervision (15%)         324      596      920          162       298      460          69
Floating Craft (IndLuding
Engineering)
5. Two tugboats (450 HP at
G$450,0O0)                          -        900      900           -        450      450          100
6. Three pontoons (500 T
capacity at G$175,000)              -        520      520          -         260      260          100
7. Six pontoons (250 T
capacity at G$LOO,OOO)              -        600      600          -        300       300          100
Slipway (Inclung
Engine-erinig)
8. One 250 T repair slipway              80      320      400           40       160      200          80
Steel Sheet Piles and Equipment
9. Pro curement of steel sheet
piles and ancillary equip-
ment                                _        i6O      360                    180      180          100
Sub-total                         2,754    8,016   10,770        1,377    4,008    5,385           74
Contingencies
Physical (14,)                      456    1,017    1,473           228      509      737          69
Price    (12%)                      364      959    1,323          182       479      661          72
Total Project Cost                    3,574    9,992   13.566        1;787    4,96    6.783            74






ANNEXv 7
SECOND SEA DEFENSF PROJECT
(GEORGETOVIN URBAN PROEC'TI-VEWORKS)
GUYANA
ES'TlIMATED SCHEDULE OF 0ISBURSEMENTS
IBN) Fiscal Year                                Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                       at End of Quarter
(US$ (00)
1971/72
December 31, 1971                                             90
March 31, 1972                                              559
June 30, 1972                                              1162
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                         1776
December 31, 1972                                           2543
March 31, 1973                                             3520
June 30, 1973                                              4288
1973/7)t
September 30, 1973                                         4710
December 31, 1973                                          4996






ANNEX 8
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
1.        The economic benefits directly attributable to the proposed proj-
ect are measured in terms of savings in (a) the cost of closing and rebuild-
ing the sea defense after each expected breach, and (b) the damages to
property due to inundation in the protected area described in Annex 4. These
savings are compared with the cost of the project which is designed to pre-
vent the breaches from occurring.
A. Benefits of the Project
2.        The direct economic benefits are a function of the following inter-
related factors:
(a) The probable occurrence of breaches;
(b) the timing of breaches;
(c) the magnitude of breaches;
(d) the number of breaches;
(e) the property damage due to breaches.
The Probable Occurrence of Breaches
3.        The existing sea defense embankments are covered with stone revet-
ments, but have no toe protection. When erosion starts, the sea defense is
in danger of becoming undermined due to the scouring action of the waves.
Once undermined, the sea defenses would collapse under their own weight and
breach. As long as the foreshore material covering the base of the revet-
ment is greater than two feet in depth, the probability of a breach can be
regarded as low. When this depth becomes less than two feet, however, there
is a medium probability of a breach. The undermining becomes critical, and
the probability of a breach is high, when the foreshore drops to the level
of the base of the revetment. As shown in Table 1, the level of the base
of the revetment varies in different sections of the sea defenses, and con-
sequently the critical level of the foreshore varies accordingly. The loca-
tion of these sections are shown on Map 6.
4.        During the coming erosion cycle, the foreshore at Georgetown is
expected to erode to a level of 43.0 GD. The critical foreshore levels
for five sections of the existing sea defense (Sections 1,3,4,5 and 8) are
higher than this level. Hence, severe undermining and breaches in these
sections car be expected.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
The Timing of a Breach
5.        A breach in a particular section will occur when the foreshore
erodes to the critical level for that section. As shown in Table 1, the
present foreshore level at Georgetown (1969) varies from 50 GD to 55 GD.
During the coming erosion cycle, the relatively soft top layer of the fore-
shore can be expected to erode rapidly. Below 45 GD, however, the fore-
shore material becomes more resistant. The rate of erosion at a specific
location can also be affected by the presence of objects such as groynes,
akmons, and tree trunks in the foreshore. Once the erosion cycle starts,
i.e. anytime after 1973, irregularities in the level of the foreshore and
localized erosion could cause an early breach. Hence, the construction
schedule for the proposed project is set up accordingly. Table 1 shows,
for each section, the years in which a breach can be expected to occur with
low, medium, or high probability. The probability of a breach in sections
2, 6, and 7, is low because their revetments already extend well into the
foreshore (40 GD), and thus are unlikely to be undermined during the coming
erosion cycle.
The Magnitude of Breaches
6.        The magnitude of breaches cannot be predicted.  A large breach
(800 feet or more), or multiple breaches, would be almost impossible to
close. The economic consequences would be disastrous since the protected
area north of the railroad would be under 3 to 4 feet of water for a pro-
longed period. If the breach could not be closed, this important part of
Georgetown would have to be abandoned. For the sake of providing a con-
servative economic evaluation, such a breach is not considered. Instead,
a repairable breach, such as the one that occurred at Enmore in 1958, is
taken as a model. This breach was approximately 500 feet in length, and
it took nearly three months and cost G$570,000 (USS285,000 equivalent in
1971 values) to close, and another G$500,000 (US$250,000) to restore.
The Number of Breaches
7.        For simplification, it is assumed that only one breach can be ex-
pected to occur in sections 1, 3, 4 and 8, and two breaches in section 5
(due to its length), during the coming erosion period.
Damages Due to Breaches
8.        Table 2 shows the probable damages to property (Annex 4) in the
protected area resulting from a breach. The percentages in the table are
based on the experience of the breach at Enmore in 1958, as well as from
the mission's field survey. Damages due to inundation could be expected to
reach G$6.65 million (US$3.32 million equivalent), or 2.5% of the total
property valuation, estimated at G$263.5 million (US$131.8 million equiva-
lent). This percentage would vary depending on the height of the tide, the
wave action, and the emergency measures taken. Hence, for sensitivity
purposes, 1.5%, 2.5%, and 3.5% of the property valuation are used in the



ANNEX 8
Page 3
economic evaluation. In addition, it would cost approximately G$1.00 mil-
lion (US$500,000 equivalent) to close the breach and restore the sea de-
fenses. It is assumed that real property values in the protected area will
increase at an average rate of 3% per annum, based upon the growth in per
capita income projected for Guyana.
B. Alternative Benefit Streams
9.        The alternative benefit streams shown in Table 3 are based on
the following assumptions:
(a) All six breaches occur during the high probability year
for each section, and property damage expected is taken
at 2.5% of the total valuation in the protected area;
(b) same as (a), but property damage is taken at 1.5%;
(c) same as (a), but property damage is taken at 3.5%:
(d) same as (c), but breaches occur earlier, when the
foreshore drops to the medium probability year;
(e) same as (a), but only one breach in section 5, and
no breaches in sections 3 and 8;
(f) same as (e), but property damage is taken at 1.5%.
When two breaches in the sea defenses are predicted for the same year, prop-
erty damages are counted only once, although there will be some additional
damage due to the second breach. Alternative (a) is based on the most
probable set of assumptions. Alternative (c) is the maximum damage assump-
tion, while alternative (f) indicates the minimum level of damage with the
minimum number of breaches. The results of the calculations based on these
alternative sets of assumptions are summarized in Table 4.






ANNEX 8
Thble 1
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
FORESHORF. DATA BY SEA DEFENSE SECTION
Year and Probability of_Bzeach
Section    Length       GD Level of Foreshore
Feet        1969    Danger   Critical           Low 2/       MediumY/   High
1          800           55       531./    53             1975           1977       1977
2          770           55       42       40             1975            -          -
3          870           53       48       46             1975           1980       1982
4          970           55       51       49             1975           1979       1981
5         2680           50      4a        46             1974/75        1979/80  1981/82
6          150           50       42       40             1974            -          -
7          630           50       42       40             1974            -          -
a         1530           54       46       44             1973           1981       1983
1/  This level is artificially high because foreshore material tends to
accumulate on the current side of a groyne.
2/  The probability of a breach is low in the year serious erosion begins.
3/  The probability of a breach is medium when the average depth of the
foreshore material covering the base of the revetment is reduced to
two feet.
)X/ 'I'he probability of a breach is high when the foreshore drops to the
level of the base of the revetment.



ANNEX 6i
'IWbie 2
SECONI) SEA DEFFNSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN mBAN PROTECTIVEP WRORKS)
GUYANA
VALUATION OF EXPECTED PROPERTY DAMAGE
(G Million)
Category                            Valuation        % Damage        Amt Damage
Residential
Land & Building                    155.6            1.5             2.33
Furniture                           18.7            1.5              .28
Vehicles                            10.9           10.0             1.09
Commercial
Land & Building                     13.3            5.0              .66
Stock                                 4.0          10.0              .40
Vehicles                             1.2            2.0              .02
Government & Institutions
Bulildings                          30.0            2.0              .60
Equipment                             3.6           2.0              .07
Power & Communication
Power Station                        5.0            5.0              .25
Telecommunication                    1.0            5.0              .05
Industrial                                3.5           5.0              .18
Recreational                              0.5          50.0               .25
Roads                                     5.0           5.0               .25
Water Supply, Sewerage, Power
Transmission                         11.2            2.0              .22
TOTAL                                   263.5           2.5             6.65



ANNEX ii
Table 3
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
GUYANA
BENEFIT-COST STREAMS
(in G$ 000)
Benefit AlternativesY
Year    Cost       (a)        (b)        (c)        (d)       (e)        (f)
1971    274
72   2202
73   2493
74
75
76
77              8940      5764       12117    12117        8940       5764
78
79                                             13794
1980                                             1)4148
81             10937       7362      14512    13512        9937       6362
82             11205       7523      14887                 9205       6523
83             10481      6523       14274
84
85
to
2002
1/ The six alternative benefit streams are based on the following assumptions:
(a)  All six breaches occur during the high probability year for each
section, and property damage expected is taken at 2.5% of the total
valuation in the protected area;
(b)  same as (a), but property damage is taken at 1.5%;
(c)  same as (a), but property damage is taken at 3.5%;
(d)  same as (c), but breaches occur earlier, when the foreshore drops
to the medium probability year;
(e)  same as (a), but only one breach in section 5, and no breaches in
sections 3 and 8;
(f)  same as (e), but property damage is taken at 1.5%.
When two breaches in the sea defenses are predicted for the same year,



ANNEX 8
Table 4
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PRoTECTIVE7 WORKS)
GUYANA
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Internal Economic      Benefit-Cost Ratio        Net Benefit
Alternatives!/    Rate of Return          Discount      Rate          (G$000)
10%         14%        Discount   Rate
10%       14%
(a)                    31.4                3.8           2.9         12195     7744
(b)                    23.9                2.5           1.9          6473     3634
(c)                    37.3                5.1           3.9         17765    11818
(d)                    43.9                5.6           4.5         20156    14251
(a)                    27.8                2.8           2.2          7766     4820
(f)                    20.0                1.8           1.4          3656     1770
1/  The six alternative benefit streams are based on the following assumptions:
(a) All six breaches occur during the high probability year for each
section, and property damage expected is taken at 2.5% of the total
valuation in the protected area;
(b) same as (a), but property damage is taken at 1.5%;
(c) same as (a), but property damage is taken at 3.5%;
(d) same as (c), but breaches occur earlier, when the foreshore drops
to the medium probability year;
(e) same as (a), but only one breach in section 5, and no breaches in
sections 3 and 8;
(f) same as (e), but property damage is taken at 1.5%.
When two breaches in the sea defenses are predicted for the same year,
property damages are counted only once.



GUYANA
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
(GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS)
PROPOSED CROSS SECTION
BOULDERS AVERAGE 650 kg.
o              30~~~~BULDERS ON SANDMAASTIC BASE
$  LOWWATER BERM
.SANDMASTIC GROUTED STON                                          4~~~~CRES
64.00 GD  BOULDERS                TOE PROTECTION~~~~~~OULER 75400~g
5,600 GD EVETMENT       550.D0 G.    D.  5600                      TE        CONLDERS 75-400 kgT.
CLAY SOIL/5Sg||
OF PROTECTED AREA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~GRDDFITR STE RTETO
SANDMASTIC GROUTED STONE LAYER                                       TREHEART 3  HEE PILE 5'10
ON          SLOP E AND BERM                                           (DEPESDING ON LOCAA FC   
NOT TO SCALE                                                                               BOE - YN FLT  F
S'          se 2h               5            20'  S'    26
6              30~~~~BULDERS                      TO  RTCIN60.00 GD
51.00 GD                         56/0 GD  REVETMENT      50OE GD 3TCTO                               TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION
AVERAGE ELEEVATION                                                     R=EM -                                         OF COFFER DAM
OF PROTECTED AREA|                                                                 /-      0.      G
KEY FOR NAMES USED IN SEA DEFENCE WORKS
SCALE                                                                                                                                              13RD - 5640(2R)
02463V   0 ' o   40 - o    5






64.0                                                   I    I     I               I            I
GUYANA: SECOND SEA DEFENSE  PROJECT                                                                     62.5  CRESTOFPROPOSEDSEAWALLS
62.0_
TIDE CURVES
(ELEVATIONS ABOVE GEORGTOWN DATUM)
60.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
60.0                                                                                                                                            1  0. 
580CREST OF EXISTING SEA WALLS
58.0
56.2  HrGHEST RECORDED TIDE
56.0
54.0
/   /    MEAN NEAP TIDE   MEA  SPRING TID
54.0                                                                                                                                              A
50.0  -                            1%                                                                  50.0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEORGETOWN
46.0                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46.3  BASE OF TYPICAL WALL
MEAN SEA LEVEL           50.5
MEAN HIGH WATER SPRING TIDE 54.6
MEAN LOW WATER SPRING TIDE 46.2
MEAN HIGH WATER NEAP TIDE  52.4
44.0              MEAN LOW WATER NEAP TIDE  48.5
42.0 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
42.0                                                I     l | {11         I                    J I  I  I  I          I     I    I                                       m
0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   1I  12   13   14  15   16  17   i8   19   20   21   22   23   24  25
HOURS
MARCH 71                                                                                                                                             BRD- 3929(2R)






GUYANA
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1 9 71           1                            1972                          1                             1973                         |
6        a                  1 2                                                       1 2                                                        1 2
DETAILED ENGINEERING-DIVERSION ROAD   B.n. prva   fetiedt
of Lo          fLo
Detailed engineering                          No   G   a
Construction drowings                                    *   *G    **  **   GI
Construction                                      I               mu  urn U G8         mG   D u
DETAILED ENGINEERING-SEA WALL
Detailed engineering & Construction
drawing     s & Supervision                   ME N   MG EE   El BIon    Ism     *D BNo     lNO DIsm DINS I   ING[   Ism DIs  Ism  G  Ism lGGl IG *G Ilo 11   pool E-  Gl UIa    l  Ism] iN   i
Preporation of Tender Documnents                        so  EI  EN
Approval of Bank                                                      MEN
CONSTRUCTION- SEA WALL
Prequolificotion of Tenderens & Bnrk approval                         IGG
Tendering-A,ard & Bank apprnv1l                                            *G  *B *O* 
Molvili.ation                                                                             IN  NON
Construction                                                                                                                                                                [NEI*** *    ****  ****      **  Ei  Uo   ** as
Denmobilization
DETAILED ENGINEERING-8 OUTFALLS
Detailed engineering & Construction
drawings & Supervision                              I ll Ni E N 11   NI 13 l ll lEE  l   ll                     ME  El  El lEE  El El l    EU  EU  EU  UK    lEE    l  lEE  EU
Preparation of Tender Documents & Bank approval .                   NE 1 
CONSTRUCTION-8 OUTFALLS
Prequalification of Tenderers & Bank approval                    i 
Tendering-Award & Bank approval                                                  * . *G l Ism
Mobili.ation                                                                                   *     **
Construction                                                                                         E     N M lIN Sol      NMI  NU EI              SoEU UEl NMI So     EllUE    ElElE
DemnobiIizotion                                                                                                                                                                               **       *
FLOATING CRAFT
Preporation of Specifications & Bank approval           *   **
PrecIua1lfication of Suppliers & Bank approval 
Tendering-Award & Bask approval                                                  o n 
Construction                                                                         lE     [  EA  GlG I  I' E t U E*  Et    El         n EI  EG ,G   EU EN    UN    l  l
DETAILED ENGINEERING-SLIPWAY
Detfiled engineering & Construction drawings
& Supervision                                             * I ,,         **   EU ,     EU ,      *.,  *fl ** , 1 1 ,,                I I I       1
Preparation of tender documents & Bank approval .1                    ** I 
CONSTRUCTION-SLIPWAY
Prequalification of Tenderers & Bank approval                        E* *C
Tendering-Award & Bank approval                                                  ** 
M.6ilination                                                                                     m
Construction                                 I              I                                                      UN 1      EU    l  El l   I   tl
Demobilization                                                                                     Im
STEEL SHEET PILES                                                                                                          I
Prequalification of Suppliers & Bank approval           *   ** 1i
Tendering-Award & Bank approval                        I          m                                                                        - _
IBRD-5641 (3R)






GUYANA
SECOND SEA DEFENSE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF WORKS, HYDRAULICS AND SUPPLY
...........   ...................................             .....................................  
MINISTER OF WORKS        j  ADVICE & APPROVAL
- - - - - - - -      SEA DEFENSE
HYDRAULICS & SUPPLIES    !                           7          BOARD
................"I ................................. 
PERMANENT SECRETARY
~~~......................  ..   . ......   ....eO
I
.......................   ......................  
CHIEF              A 
WORKS & HYDRAULICS OFFICE   +         ADVICE & APPROVAL
....................  ..     .... ........
DEPUTY CHIEF
WORKS & HYDRAULICS OFFICE
...................... I.......................
~~~~~~~~~~r_                                              .............. ........ | 
|PRINCIPAL ASSISTANT ||PRINCIPAL ASSISTANT    |I;CHEPRINCIPAL ASSISTANT          CHIEF E                 PUREWATERSPLY                  BUILDINGS       IOADS                     I  I    MECHANICAL             HYDROMETEOROLOGY
SECRETARY                 SECRETAR                  SECRETARY            HYDRAULICS DIVISION            DIVISION                   DIVISION                   DIVISION                & ELECTRICAL                DI
FINANCE                    WORKS                  DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                           DIVISION
SUPLIES, ACCOUNTS           ADMINISTRATION                      ING
AND AUDITS             AND PERSONNEL                PLAN
FUP ~~~~j I               _ II                                                                                                                                   .
WATER                                                                         SPECIALISTENGINEER
ADMINISTRATION                    ENGINEER                                        I SPECIALIST ENGINEER  .                                                     RESEARCH AND
*  GEFICER             ~~~~~~~STRUCTURAL DESIGN  ISEA DEFENSE                                        ISURVEYS
............... .    ...............  ...........    ................                 ...............'''''''''". ............... ..
............... I.i
;      DISTRICT
.     ENGINEERS
7.I.F+T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................
DRAINAGE ANDSEA DEFENSE                           ;       ;        MAJOR                           MINOR                       MANTNACECOASTAL
IRRIGATION              ;       STRUCTURES                      PROJECTS                        PROJECTS                                                       SURVEYS
STRUCTU E                                                                                                                ....................................
Ofe                             ................................. s     ..................................  .................................
;''     Offici.ks  presosible for sea defenses






A,AP I
-5'                                                             SO.                        GUYANA
P    Airport
$    Air strips or landing pools
Al                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Shipping roates
**' f   ~   SJ    d  \   "                    Roads
---------  TrGts
if 03nnumdc   ( wIcr;e   tf    Xf       <           #    ~~~~~~~~~~Rapids or faJlls
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.AE  C(VERE  BY MA
001fp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000  05
H   1RED BY MAP 2
-~~~~- A /0                                      ,                 ,   
X~~~~~~~~U ON- A-                                                                 M 
"''~~~~~~~~~~"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)   A   \W      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X            tw                                          t      0FllEelrFt}Hop
J    Bon V#StCX           WK~~~~~~~~her%______!   5$                                      )
J i / i X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F }  t
a~~~~ R> A> Z I                                                                                                v
\  a   Y  a                                   2          ,2                li  7~~~~~~~~~~~ 1  2  30  40  50
MARCH 1971                                                                                                               IBRD - 2307R






GUYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROGRAM  EAST DEMERARA  COAST                                                                                                                                                                                   MAP2
AMILES
1        0        1                   3        4 r
LA BONN' INE NTION
LUsIGNAN ESTArES                                                         1L0V-
ESEA DE051S A    D FE                                                                                                    N o.
Seoldetnta 1 area             l         l         i         R          h  Water level                                                            EROSION AND RREACHES                        ,                       | irrigaEeRO N  areaCHES
el  SUoRroicac ns  tooter            ~                              S-  E tall embakISTINO                                                       presion   cFOde) CyClic erosion attacks                                               \     
toad                                                        C       Stuacage our let                                                   V         Los-a  traSiRt (190S O45t
Ia-r-I-    RailwAy                      L_                                  12RD projD  c  sea p -j-                                                     Areas floaerd by  -ea  wat-r after brench
*       Draicage BD.                                                         Other - rojects sea aalt  1O8-71 PROGRAM                              1      rea-a-ffected by sra water after breacb
. . . . .   i-h. -b-rt     - ottt                                             sO        Sea defesse administtative section                                                           )
= eE Z-72 PROSRAMr
.ARCH 17a1tI eh                                                                                                                                                                                lRD   2379R
MARCH  1271                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R-559






GUYANA
SEA DEFENSE PROGRAM WEST COAST DEMERARA                                                                                                                                MAP3
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 3 
 /                                                                                                                                   '    MILES
--1 F  C r              1           0           1            .         3
5 g ! II I                                              4                                                      R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOvMETERS
a,       TSSCI~IEN 
PARIKIA          VERGENOEGEN-BONASIKE
,.  /             Drainage nn~-d irrigation A...    lJ        I T                     SB  I A  Ie
~~~1cE~~~ ~ &                                   Ia 2   T(                   TATE |<
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,' C n  /     i                                                                                   L  .E1 0 N   O R A
'S       tl                  /            S T A  T
G~~ /                                                   A>                      <
SEA bFEFENSES                        /                                   a,
=   R esid ential  area                            _.  High  water  level R-
j;j     Sugar factary                                      ,     e   alEX5IG(
-g-, l-, ~~~~~~~ea,t ....-                                   EXISTINS;                                                              ....
Road                                                  Drainage outlet
_    IBRD project ea wall/
4+  Railway,'o 
Iz~  I yOther pr-j-ct- sc wall    1968-71 PROGRAM
Earth embawk-ent                                          SR   Sca def-ese ad.inistrat-ve se-tio-
SEat wall k-t            1972-79 PROGRAM
IBRD 2308R






GUYANA
GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS
GREATER GEORGETOWN LAND USE CATEGORIES
- -           Limit of Greater Georgetown Area LAND USE CATEGORIES:                      Government 8 Institutionol Area
-   -_  -Limit of Georgetown Urban Area           Residentiol 8;Minor Commercial Area     - i ndustril Area
Moin Access Roads         *        .-Central Business District      ,       Agriculturol Greenbelt
Railway                               Cemetery                              Recreational Area
MAP 4
A TZ ANTIC                  OC E A N
N____ 
If~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:;:"m'';: 01~~~~~''
Si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
:~~~~~~~~~ ECn   X E 
l /e      1/2            0             1/2 
LAPRIL  1S71                                                                                              IBRD    3370R






MAP 5
GUYANA
GEORGETOWN URBAN PROTECTIVE WORKS
1763 WATERFRONT & EXISTING SEA DEFENSE
A TL A NTIC   OCE A N
DEFENSE
E~~~E
0          1/2 
Miles
MARCH 1971                                                IBRD- 3371






FOR  LD 6 KFlASE RE>,R TO
ANY7" V OF THE P?ZSIDE.WT' S REPORT.



