Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24799
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34660; SCL-3466A)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$130 MILLION
TO
POLAND
FOR A HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 10, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = PLN
I PLN = US$ 0.2385
US$ 1.00 = PLN4.1913
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCO           Consortium Coordination Offices
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC            European Community
EU            European Union
GUS           Central Statistics Office
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOH           Ministry of Health
NPIU          National Project Implementation Unit
OECD          Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PLN           Polish Zloty
ZUS           Social Insurance Institution
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:    Annin H. Fidler
Task Team Leader:    Marzena Kulis



POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                     I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6. Sustainability                                                                  15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 18
9. Partner Comments                                                                19
10. Additional Information                                                         19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              32
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                33
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                              34
Annex 10. Borrower Contribution to the ICR                                         36






Prqoject I: P008587                                      |Pro/ect tvame: HEALTH
Tewm Leader: Marzena Kulis                                TL U'nit: ECSHD
I(.R Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILMf) ofICR           Report Dae: October 11. 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH                                         LJC.YTF Number: CPL-34660;
SCL-3466A
Counnry/Department: POLAND                                                Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Health (100%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/14/1990                              Effective.  10/15/1992        01/15/1993
Appraisal:  10/16/1991                                MTR: 09/30/1994            01/31/1994
Approval:  05/07/1992                               Closing: 06/30/1999          03/31/2002
Borrow er/lmplementing Agencv:  REPUBLIC OF POLAND/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners:  EC/Phare
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:      Roger W. Grawe                            Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:       Armin H. Fidler                           Ralph Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:   Marzena Kulis                             Mary Eming Young
ICR Primaty Author:   Marzena Kulis
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcomne: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank PerJbrmance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qualitv at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The communist legacy left Poland in want of fundamental structural reforms, including health sector
reform. A Government of a communist-majority and "Solidarity"minority was forrned in 1990, and the
Joint Govemment and World Bank Task Force on Health System Reform prepared a strategic framework
for initial health reform. The Government placed high priority on improving health status of the population
while realizing that the necessary reforms cannot be immediate. To alleviate the results of the political,
economic, and social transition from communism, the Government reached for health improvements that
would reverse the poor social conditions while protecting the most vulnerable groups. The following were
prepared: (a) a National Health Promotion Strategy, 1990; (b) a Health Care Institutions Act, allowing
establishment of private practice and private sector provision of health services, passed in 1991; (c) a
Pharmaceutical Act, increasing cost recovery, redefining entitlement and introducing criteria for a limited
drug formulary, passed in 1991; and (d) the Health Care Provisions under the Local Government Act,
strengthening the decentralization efforts and making local governments increasingly responsible for
financing and provision of health care, passed in 1990. This lack of appropriate legal framework would
later be detrimental to the Project achievements because the Consortia did not have the authority to manage
their finances. To support the Government's efforts the World Bank staff designed a project supporting
key health sector development needs and reform priorities. In 1992, a loan was approved for the Health
Services Development Project (henceforth called the Project) and the objectives were to: (1) improve health
status by strengthening- health promotion and prevention programs; (2) support the first steps in
restructuring the health sector by shifting the focus from the institutional care to effective primary care
through better trained primary care doctors and nurses; (3) strengthen institutional capacity in policy
making, planning, management, and evaluation by providing managers access to improved information
systems and management education; and (4) ensure sustainability of services and control costs in the health
sector in the medium-term by improving effectiveness, efficiency and quality of service delivery in three
Project regions.
The Project ran into implementation difficulties early on and was subsequently restructured twice, in 1994
and 2000. It closed on March 31, 2002, 4 years after the original closing date. Although the Project's
objectives remained the same, its components and allocation of funds changed after each restructuring.
Therefore, the Project is presented here in its three phases:  Phase One (1992-1994), Phase Two
(1994-2000), and Phase Three (2000-2002).
3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.
3.3 Original Components:
There were four original components with fifteen subcomponents during Phase One (1992 - 1994).
1.     Health Promotion Component was to help improve the overall health of the population through
promoting good health practices and strengthening preventive care programs. Its sub-components were to:
(a) bolster the capacity of the National Board for Health Promotion to design health promotion strategies
through the production and dissemination of health promotion and educational materials; (b) help in the
design of health education curricula and training for health educators, health professionals and non-health
professionals (such as journalists) at four health training institutions (School of Public Health at the
University of Krakow, the National Institute of Hygiene, the Institute of Occupational Medicine at L6dz
and the Institute of Cardiology); and (c) develop occupational health standards and workplace inspection
guidelines as part of the program to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Institute of Occupational
- 2 -



Medicine at L6dz.  The Project financed technical assistance, training, fellowships, equipment and
materials for the entire component. This component supported Objective 1.
2.     Primary Health Care Component aimed to train family doctors and provide medical equipment
and furnishings for primary care practices. Its sub-components (a) supported the development of primary
care training in existing medical academic institutions in the three Project regions and provided medical
equipment to help establish family care practices and (b) supported the upgrade of in-service training for
teachers of family medicine in selected teaching hospitals and community clinics. The Project financed
technical assistance, in-service training, fellowships, medical, office and audio/visual equipment, materials
and computer hardware and software for the entire component. This component supported Objective 2.
3.     Health Management Component was to provide health care managers with tools and information
essential in running health care institutions in a more effective and efficient way. The six sub-components
were to help in: (a) developing a standardized, nation-wide system monitoring hospital admissions and
discharges; (b) introducing national financial accounting standards for the health sector; (c) developing a
computerized pharmaceutical monitoring and quality control system for pharmacy outlets operating in the
public sector; (d) budgeting of the recurrent health expenditures and setting capital investment priorities for
the voivodships; (e) strengthening the institutions, programs and information resources needed to train
health care managers; and (f) carrying out feasibility studies on health financing issues and approaches.
The Project financed technical assistance, in-service training, fellowships, office equipment, computer
hardware and software, and other materials for the entire component. This component supported Objective
3.
4.     Regional Health Services Component supported the initial phase of health care delivery system
decentralization through the development of Health Consortia on a pilot basis. The Consortia were
regional health care organizational structures that grouped ten existing voivodships into Ciechan6w,
Pomerania and Wielkopolski Consortia and were designed to improve efficiency, quality, and
cost-effectiveness on local and regional levels. They were to achieve this goal through: (a) developing the
regional management structure; (b) upgrading the infrastructure and equipment of primary care and
institutional care facilities; (c) improving the admission and discharge information and accounting at the
regional level; (d) developing a regional pharmaceutical monitoring system and (e) improving the
technology to contain cost and the management of materials. The Project financed technical assistance,
training, medical and other equipment, computer hardware and software, and civil works for the entire
component. This component supported Objective 4.
3.4 Revised C.omponents:
3.4.1 Phase Two (1994 - 2000)
Already in January 1994 a Bank mission discovered that "the basic project design of four components and
15 sub-components is unwieldy, fosters duplication, and results in too much effort going in too many
directions without having the desired focused impact" (Aide-Memoire, World Bank Supervision Mission,
January 4 - February 8, 1994, p.2). Although strongly related to achieving the Project's objectives, the
complexity of components exceeded the administrative and financial management capacity of the
implementing agencies. Additionally, despite a thorough Project preparation, the momentum of early
implementation was lost because there was no Bank mission in Warsaw while the ownership of the Project
was minimal. Continued lack of counterpart funds and no legal structure for the performance of the
Consortia further hampered the effort.
Since the components' tasks were not being implemented and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
- 3 -



(henceforth called MOH) now wanted to introduce the first three Project objectives nationwide, the Bank
and the Borrower agreed to restructure. No Board approval was necessary. The Project was therefore
downsized and simplified to avoid unnecessary overlap between national and regional components. The
schedule was tightened to create incentive and some funds were eliminated to make the implementation
more realistic (see section on Cost and Financing). On the one hand, the focus remained on the Consortia
(the regions were greatly interested in taking the Project forward) and, on the other hand, health
management development was to be carried out on a national scale.
1.    Regional Health Services Component provided support for decentralization and strengthening of
health services at the regional level. Its three sub-components included the following: (a) Health
Promotion, which continued to assist the Consortia in the promotion of better health practices, including
education and counseling programs that addressed critical and preventable health risks resulting from
tobacco and alcohol consumption, unhealthy diets and occupational hazards (the Project financed technical
assistance for the design of health promotion strategies, fellowships, and equipment to produce and
disseminate health promotion and education materials); (b) Primary Health Care, which continued to
support the expansion of the family physician role in primary health care and the reduction of patient
reliance on expensive specialist care as a first preference (the Project financed equipment for primary
health care centers and in-service training for nurses and other health care workers related to primary health
care); and (c) Development and Upgrading of Regional Health Facilities, which supported the
development of health facilities in the consortia, including upgrading of infrastructure and purchase of
essential medical equipment. This component supported Objective I and 2.
2.     Health Management Development Component amassed Project support for developing and
strengthening management of the health care system. Its three sub-components were as follows: (a)
Management Training, in addition to in-service training and a number of fellowships, was to provide
training in health care management at both undergraduate and graduate level at one university in Krakow
and one in Warsaw; it also aimed to develop health management training programs focusing on health
economics, health services management, human resources management, and business administration.
Management Training was also to be carried out at a local level targeting middle-level managers in district
hospitals and in primary health care; (b) Management Support Systems continued the Project support for
the design and implementation of national hospital admission and discharge information and accounting
systems in the Consortia and selected hospitals in other regions; (c) Monitoring and Evaluation continued
the assistance for the design and implementation of a pharmaceutical monitoring system with the aim of
ensuring that national standards are adapted to local needs and focus on quality assurance and inventory
controls. This component provided technical assistance to develop indicators for monitoring Project
outcomes, based in part on the results of a study on the National Burden of Disease, also financed under
the project. This component supported Objective 3 and 4.
3.4.2 Phase Three (2000 - 2002)
The 2000 restructuring added two high priority activities to the original Project activities list, extended the
deadline till March 2002 and cancelled $5 million. In this restructuring the Project evolved, upon the
request from MOH, from simply delivering equipment to providing soft product of managerial training and
technical assistance. The Project provided a stronger support to the budding health strategy and thus began
to play an even greater role in the institutional development of Poland.
When the new Government took office in late 1997, MOH reviewed on-going project activities and
proposed a number of options for utilizing the remaining uncommitted loan funds (23% of the loan). It is
worth noting that a coherent health strategy started to emerge at that time, thus the continuation with the
-4 -



Project was also to support the developing health strategy.
In close consultation with the Bank, MOH worked extensively to prepare detailed terms of reference,
equipment lists and tender documents for new activities proposed under the Project. Initially, the Bank
actively opposed some aspects of the proposed health insurance reform, and declined to agree that project
funds could be used to support it. The Bank advised the Borrower not to pursue with the health insurance
reforms without substantial preparation on the side of all involved stakeholders. Regardless of this advice
the Govemment introduced health insurance reform in January 1999. This initial disagreement with the
proposed reform path and the resulting strained sector dialogue contributed to the virtual cessation of
disbursements for about a year's time beginning in early 1998.
After continued policy dialogue including strengthening the proposed reforms in terms of financial viability
of the system, protecting the interests of consumers, and agreeing on additional training and analytical work
on a number of issues, the project resumed operations, but too late to finish the activities before the Loan
closing date. Hence to continue to provide World Bank financing for these activities and to continue to
assist Poland's reform effort, the Bank supported an additional closing date extension and restructuring.
One activity which was essential to the successful completion of the Project and at least useful in a
successful continuation of the reform was software procurement. The software not only provided admission
and discharge records and information about the use and distribution of pharmaceuticals, but it also laid
foundations for eventual homogenized computerization of all health facilities, making them integrally
included in the health system. Without continuation, the great effort put into launching health facilities
toward a new kind of management would have been wasted. Additionally, the problem with the decision
about the desired design of the software finally appeared to be solved.
All of the new activities (see description of the revised components below) to be completed during the final
stage of the Project were fully consistent with Project objectives. Although the overall project objectives
remained the same but since the new activities to be financed during Phase 3 were not planned at the time
of Board approval of the loan (8 years prior), Board approval of the restructured project was considered
essential.
Revised Components:
1.     Health Promotion and Prevention Component continues the health promotion strategy from the
previous Phase: (a) Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening was a 12-region pilot that was to develop and
test a program attempting better efficiency in cancer screening; (b) Cardiovascular Disease - National
Health Screening Network, (c) Local Health Promotion and CVD Prevention Programs that involved
inter-sector cooperation in the local health promotion and CVD prevention infrastructure development. This
component supported Objective 1.
2.     Upgrading Long-Term and Palliative Care: (a) training projects - the Project provided financial
support to newly launched long-term care centers (nursing homes/units, long-tern care and treatment units
and palliative-hospice care units).  These centers were established by a process of restructuring
autonomous public health care centers according to the health reform plan. This program included training
for managers, trainers, long-term care nurses, physicians and nurse for palliative and hospice care units;
and, (b) equipment purchase. This component, carried out on a national scale, supported Objective 4.
3.     Training in Health Care Management: seven training activities included training for top and
middle level managers and local health policy-makers, as well as the development of case studies on related
topics and a production of a guidebook and a website. It also included monitoring and supervision of the
-5-



contracts implementation. This component supported Objective 3.
4.     Support for Health Care Reform. In 1997 and 1998, work on health reform intensified and three
subcomponents supported its efforts: (a) Training for the Sickness Funds Staff, which included manager
study tours to Germany, the Netherlands and Estonia, basic training for sickness funds staff and specialist
training for council members, as well as postgraduate training in public health; (b) Technical Assistance in
(1) development and implementation of National Health Accounts to show the actual health expenditures
in Poland and relate it to OECD levels while providing technical methodology for a Poland-specific NHA
system; (2) standards for purchasing services under health insurance through the analysis of services
purchased under the national health insurance system for individuals (appraisal of prophylactic, diagnostic,
therapeutic and rehabilitative efficiency of selected group of services), the development of methodology for
cost-effectiveness evaluation and medical technology evaluation; (3) assessment and diagnostic tools for
priority setting to assist in decision-making about the health needs of the population through a development
of data-needs diagnostic tools, data-collection protocols and analytical tools for assessing cost-effectiveness
of interventions; (4) development of Diagnostic Related Groups (DRG), which was to create Polish DRG
to use by the Sickness Funds as a basis for purchasing health services from hospitals and was to prepare a
set of Diagnostic Related Groups for the potential use of hospital financing in Poland; (5) private sector
initiatives in health insurance and health facilities - this study was to define the general implications and
management strategies in the private health sector of the Polish health care market. It assessed the effect of
private health insurance on revenue mobilization, purchaser/provider split, and infrastructure requirements
necessary for managing and implementing the statutory responsibilities of the Supervisory Office for
Health Insurance; (c) Public Information Campaign on Health Sector Reform which was to inform the
public about the Government plans in the health sector. Although the activities of this sub-component were
progressing, the MOH terminated the contract with the firm. As a result, this sub-component was
cancelled. Support for Health Care Reform component supported Objectives 3 and 4.
5.     Application Software Component was to strengthen health management through the use of an
information system enabling modem data exchange between health centers within the national health
insurance scheme (admission/discharge and pharmacy module). This system enables monitoring of
hospitalization costs, provides admission and discharge records, helps with tracking pharmaceutical
distribution and use, and facilitates reporting. This component supported Objective 3.
6.     Procurement of Ambulances Component supported the Government Integrated Emergency
Program to improve effectiveness, efficiency and quality of care in the emergency medicine and to lower
road death statistics. The Project allowed the purchase of ambulances and additional emergency equipment
such as defibrillators and respirators. This component supported Objective 4 although not in the Consortia.
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
The Project design and implementation planned for early post-communist years reflected Poland's great
need to implement substantial changes in its infrastructure and to do so thoroughly and professionally. The
Project fit appropriately into the overall health reform and the loan was highly relevant at the time of
signing and early implementation. The Bank's safeguard policies were in place. Project's objectives were
consistent with the Govenmment priorities as they would support the economic reform by "improving health,
strengthening the sector's contribution to the social safety net, and containing upward pressure from the
health sector on the state budget" (Report No. P-568 I -POL, p.2). The Project reflected the concentration of
investments in the three health consortia in support of decentralization. Thus the loan had a significant
potential because of timing and the interest of regions to decentralize.
However, the situation in which the Project was being developed was difficult for several reasons. First,
- 6 -



inflation and unemployment were high and infrastructure was in a state of disrepair. Second, democracy
was nascent and political reality was complicated. The division in the newly elected Government (year
1990) constituting of many different parties from former socialist leftist party, through leftist Peasant Party
finally to newly formed central - rightist party was not ready to pursue with many very serious reforms as
proposed by the Project such as decentralization for example. There was also a strong urge in the new
govemment administration to desperately get rid of old solutions and use only new ones to break with the
past. The Bank advised not to destroy the whole system but rather to build on existing foundations such as
for example idea of ZOZ (zaklad opieki zdrowotnej - integrated health care facility). In parallel, the Bank
felt that the Ministry of Finance is more of champion of the health reforms than Ministry of Health in fact,
at the very beginning of loan preparation. Finally, no act was passed that would allow a proper functioning
of the Health Consortia.
The Bank did not fully understand the discrepancies between the formal power structures and the actual
dependencies, based on personalities and networking. Because of the inner power play and lack of
experience with international aid, MOH had difficulties in developing ownership of the Project despite the
overall Government's commitment to changes in the health sector and the fact that the objectives were
important for the sector and tailored to the Polish reality. This initial lack of ownership and the weak
administrative implementation capacity of the Borrower, as well as the complexity of the original
components made their swift achievement unrealistic. The poor implementation capacity of MOH was in
fact listed as a risk to the Project: staff had no experience with Bank procedures, was generally not well
qualified and the salaries in the public sector were low, causing high turnover. The Project overwhelmed
the implementing agencies, both at the NPIJ and in the regions. The Bank, based on experience from other
projects in transition countries prevented an even deeper implementation crisis by recommending
recruitment of international experts to support local staff and experts.
With the loan going into effect in January 1993 the Project was to close in 1998. The original scope of the
Project included three Health Consortia (Ciechan6w, Pomerania and Wielkopolski regions), which grouped
10 voivodships and approximately 6 million people, 16 percent of the population) where the components I,
2, and 3 were to be implemented first to maximize impact. Additionally, elements of the three components
were to be put into operation selectively, in stages and to a certain degree nationwide. At the time of the
design and early implementation, the Project was not intended to be a road map to the future reforms but
was to assist in balancing the budget and reducing the social cost of adjustment to the new economic
reality, then in crisis. Further increasing public expenditure by uncontrolled financing of health services
could have compromised the overall reforms in Poland at that time. However, the Project intimated that the
proposed objectives were only a part of a larger health reform to be developed at a later stage when the
MOH develops a health strategy, which took place in late 1997.
Today, the Project objectives remain substantially relevant to the strategic development of Poland, as
confirmed by the CAS 2002. Further improvements in health care would strengthen the effectiveness of
public administration and contribute to growth and job creation. However, the current economic program is
not very specific on how the country will proceed with health reforms and how it would increase the
institutional capacity and governance to achieve goals in health care. Specifically, because of inefficient
resource allocation and insufficient fiscal discipline, arrears of the health facilities to the suppliers are
cleared at a very slow rate and finally the areas of the Sickness Funds are growing rapidly. Cost
containment and quality enhancement is needed especially in hospital care. Primary care, although greatly
enhanced, still is unevenly distributed; similarly with specialist care. Health promotion continues to be low
so more programs of this kind would help enhance health status.
-7-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconte/achievement of objective:
First and foremost, the Project has been a vehicle toward a reformn of the health sector in Poland and has
enabled the Bank to engage in an active policy dialogue in the sector. The project is rated satisfactory and
the benefits from the Project's support the health reform components were achieved in a substantially
efficient way while other components became model operations. It has not yet been possible to assess
improvements in the quality of health care or cost effectiveness of the entire system because the Project just
closed. By project closing, however, achievement of development objectives were considered satisfactory
in general although during the life of the Project many subcomponents were added, altered, or removed,
providing varying contribution to the achievement of objectives. The subsequent analysis is largely
descriptive and based on output achievements as -the key performance indicators were not established for
Project activities. (The key project indicators were not a requirement for the project at the time of project
preparation in 1991.) The objectives were achieved specifically as follows:
Objective 1: Improve health status by strengthening health promotion and prevention programs
Outcome: Satisfactory
This project objective was achieved through a series of satisfactory health promotion programs at the
regional Consortia level including education and counseling programs that addressed critical and
preventable health risks resulting from tobacco and alcohol consumption, unhealthy diets, and occupational
hazards as well as three model/highly satisfactory nation-wide programs: Breast and Cervical Cancer
Screening Demonstration Program, Cardiovascular Disease - National Health Screening Network and
Local Health Promotion and CVD Prevention Program all three being evaluated by the experts as best
practices to follow by other countries both in terms of the knowledge creation and dissemination, capacity
building as well as adequacy of addressing the most salient public health issues in the region.
Objective 2: Support the first steps in restructuring the health sector by shifting the focus from the
institutional care to effective primary care through better trained primary care doctors and nurses
Outcome: Satisfactory
The achievements of this objective continue to support the Government's efforts to expand and improve
primary care in particular basing on the primary care training conducted in existing medical academic
institutions in the three project regions, medical equipment provided to help establish family medicine
practices, creation of a model cascade system of family medicine through training for teachers of family
medicine provided in selected teaching hospitals and community clinics, and finally upgrading of number of
primary care institutions and providing equipment for number of primary health care facilities.
Objective 3:  Strengthen institutional capacity in policy making, planning, management and
evaluation by providing managers access to improved information systems and management
education
Outcome: Satisfactory
This objective was achieved through (i) development of a standardized system monitoring hospital
admissions and discharges in 237 large hospital nationwide, preceded with delivery of hardware, (ii)
development of a computerized pharmaceutical monitoring and quality control system for Pharmaceutical
Department of MOH and National Institute of Drugs providing those institutions with the capacity to
monitor quality of the pharmaceutical use and distribution, (iii) development of training programs for
health care managers of all levels and local health policy-makers and provision of the training to several
-8-



thousand managers increasing their qualifications to apply financial, human resources, marketing,
organizational and other tools in their day-to-day operations, (iv) development of series of trainings for
Sickness Funds staff including study tours, basic training for all employees of the Sickness Funds system,
training for Sickness Funds council boards members and finally postgraduate university program in health
care targeted initially to Sickness Funds employees, (v) provision of technical assistance on issues related
to private sector role in health insurance and health care provision.
Although national financial accounting standards for the health sector were not developed under the project,
the Government has developed the relevant regulations and legislations from its own resources during the
Project implementation. Management training at undergraduate and graduate levels in two Warsaw and
Krakow universities, alongside with other training activities raising qualifications of health managers
designed for the Phase Two of the Project, was not completed in those 2 centers, however while the Project
was being restructure, the School of Public Health in Krakow has been providing number of training
programs supported both by the Government as well as other donor agencies and the Health Services
Development Project took on the assumption of this activity and supported development of the
Postgraduate Program in Warsaw in the Phase Three of the Project which has been evaluated highly by its
beneficiaries.
Objective 4:  Ensure sustainability of services and control costs in the health sector in the
medium-term by improving effectiveness, efficiency and quality of service delivery in three project
regions.
Outcome: Satisfactory
This objective initially targeting the three Consortia regions have been achieved in the regions as well as
later in the Third Phase of the Project through the nationwide programs. Although the idea of Consortia has
not been put forward as the Government was planning to implement the administration reform, and
eventually the newly established regions as well as decentralization of the health care to regions and even
lower level of government followed by hospital autonomy and privatization of primary health care fulfilled
the objectives of the model Consortia regions as assumed by the Project including improvement in the
health care management, greater autonomy for the health care facilities, strengthen role of the primary care
especially family doctors and greater emphasis on the health promotion. Many associations, groups and
initiatives sprung from the initial experience and they continue to build a local health community despite the
fact that the initial idea of creating viable health organizations was not continued.
As the effort on improving the effectiveness, efficiency and quality of service continued in the Project after
the Consortia closure in 1998, the Third Phase of the Project resulted in number highly satisfactory
Technical Assistance deliverables that are being used or motivated the decision makers to further sector
improvements. These include (i) setting up National Health Accounts system that is a requirement of the
European Union statistics en enabling the actual presentation of the health care expenditure in a country
and enhancing informed decision making process, (ii) development of the health services standards that are
purchased by the public purchases - insurance fund. The Project has contributed to the development of the
guidelines and sets of recommendations that are further discussed, (iii) development of the tools for health
priorities setting at the local government level. This technical assistance showed the possibilities and
choices in health priorities design to local governments who perform such priority setting. The activity has
been successful in alerting the local structures to their role in health priorities planning and showed through
local interest that more training could have been performed; (iv) and finally development of Diagnostic
Related Groups outline and that could serve as a basis for preparing the DRGs for the hospital
reimbursement system.
9



This component has also led to improvements in effectiveness, efficiency and quality of care in the
long-term care segment of health care as well as in the emergency medical services through supporting
creation, equipping and training the long-term and palliative care institutions throughout a country as well
as supplying the emergency medical services systems going through the process of reforrns with the new,
upgraded and well equipped ambulances.
4.2 Outpuits by comnponents:
1. Health Promotion Component in the Phase One and Two promoted good health practices and
strengthened preventive care programs. This component, performed nationwide, produced health
promotion programs for schools, anti-smoking campaigns, health promotion programs for the
workplace, nutrition education and information of preventing accidents and injuries at home. Radio
programming and seminars co-financed by WHO and a Congress of Health Promotion were also produced.
It assisted the Consortia in better health practices promotion, including education and counseling programs
that addressed critical and preventable health risks resulting from tobacco and alcohol consumption,
unhealthy diets, and occupational hazards. The activities of this sub-component, while presenting a
standard health promotion approach of producing and disseminating basic health promotion and education
materials resulted in a clearly defined presence of health promotion in the public domain. These results
continue to be relevant for the current improvement of health status.
2. Health Promotion and Prevention in Phase Three (2000 - 2002). Cost: USS 4.12 million
Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening: cost US $663,406. 90,000 women were screened at 12 screening
centers equipped in mammography and cytology equipment, unified software system and quality
control systems.
Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening program developed, tested and evaluated a 12-region pilot for
breast and cervical cancer screening. As a result of screening at 12 model centers, interpretation of
radiology reports became standard, reporting improved (training of screening staff becamne mandatory),
quality control of radiology procedure improved, cross-check for objectivity was introduced, safety of
manmography machines also improved. Moreover, the program raised awareness that a follow up visit of
tested women is important. Additionally, Data Computer Center for breast and cervical cancer was opened
at the Institute of Oncology. The implementation quality of this program meets the European Union
requirements making the program suitable to be a model for other countries. In Poland, MOH plans to
establish more screening centers to include all women still in need of such testing.
Cardiovascular Disease - National Health Screening Network, cost US $308,000. Produced Data Books
based on anthropometric measurements, eating, drinking and smoking habits and medical history. Two
screening centers and Data Computer Center were established.
Cardiovascular Disease - National Health Screening Network. This program performned a survey of two
regions (screening centers were established in Warsaw and Tamobrzeg) to assess the risk factor levels of
CVD in the Polish population. It also compiled data that is now used by health decision makers in policy
decision on reduction of morbidity and mortality from DVD. MOH plans to use the results of the program
and the Data Computer Center at the Institute of Cardiology in accordance with its National Health Care
Strategy.
Local Health Promotion and CVD Prevention Programs, cost US $325,000. 120 people in 2 voivodships
and 30 gminas were trained and the project experiences were included in a book, Programs in Health for
Local Comminities, which is to serve as guidebook to activation of gminas in the health sector.
-10-



Local Health Promotion and CVD Prevention Programs involved inter-sector cooperation in health
promotion and CVD prevention infrastructure development at local level in 30 gminas. As a result,
communities were activated to care for health and do so on legal basis. Local government was empowered
to act for its community because it could formalize their action in contracts and acts of law. Also, local
project coordinator position was transformed into a health promotion position within the structures of local
goverunent, making health promotion a fixed element of government work. These communities involved
non-health sectors in their cause and built coalitions amongst themselves. These networks and coalitions
exist and cooperate today, setting an example for many more communities without such programs.
3. Primary Health Care Component trained family doctors and provided medical equipment as well as
furnishings for primary care practices. In the regions of the Consortia, where primary care is distributed
most evenly, 272 family practices were established and equipped with support under the Project. These
family practices cover a population of close to 800,000 in the three regions.
4. Development and Upgrading of Regional Health Facilities Component, which supported the
development of health facilities in the Consortia, upgraded the infrastructure and purchased essential
medical equipment. Over 70 hospitals and clinics received new medical and hospital equipment, which
varied from basic equipment such as stethoscopes to sophisticated equipment such as MRI machines (these
were provided to teaching hospitals).
5. Monitoring and Evaluation computerized the Pharmaceutical Department of MOH while the
National Institute of Drugs received measuring and monitoring equipment.
6. Upgrading Long-Term and Palliative Care. Cost: VSS 4.6 million
900 nurses and 40 doctors were trained to work in nursing homes facilities, long-term care and treatment
units and in palliative and hospice care units; cost US$ 600,000 equipment purchase, cost US$ 4 million:
the Project equipped 106 long-term and palliative centers and 33 hospice care units with hospital,
medical and rehabilitation equipment. Items such as anti-bedsore mattresses, lifts, trolleys and walkers and
personal hygiene kits were purchased. Medical equipment included syringe infusion pumps, ultrasonic
inhalators, oxygen concentrators, electrocardiographs and stimulators, and rehabilitation equipment for
multipurpose therapy rooms.
7. Management Training was designed to strengthen the institutional capacity in health management. In
the early stages of the Project, it financed workshops and conferences for managers. In Phase Two it was
fairly inactive. As the result of Phase Three (cost: US$ 2 million), 4,828 top and middle level managers
participated in the trainings that increased their qualifications which enabled them to be actively involved in
the health sector; the courses in which they participated were highly motivational and updated continuously
according to current needs, training for 1,085 local politicians, a print production of a book on hospital
and financial management (2000 copies), a web page and a listing of health care management training
centers (2500 copies in Polish and 500 in English). In addition, 3 books for family doctors and Training
of Tutors in Family Medicine in two editions were published and a Flagship Course for high and middle
level govemnment officials was financed.
8. Training for the Sickness Funds Staff (cost US $1.6 million) included manager study tours to
Germany, the Netherlands and Estonia 2 groups 30 people each, basic training for 1,500 sickness funds
staff including development of self-training materials that can be further disseminated and used by other
members of the system and training for 340 sickness funds council members, as well as developed
- 1 1 -



postgraduate training program in public health and financed participation of 60 senior health officials in
the first round of the training. This training was a part of support for the health insurance system (Sickness
Funds) which estimated a need for about 3,000 employees.
9. TechnicalAssistance (cost: US$ 2.1 million)
The National Health Accounts system (NHA) activity was intended to show the actual health expenditures
in Poland and relate it to intemational results. The Project allowed the preparation of a financial analysis
and the production of a Polish manual for the system which is a basis for the OECD and EU statistical
requirements for its member countries.
Standards for purchasing services under health insurance: the Project allowed writing of seven reports
and five articles for medical journals, the findings of which were presented at conferences. The project
assessed 490 potentially useful technologies. In the situation where the Sickness Funds made purchases
without clearly defined specifications there is a need to define a benefit package grouping services with a
proven beneficiary impact on health.
Priority setting - assessment and diagnostic tools: seven manuals of tools developed under this activity
(1500 copies and 3000 CDs) were produced. In a system which bases its development of decentralization,
local health priorities should be defined by local governments. This technical assistance showed the
possibilities and choices in health priorities design to local governments who perform such priority setting.
The activity has been successful in alerting the local structures to their role in health priorities planning and
showed through local interest that more training could have been performed. Also, the CD Rom presenting
the results of the project needs to be continuously developed and updated and for that a mandate from
MOH is needed.
Development of Diagnostic Related Groups (DRG), which was to create Polish DRG to use by the health
insurance scheme, compiled 170,000 patient records from 9 hospitals in two regions. Despite difficulties
in choosing the right case mix system for Poland and despite some implementation problems, the results of
this technical assistance are based on Polish experiences, both medical and cost, which is commendable.
Medical data were gathered in part through improved computer systems in hospitals and are considered
professional. Gathering of cost data was less successful because few hospitals were able to define costs
associated with their patients
Private sector initiatives in health insurance and health facilities - this study defined the general
implications and management strategies in the private health sector of the Polish health care market. The
reports have been developed, discussed and disseminated to the broader public.
10. Application Software Component (cost US$ II million) was to strengthen health management
through the use of an information system enabling modern data exchange between health centers within the
national health insurance scheme (admission/discharge and pharmnacy module). Cost US $11 million. The
success of the proposed health financing reforn depends in part on the system's capacity to identify and
track hospitalization records thus pressure to purchase hardware and software during the Project life was
substantial. This system provided admission and discharge records, helped with tracking pharmaceutical
distribution and use, and facilitates reporting. By the Project closing, software was being installed and
implemented in 237 hospitals were staff was also trained.
11. Procurement of Ambulances Component (cost US $ 4.6 million) supported the Government
- 12 -



Integrated Emergency Program to improve emergency medicine and lower road death statistics. The Project
allowed the purchase of 94 ambulances and additional emergency equipment such as defibrillators and
respirators.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic Rate of Return is not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial Rate of Return is not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Two objectives of the Project had institutional character: Objective 2 (support the first steps in
restructuring the health sector by shifting the focus from the institutional care to effective primary care
through better trained primary care doctors and nurses) and Objective 3 (strengthen institutional capacity in
policy making, planning, management and evaluation by providing managers access to improved
information systems and management education) aimed to provide enabling environment for changing
behavior and stressed the importance of skills upgrading, better information systems, planning and policy
analysis. The institutional development impact of both was substantial. In primary care, the concept of
family and primary care doctors has taken root changing the patients' perception of health care. In training
of health management staff, the Project provided the sector with increased human capacity to function
without overwhelming foreign expert management and develop initiative of their own. People's skills have
been improved while educational centers adopted health management training curricula to train more people
and are doing so independently.
The overall institutional development impact of the Project is substantial. The Project has greatly
improved Poland's ability to make effective use of human resources in the health sector and also increased
its capabilities in financial management. During Project initial implementation Poland had no experience in
managing international aid; now the country handles finances and implementation, both in the public and
the private sectors with an abundant presence of civil society organizations. Some of this ability has been
improved over the years of Project management. In project management, the capacity of the NPIU
increased making the team fully capable of handling programs in the future in a transparent and predictable
way. Consortia, although not existing any longer, fostered a good environment for a development of
organizations and associations that are still using the experiences and networks of people from the time of
the Project. There is further activity in health promotion and awareness programs, and the local community
has been generally empowered. The equipment purchased for the Consortia, especially for the family
doctors, enabled the medical personnel to perform their jobs. However, special beds for palliative care were
not procured which made the otherwise very successful component vulnerable to passing without
significant institutional development impact. Yet, the component managed to make some long-term and
palliative care units independent and innovative. The fact that staff was trained and formed home care
networks is very important and making a considerable impact on the institution of health care in Poland. It
also cannot be understated that there is a great interest in the nursing community in palliative and long term
care education, reflected in the increasing number of appropriate courses. While it is not possible at this
time to evaluate technical assistance, if MOH follows with the positive results of the activities, there is a
significant likelihood of their impact. In sum, the Project facilitated a positive change in thinking about
health care in Poland.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Facto-s outside the control of government or intplementing agency:
The changes of government were frequent which adversely affected the Project implementation. Bank
- 13 -



requirements clashing with Polish requirements slowed progress. Problems with procurement existed
because neither MOH nor the implementing agencies were knowledgeable about it, while the Bank was not
able, at least for some time, to facilitate solutions. The Project co-financier EC/PHARE (whose delegation
in Poland was as understaffed as NPIU at that time) and the Bank had a difficult time communicating;
therefore, the Primary Care component initially progressed very slowly. Moreover, the decision to hire a
Westem consulting firm, justified by a lack of local expertise, conflicted with the Government's belief that
employment and training of local staff would have increased the Project ownership and deepened their
distrust toward Westem experts.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government, although supporting a variety of acts that allowed the Bank to be involved in a Project in
Poland, did not support the law that would in effect lead to an independent fiscal functioning of the
Consortia. As a result, the Consortia never fully developed their capabilities. The Government was
reluctant to give up its hold on the regions, which at first showed through the position of NPIU: the
authority was not clearly delegated from the MOH to the implementing agencies. Start-up of project
implementing agencies, NPIU in MOH and the three regional consortia was affected by delays in formally
establishing these entities and in integrating them into the sector institutional framework. More delays were
caused by poor flow of funds and inadequate counterpart funding. Each change of ministers necessarily
precluded a long leaming curve, sometimes the Project was entirely misunderstood - ministers often
suggested far-reaching changes in the Project not reflecting strategic thinking. Such misunderstandings
partially resulted from low visibility of the Project and the lack of Borrowers ownership. It has to be stated,
however, that the ownership greatly increased in the last phase of the Project and eventually brought it to a
successful completion.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The principal implementing agencies were NPIU and the Consortium Coordination Offices (CCO) in each
of the three regions (these offices were dissolved together with the cancellation of the Consortia in 1998).
The quality of management in NPIU varied during the life of the Project and NPIU could have played a
more effective management role if it had recruited additional, experienced staff, especially during the early
and middle years of implementation. Hiring of experienced staff was often impossible due to lack of such
available expertise in Poland at that time. High staff turnover at the managerial level influenced the
decision making because constant changes of managers resulted in scarcity of clear political partners and
diminished the possibility for consensus building. Momentum of the Project implementation could have
been better maintained if the position of the NPIU director was that of a senior team leader with access to
senior people in the MOH. Staff in general were receptive and willing to learn, although the learning time,
especially related to Bank procedures, TOR writing and procurement, was significant. At the time of early
implementation this was due to inexperience in any project. It seems that the Bank overestimated the
capability to learn. Nonetheless, both agencies were responsible and committed.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total Project cost was estimated at US$ 227 million equivalent at appraisal, of which S130 million was
Bank loan; Government contribution was to be US$ 72 million. The European Commission contributed an
equivalent of US$ 10.8 million.
The sum of US$ 227 million was to be distributed as follows (according to the Staff Appraisal Report,
each sum includes local and foreign aid):
Health Promotion - US$ 7.5 million
Primary Health Care - USS 38.3 million
Health Management - US$ 46.3 million
- 14 -



Regional Health Services - US$ 3.4 million
Physical Contingencies - USS 15.7 million
Price Contingencies - USS 28.7 million
As a result of the first restructuring in January 1994, a sum of US$ 30 million of the Bank loan was
cancelled. Disbursement remained slow until the end of 1994 (only US$ 5.2 million was spent by then from
the beginning of the loan). By the end of 1999, US$ 56.9 million was spent and US$ 20.1 million was
committed. After the second restructuring in 2000 funds were reallocated to reflect that the total Project
cost was US$ 133.2 million, including an estimated US$ 44.6 million in financing by the Govemment and
the Bank loan in the sum of US$ 88.6 million.
The financial changes to the Project during the second restructuring were as follows:
1)     a new health care reform component: add $12 million (of which $7 million for equipment)
2)     a new health care management component: add $2 million
3)     an existing health promotion component: add $4 million (of which $3 million for equipment
4)     add $1 million for evaluation and monitoring
5)    reduce primary health care component by $11 million
6)    reduce funds for medical equipment not related to the above components by $5 million
7)    reduce management training and support systems by $4 million
8)    reduce by additional $5 million (unneeded resources)
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability razing:
It is likely that achievements generated in relation to the Project's objectives will be maintained after the
Project's support has been withdrawn. The Project results show technical, financial and economic resilience
in the current conditions. The current Government proposed in March 2002 a National Health Care
Program with its goals for 2002 and 2003. The Project objectives remain relevant and supportive of the
Program as evidenced in the Program's plans to:
continue the development of family medicine through support of education programs
further consolidate the role of the primary care doctor by making it an integral part of emergency
medicine
support home care as a part of a primary care program
employ hospital admission/discharge module and pharmacy module nationwide to control health costs
and improve effectiveness, efficiency and quality of care (these plans will be presented to the public)
strengthen prophylactic care in CVD and oncology and support health promotion (breast and cervical
cancer screening centers continue their programs and the government plans to build more centers; CVD
data is used extensively
introduce cost analysis of health services
involve local communities/regions in defining health priorities through their cooperation with the
National Health Fund (which will replace Sickness Funds)
restructure and privatize some of the country's hospitals to improve effectiveness, efficiency and
quality of care (the remaining hospitals will be public health centers also supporting improved care). At
the same time, privatized health facilities will only be included in cooperatives or foundations after the
Minister of Health agrees to such restructuring
increase quality of care through a system of accreditation and quality standards and the improvement of
health practitioners qualifications
Additionally, health promotion in local communities has a very high probability of sustainability because it
- 15-



became part of routine actions of each gmina. Social impact has been the greatest in these local
commnunities due to the fact that the benefits of the Project were secured through a local act of law. The
locals' incentive to continue is the possibility of influencing their own local reality and health care design.
Also, information systems, although implemented late are likely to have impact.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The actions proposed by the current government in health strategy and project results explained in section
above constitute a transition arrangement to regular operations. However, such regular operations depend
on policy environment. The policy environment has changed several times since the Project inception but
since 1997-8 there has been a substantial development of a coherent health policy and the changing
governments continue the policy in greater or lesser degree. Additionally, in the last few years the
Govemment assumed ownership of the Project and its objectives. Other stakeholders are very involved in
operations resulting from Project achievements and attempt a dialog with the Govenmment. The last
Govemment was firmly committed to continuing to improve the quality of health care and services
throughout Poland, also because of the EU accession requirements. The current MOH in the social left
Government claims its continuing commitment to decentralization and fulfillment of EU conditions.
Yet some movements show that there is, if not a reversal, then at least a tum in perception of how funds
should flow in the health sector. The current Government has dismantled the national health insurance
scheme as proposed by the previous political option; instead, the MOH is proposing a different structure
that will, nonetheless, use the staff trained for the Sickness Funds. The decision to abolish Sickness Funds
is, in the opinion of MOH, dictated by the desire to strengthen health strategy of Poland, strategy which
was undermined by the often detached actions of the Funds. The National Health Fund, which is to replace
the Sickness Funds, will have control over the financial plans of each of its 16 regional offices, and the
Minister of Health will have a direct control over allocation of funds. The MOH will appoint the council
members of each region to make the health services delivery policy uniforn throughout the country. The
regional offices will be on the voivodship level and local govemments will participate in the
implementation of health policy. The health priorities, however, will be decided on voivodship level.
While Poland has built essential institutional support for the ongoing health reform, the social support for
the reform objectives and Project achievements has varied. Low salaries, weak incentives for health care
workers and fear of lay-offs have caused distrust toward the current health reform. Broader public feels
insufficiently informed about the future of health care which may adversely affect sustainability of Project
achievements.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Although some suggested at the time of the ICR evaluation that an adjustment lending loan would have
been more appropriate, it seems from the proven implementation capacity of the Borrower that the loan
should have had a form as it did. Thus the lending instrument and the lending process were satisfactory.
The Project design and implementation fit appropriately into the overall health reform and the loan was
highly relevant at the time of signing and early implementation. The Bank's safeguard policies were in
place. Project's objectives were consistent with the Government priorities
However, the political situation in Poland in which the Project was being developed was not conducive to
smooth and quick project implementation. Because of discrepancies between the formal power structures
and the actual dependencies, based on personalities and networking the Project was delayed. The
- 16 -



implementation capacity of MOH was weak. The Health Project was one of the first in the region and
Poland, local experience was developed during the course of implementation.
7.2 Suipervision:
During implementation, the Bank assessed problems with implementation and development impact in a
timely fashion. However, the Bank actions following identification of problems were not always swift.
Periods of inactivity, resulting from Bank long procedures (specifically long procurements), caused the
cooperation to appear inconsistent. Such periods were perceived as secrecy about the process and lack of
Bank interest, neither of which were true nor desired. The Bank has been flexible in restructuring the
Project and adapting it to meet the changing needs of the health sector, although for the most part it
remained solid in its requirements.
In terms of expertise, high turnover of the Bank staff responsible for the Project diminished the possibility
to develop a stronger working relationship with the Borrower. Yet the expert level of the consultants
supervising the Project was generally high which is especially visible in the quality of some components.
For example, in health promotion of Phase Three Bank performed admirably: expertise was superior and
intemational models were used, making the Project progress swiftly. The Bank, however, made a mistake in
not being firm when the Borrower first suggested buying hardware before the software was even designed.
As a result, hardware was put to different use than the Project intended and the equipment became outdated
for the planned software, delaying the component implementation.
The Bank paid attention to fiduciary aspects of the Project to ensure appropriate financial management
except for one case: financial reports prepared by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank over the years
were found to be inadequate in August 2000. As a result financial progress was not well documented and
financial issues had to be investigated before the Project could get back on track.
Bank supervision resources changed over the life of the Project. Supervision was initially very intense with
seven supervision missions during the first two years of the Project, later declining to one to two per year.
Supervision intensified in 1998, but focused heavily on health policy issues. Supervision reporting quality
of the Project has been uneven.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall performance of the Bank is satisfactory, although uneven. The Project was thoroughly prepared
and its components adequately addressed the priority sector issues identified by the Task Force. However,
the objectives, as expressed through Project components, were not simple and manageable enough for the
Borrower's implementation capacity and the Project had to be restructured (albeit without changing
objectives). Funds were cancelled which also shows initial weak implementation capacity of the Borrower.
However, the fact that the Bank did not have a permanent representative in Poland at the early Project
stages adversely affected its implementation. Also, at the preparation stage, the Bank could have provided
more guidance in how to build political support for a project in a transition country like Poland.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At the time of Project design and early implementation, MOH was not fully ready to implement and the
cooperation with the Bank was very difficult at the beginning. However, there was great enthusiasm to
continue with the Project which eventually strengthened the Project implementation leading to moderately
satisfactory performance.
7.5 Government imnplementation performaance:
- 17-



Due to frequent changes at the ministerial and NPIU management level, the learning curve was long and the
cooperation between MOH and the NPIU was often tense. There were at first problems with primary care's
equipment for the use by the family physicians but once the Borrower accepted the concept, implementation
went smoother. Regarding information systems MOH could not, for many years, decide what it wanted,
which stalled the component often and for very long periods. During the first years of the Project
management training was not a high priority but with time MOH saw the value in investing in knowledge,
and requested training. MOH was very willing to receive TA and there is hope that the work will continue.
On the other hand, MOH did not take ownership of Consortia (albeit the concept of regionalization was not
discredited) thus it did not assist in their development or sustainability.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Bank did not have negative experiences in cooperation with the implementing agency. Although the
NPIU was established with difficulty due to a shortage of experienced and qualified people, the team grew
to be knowledgeable, effective and responsible. Staff changed often so the momentum was sometimes
uneven but the NPIU always supported the Project and fought for it through MOH bureaucracy.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance of the Borrower is satisfactory. The Borrower would have performed much better
had it proposed a health strategy earlier. MOH displayed lack of Project ownership which affected how
components were carried out but this situation greatly improved toward Phase Three. The Borrower also
learned to responsibly comply with agreements and covenants which improved the level of achieved
objectives.
8. Lessons Learned
1. Simple project design can go a long way. The complexity of the original components may have been
a result of the Bank following a "golden opportunity" or "now or never". The post-communist
environment, with its necessity to reform all aspects of the country's economy, presented itself as an
-ideal moment to build a health system from scratch yet today it seems that smaller projects would have
been more beneficial to the overall development. The plans to accomplish all Project objectives in such
scope and scale ran into problems when the implementation capacity of the Borrower proved
insufficient. Poland's formal structures were rigid and not fit to serve Project needs. The lesson
learned leads to the conclusion that the smaller steps or a more compact Project would help avoiding
implementation bottlenecks.
2. The value of Government ownership can not be understimated. A Project which is not firmly placed
- within a coherent health policy designed by the Borrower will have more of a physical rather than
institutional impact. Physical output will substitute outcome, which in turn might diminish the impact
of institutional development. This Project yet again reinforced the importance of Govemment's
ownership in the Project financed activities and reforms supported by the Project.
3. Public information and dissemination ofproject activities and progress can enhance project impact
. Through such publicity, Bank operations might be better understood by the broader public. More
importantly, however, a public information campaign can increase project ownership by making the
Government more accountable to its citizens for project results.
4. Sustainability of training activities is linked to proper selection of participants. Lower and middle
level staff are less likely to be laid off when new govemment comes to office thus knowledge remains in
- 18-



the system. In contrast, top management is vulnerable to changes of governunent.
5. Community Empowerment is key. Introducing a legal requirement, generated at local level, to enter
all decisions into local acts, guarantees that even with a change of govemment, the project framework
remains as designed and the activities would be continued. In such process, local communities become
empowered to take local health matters into their own hands.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
"As described in more detail in Annex 10, Health Services Development Project (HSDP) has been
successful. It developed the basic infrastructure for a wide reform of a health care system and supported
Government efforts to improve accessibility, quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of health services. The
Project strengthened health promotion capacity, improved the quality of primary health care, strengthened
management capability in the health sector through information system development and management
training and improved the efficiency of health services in three decentralized regions of Poland.
All targets were achieved although the content and realization were changed during the Project
implementation which was lasted 10 years. An important lesson from HSDP is that a project should be
planned for shorter periods that would fit the planned changes of government. At the beginning, more than
two years were dedicated for preparation of the project implementation and its management performed by a
very expensive Canadian consulting company. Currently, the challenge is how to sustain the achievements
of the HSDP. Regardless of the direction of the health care system strategy, the purchased equipment and
trained people remain within the system. The targets of the Project were achieved and gave basic tools for
decision makers on different levels of health care system to improve the services delivered for the
population. The first stage of reform was implemented and would be continued especially in the domain of
Polish law and system adaptation to the EU requirements."
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Performance Indicators were not established for the Project.
Components                             Objectives of each component
Health      Phase 11 (1994 - 2000)
Promotion     Addressing critical and preventable health risks resulting from, among others, tobacco
and alcohol consumption, unhealthy diets and occupational hazards through health
promotion and prevention activities - MET
Phase III (2000 - 2002)
Developing, testing and evaluating a 12 region pilot for breast and cervical cancer
screening of 90,000 women -- MET WITH DISTINCTION
Developing a national cardiovascular disease network to assess risk factor levels of
CVD in the Polish population starting with results of two model screening centers --
MET WITH DISTINCTION
Developing a local infrastructure for health promotion and CVD prevention in 30
gminas - MET WITH DISTINCTION
Primary Care Phase 1 (1992 - 1994)
Conducting primary care training in existing medical academic institutions in the three
Project regions and establishing family care practices -- PARTIALLY MET
Pase 11(1994 - 2000)
Expanding the family physician role in primary health care and reducing patients'
reliance on expensive specialist care as a first preference - MET
Upgrading the infrastructure of primary care and institutional care facilities -- MET
Phase III (2000 - 2002)
Providing training for teachers of family medicine in selected teaching hospitals and
community clinics -- MET WITH DISTINCTION
Information  Phase 11 (1994 - 2000)
Systems    Creating capacity for the Pharmaceutical Department of MOH and National Institute of
Drugs through the development of monitoring and quality control system for the
harmacy outlets in the public sector -- MET
Developing cost accounting standards as a measure of cost control - PARTIALLY MET
Phase III (2000 - 2002)
Developing a standardized system to monitor admissions/discharges and pharmaceuticals
use in 237 hospitals -- MET
Health     Phase 11 (1994 - 2000)
Management Creating undergraduate and graduate programs in health management at two Warsaw
Education   and Kracow universities - PARTIALLY MET
Phase III (2000 - 2002)
Increasing qualifications of all level health managers and local health policy-makers
(over 5000 people in total) through courses and materials distribution --MET WITH
DISTINCTION
Providing newly created Sickness Funds (health insurance scheme) with staff through
manager and basic level training (about 2000 people) -- MET
Introducing a concept of private sector in health care through a study and a public
discussion - PARTIALLY MET
Effectiveness,  Phase 11 (1994 - 2000)
-20 -



Efriciency and  Enabling the Consortia to function integrally and independently as to create effective
Quality of   and efficient collaboration between the decentralized centers of care through passing a
Service     law allowing such functioning -- NOT MET
Delivery:   In the Consortia, strengthening health management, launching health promotion and
prevention programs, supporting primary care development through providing the
Consortia,   necessary environment -- PARTIALLY MET
Technical    Developing and upgrading of health facilities in the Consortia through upgraded
Assistance and  infrastructure and procurement of essential medical equipment for over 70 hospitals
Procurement   and clinics -- PARTIALLY MET
of Equipment
Phase III (2000 - 2002)
Ensuring health care cost control through the development and continued use of
technical assistance programs (National Health Accounts, standard of health services,
health priorities and DRG) -- PARTIALLY MET
Supporting the new Government Integrated Emergency Program through an initial
procurement of 94 ambulances and other equipment - MET
Improving long-term and palliative care through upgrading of facilities (106 long-term
and palliative centers and 33 hospices were equipped in hospital, medical and
rehabilitation gear) and training of professional staff (900 nurses and 40 doctors) -
MET
There were 21 general activities in total, of which:
S;     5 met their objectives with distinction
Sk     8 met their objectives
>      7-partially met their objectives
>      I did not meet their objectives
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Financing by Componen tv() (in US$ million ec uivalent)                            _________
-  {~~~~~.,  --  ~~~~AcnuaiLLatest 
C  nent *-  ~ isiiEattmate Rescruct~~rI~~lLEsrimare  Estimare  Percentage of iPbrai1 -P Preientt  fRstutrn
Bank       COE'. (  Bank Go%t. CoF  Bank Goau. CoF  Bank  Govt.  C&F..- . Bnk  Gv   CoF
Health Promotion  5.4  2.1  0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.1  0.0   0.0  1.90/  0.00Db  0.00/c  NA  NA      NA
Primary Health C.r  10.3  17.6  10.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0   1.0  1.0%/  0.0%/ I 0.0%  NA     NA     NA
or   HealthMNanagement  33 5  8 5 ,43   00   0 0   0 0  3 8   0 0  0 5  1.0   00o     16     NA     NA     NA
ri  e In Healih Services 52.5  380  00 0  0   0 IoI             ) L%o3000 00%6           NA     NA     NA
S.b-Tta.W - ! . 101.7. .66.2r J4.7: o.o: . 001  O0.'  I 71  I.7    5 17 *777%1 io05%- iiNAi  N~NA,.' 'NA
AO~I?ti~S~ O~  SM30iniJlion %~w cano ieDd -and-Prdject was restrusdtured toD2 n0o c m1ot&t e,
>Regional Health Semices  0 0  0 0  01)  52 9  36b7  10 4  3 17 !3.. 95_ NA  NA   NA    599%o  227 500. 91 3%
r  Health 1Management 
Dc%eloprnem     0 0   0 0  0 0  47 1  2i 7  4 4  26 8  10 5  4 4  NA    NA     NA    56 9%  40 9'  10(O0%
Sub-T6~j ~*  -~.o - ... .  "100062.41 A4 8 158.5 '.0  13.9: -NA.N' ~  A    85~~I06~~39-
Health   :n~~~~~pi~~rwUSS5 ms n wa canceDd aitd.Project' rstrcuctured to relet] addtioalacti"vites 
HeltPromotion and -    -    --               -    -    -     -     -
Prevention     0.0   0.0  0.0  5.5   0.5   0.0  5.0  0.5   0.0   NA    NA     NA    90.90/o 100.00/a  N A
Upgrading Long-Termn and
-. Palliative Care  0.0  0.0  0.0   4.6  0.7   0.0   4.6  0.7   0.0  NA    NA     N     10./c100.00/c   NA
ZTraining in Health Care
Management      0.0  0.0   0.0  2.3   0.0   0.0  2.4  0.0   0.0   NA    NA    NA    104.3%   NA     NA
Support for Health Care
Reform        0 0   0 0  0 0  2 9   0 0   0 0  2 9   0- 0  0 0  NA    NA     NA   100 006  NA     NA
ni  Ap,plication Soft~are  0 0  UO  0 0  10 9  1 2  0 0  10 9  0 0 tO00   NA   NA     NA    100 00c  0 00c  NA
-  Procurement of
Ambulantces     0 0  0 0   0 0  4 7   1 0   0 0   4 7  1 0  0 0   N A   NA     NA   100 0% IOOOcoW  NA
O..  ''.o .O.;,  d-g -                                           --.-. `_;
-Sub-Tota        0     0   0. 11      34        -3J0..3O5. `22  0.0  NA :--NA.:;NA : 8.:7%, ';-%   -- NA-
TOTAL                      -..-.    -.>         909.      13.9   -           .-,-
'Total Project Costa at Appraisal equaled to 227 million USD including 44.4 mnillion USD in price and physic-al contingencies not allocated to Project components.
- 22 -



Project Costs by Component (2) (in US$ million equivalent)
P-.-XAppraisal    AciuallLatest   Perceniage
PrOject.Cost by Component      .      Esimate         Estimate          Of
.                        :- ^-IUS$ million   US$ million     Appraisal
Health Promotion 2'                 7.5              6.0            80%
Primary Health Care(2"'3)             38.3             15.1           39%
Health Management '"                 46.3             46.0           99%
Training in Health Care Management           -               2.4           104%
Application Software                  -               12.1          100%
Regional Health Services              90.5             129.1          142%
Upgrading Long-Term and Palliative Care         -              5.3           100%
Support for Health Care Reformn                            2.9           100%
Procurement of Ambulances                -               5.7           100%
TOTAL                         182.6            224.6
1/ The total Project costs do not include price and physical contingencies (total estimated Project costs
including contingencies equaled to 227 million USD).
2/ Total Actual Project costs equaled 224.6 million USD. The total Project Costs covered by the Loan
amount to 89.9 million USD. The remaining financing came from the Government and other financiers.
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Ar angements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)X5)
Pr-ocurement -Method -            Total
Expeinditure Calegory                -          M                      Cost
JZ.                  ICB     LIB, .:- LCB   OTHER       N/A-
Technical Assistance, Training                         47.9      12.8      60.7
and  Studies                I__  _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
Medical/Office Equipment,   64.8    1.5               3.0      3.6       72.9
Computer Hardware       (64.8)   (1.5)            (2.5)     (0.0)     (68.8)
Computer Software, Books,                            13.3                 13.3
AV/Training Materials                             (13.3)               (13.3)
Civil Works - Upgrading &                   38.9                8.6       47.5
Consolidation of Health                   (0.0)              (0.0)      (0.0)
Facilities__                                           _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Incremental Staffing                                         2.9       2.9
Building/Equipment Operation                                     27.7      27.7
& Maintenance/Supplies               _   _                    (0.0)     (0.0)
Non-salary Operational Cost                                     2.0        2.0
64.8    1.5     38.9     64.2      57.6      227.0
TOTAL              (64.8)   1.5)    (0.0)   (63.7)     (0.0)    (130 .0
* Figures in brackets are the amounts disbursed under the IBRD loan.
-24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in USS million equivalent) (5)
Procurement Mleihod               - Total
Expenditure,Category                        -                       : -  . Cost
x -   -  . -.         ICB     LIB      LCB-   OTHER        N/A
Technical Assistance,                               16.7
Training and Studies                               (16.7)                16.7
Medical/Office Equipment,   58.3                       3.3       5.5       67.1
Computer Hardware       (58.3)                     (3.3)      (0.0)
Computer Software, Books,            10.9              0.7                  11.6
AV/Training Materials            (10.9)             (0.7)
Civil Works - Upgrading &                    66.9
Consolidation of Health                    (0.0)                          6.
Facilities                          (-)       _66.9
Incremental Staffing                                          3.9        3.9
9                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(0.0)
Building/Equipment                                           21.3
Operation &                                               (0.0)      21.3
Maintenance/Supplies
Non-salary Operational Cost
58.3    10.9     66.9     20.7      30.7       187
TOTAL              (58.3)  (10.9)   (0.0)    (20.7)    (30.7)     (89.9)
(1) Financing of each component was appraised at the beginning of each phase of the Project. The phases
were: Phase One (1992-1994), Phase Two (1994-2000) and Phase Three (2000-2002).
(2) These components were the original, restructured or added components in all three phases of the
Project. The amounts shown are a sum of Government and foreign resources.
(3) This amount includes Government resources contracted through the NPIU; it does not include resources
transferred by the Government, Sickness Funds and local authorities directly for the Project
implementation.
(4) This amount shows money spend nationwide and in the Health Consortia.
(5) figures in brackets are the amounts disbursed under the IBRD loan.
-25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 -No.of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
.(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
April 1991                   2    Public Health Specialists
I    Health Services Specialist
I    Med. Technology Assessment
Specialist
2    Sr. Implementation Specialists
I    Health Information Specialist
I    Health Financing Specialist
I    Operations Officer
I   Chief, Human Resource
Operations
Appraisal/Negotiation
October 1991                 1    Public Health Specialist
I    Sr. Implementation Specialist
I    Health Economist
I    Health Services Specialist
I    Primary Care/Medical Education
Specialist
I    Information Systems Specialist
I   Legal Counsel
January, February            I    Health Economist
1992                         1   Chief, Human Resource
Operations
I    Implementation Specialist
Supervision
June 1992                    1    Public Health Specialist
I   Sr. Implementation
3   Specialist
Health Promotion Specialists
November 1992                3   Health Promotion Specialists        S            HS
I   Public Health Specialist
I   Operations Officer
I   Health Planning Specialist
I   Public Health Advisor
I   Chief, Human Resource
Operations
February 1993                1   Operations Officer                  U             S
I   Sr. Population and Health
Specialist
I   Health Economist
I   Public Health Specialist
I   Health Planning Specialist
- 27 -



May 1993                      1   Operations Officer                   U             U
/ Special Advisor on Information
Technology
I   Sr. Population and Health
Specialist
I   Health Economist
I   Health Specialist
November 1993                 1   Task Manager                         U             U
I   Chief, Human Resource
Operations
January/February              I   Task Manager
1994                          1   Sr. Health Economist
June 1994                     1   Task Manager                         U             u
December 1994                 1   Information Systems Specialist       U             U
April 1995                    J   Task Manager                         S             S
/ Health Economist
October 1995                  1   Task Manager                         S             S
I   Operations Officer
I   Information Systems Specialist
I   Team Leader
March 1996.                   /   Task Manager                         S             S
2   Operations Officers
August 1996                   1   Task Manager                         S             S
I Operations Officer
September 1996                1   Information Systems Specialist       S             S
October 1996                  1   Task Manager                         S             S
1   Sr. Health Specialist
I   Team Leader
February 1997                 1   Task Manager                         S             S
I   Team Leader
September 1997                1   Team Leader                          S             S
I   Information Systems Specialist
December 1997                 /   Social Sector Leader                 S             S
I   Health Specialist
I   Operations Officer
January 1998                  2   Health Consultants                   S             S
I   Operations Officer
October 1998                  1    Human Development Sector            S             S
Director
I   Sr. Health Specialist
- 28 -



Operations Officer
December 1998                1   Sr. Financial Sector Specialist   S             S
I   Social Sector Operations Officer
August 2000                  l   Sr. Health Specialist             S             S
I   Task Team Leader
February 2001                1   Sr. Human Development             S             S
Economist
I   Task Team Leader
I   Health Sector Manager
I   HD Economics Sector Manager
ICR
August 2002                 /    Health Specialist                 S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estirnate.
.__________________________      No. Staff weeks             US$ t 0c0 )
Identification/Preparation                 *                           *
Appraisal/Negotiation                      *                           *
Supervision                            248.3                       745.0
ICR                                      12.0                       10.0
Total                                  260.3                       755.0
*Data not available for earlier stages of project preparation.
- 29-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H   O SU O M   O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                      O H   * SU -O M  O N  O NA
M1 Physical                            O H   * SU O M   O N  O NA
Z Financial                            O H   O SU   M   O N  * NA
z Institutional Development            0 H   * SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
?JEnvironmental                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction              O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Z Gender                         O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
J Private sector development           0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H   * SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)              O H O SU O M     O N  O NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory. S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank perjbrmance                                 Rating
0 Lending                                            OHS*S        OU     OHU
z Supervision                                        OHS OS       0  U   O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating-
X Preparation                                        OHS OS       OU     O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS O S     O  U   0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS      O  U   0 HU
Z Overall                                            O HS*S       O  U   0 HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
BOARD DOCUMENTS
Poland Health System Reform: Meeting the Challenge. Report No. 9182-POL
Country Assistance Strategy 1994, 1997 and 2002
Loan Agreement, Loan No. 3466-POL
President's Memorandum and Recommendation on a Proposed Loan, Report No. P-568 I -POL
PROJECT DOCUMENTS
Staff Appraisal Report, Report No. 9816-POL
Terms of References for Missions (various)
Back-to-Office Reports (various)
Project Status Reports (all)
Interim Implementation Progress Report, 1999
Memos to Senior Management (various)
Documentation on loan extension
OTHER DOCUMENTS
National Health System - a Ministry of Health strategy for Poland for the years 2002 and 2003 in
health
Health Consortia: their experiences in the process of health system restructuring in Poland -
conference documents, May 1998
Health Systems Development: Beneficiary Survey. June 2002
Information on the results of control of utilization of the World Bank loan for restructuring the
health care system in Poland and operation of health care establishments within health consortia
- prepared by Supreme Chamber of Control, April 1998
-32 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Health Services Development Project: 2002 Beneficiary Survey. A Summary.
In June 2002, a survey of beneficiaries of the Project was carried out by an external evaluation firm
specializing in management in health. The survey's purpose was to evaluate the degree to which the Project
objectives have been achieved as perceived by its beneficiaries: health institutions, health care
organizations, family practitioners, health managers, various medical specialists and health policy makers.
This survey had a pilot character because of the scope of the Project and the length of its presence in
Poland. Through a series of questions the survey participants were asked to evaluate the tangible (mainly
medical and other equipment) and intangible (mainly training) help received through this World Bank
Project.
Regarding tangible help, equipment was generally perceived as appropriate to the needs of the institution,
whether used in a hospital or a family practitioner clinic or other health institution. Problems with use were
usually caused by incompatibility with previously owned equipment and lack of software. To help alleviate
these difficulties in the future, the beneficiaries believed that a sequence of purchase should be reversed
(first software, then hardware; first emergency rooms, then ambulances) and that the needs of an institution
should be more thoroughly assessed. It is worth noting that hospital computerization, implemented with
great difficulty and not until the very last stages of the Project, was perceived as least valuable. By and
large, equipment was perceived as helping to increase the quality of care, effectiveness, efficacy, and the
scope of medical services. It also allowed the development of family care practice and long-term and
palliative care; it motivated smaller health institutions to take better care of health in their communities. In
procurement, the survey suggested that the requirements of the Project could have been better tailored to
the specifics of the Polish legal system. Regarding intangible help, training financed by the Bank loan was
perceived as very helpful in making work efficient and in individual professional development in general.
The success of this Project element can be measured by the fact that respondents were very specific and
positive about the use of knowledge from training. Evaluation of needs prior to training and comparison to
the achieved results makes the training very efficient and useful. Courses also allowed the participants to
expose themselves to this form of increasing qualifications and made networking possible. The survey
confirmed that knowledge gained during training was important for the work of the participants and that it
had fulfilled its objectives.
- 33 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
The workshop held in July.2002 was attended by representatives from the ministries of health and finances
and from the health community: nurses, health managers, health institute directors, palliative care givers.
Because of the usual length of the Project, the group invited represented the stakeholders mainly from the
last phase of the Project. The meeting had an informal character with participants presenting their
comments and expressing their views about the Project and its results. Guests from Public Health Institute
and an evaluation firm Health and Management presented the Beneficiary Survey results (see Annex 8).
In a series of presentations, the participants discussed the Project achievements and failures but focused on
the future operation of programs stemming from the Project. And so, the example of health promotion
activities demonstrated the burning necessity to continue with achievement facilitated by the Project. By
and larger, the cancer screening activities showed that the success of prevention lies in proactive and
systematic screening in cytology and mammography. It also proved that planning and coordination are
essential to success. This program suggested that while tests could be performed in any health facility, the
reading should be done in the model screening centers (12 centers were established through the Project). To
enforce such procedure, Model Screening Society would act to pressure decision makers in health policy.
The importance of involvement of local community, such as in the Local Health Promotion and Prevention
Programs in CVD, was also highly stressed.
The participants also very positively rated the overall experience with primary health care development and
confirmed that the concept of family physician is firmly rooted in the Polish health care system. Without
the Project, establishment of primary care practices would not have been possible. Information system
under health management component was, however, criticized. Delays in software implementation greatly
diminished the effectiveness of the whole system especially that cost accounting was not introduced. The
group agreed that lack of cost analysis will come back to haunt the policy makers. Therefore, such analysis
should be prepared as soon as possible. In terms of technical assistance, it could not have been stressed
more that the Project only initiated the exploration of ways to make the system more cost-effective and
efficient. The participants involved with technical assistance expressed their concern over the future of TA
because of evasiveness of the Ministry of Health on the subject. They stressed that assessment of costs
alone would not make the development of health policy easier. A thorough analysis is necessary.
Training of health managers was presented as an extremely successful endeavor. thousands of people were
trained and there is demand for thousands more to train. Raising of qualifications is now a priority for
health workers as it became clear that training and courses in health management improve the quality of
care and enhance their own lives. Since the demand to learn is great, it is very important to build strong
training centers for health managers in various points of the country to ensure accessibility.
Palliative and long-terrn care is fairly new in Poland in the form facilitated by the Project. Nurses, on the
beginning unsure about this branch of medicine, now want more training and are active in opening centers
of their own, aware that the Polish society is getting older. Still, there is scarcity of senior doctors in
palliative/long-termn care. Although the program was developed rather suddenly (and some elements, such
as planning of bed procurement, could have been planned better), there are huge improvements in this
branch of health care. The most visible effects are shortened period of waiting for admission into a
palliative/long-term care center and a functioning home care net.
The Project itself did not have as much visibility as it should have. Lack of information campaign
weakened the Project's public perception and did not strengthen its ownership in the Government. Yet the
Project opened doors to new solutions and new thinking in health care, which is its biggest success.
- 34 -



HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN POLAND, 1992-2002
Participants List of the Stakeholders Workshop
I        Zbigniew Wronkowski                   Centrum Onkologii - Instytut
2            Jacek Luczak                   Klinika Opieki Paliatywnej, Poznan
3        Lilia Kinder - Dziwisz          Publiczny Zaklad Opieki Zdrowotnej, Radom
4            Ewa Szwedler                            SP ZOZ Rawicz
5           Jolanta Kubajka                Naczelna Rada Pielegniarek i Poloznych
6      Iwona Raszke - Rostkowska                  Naczelna Izba Lekarska
7             Jan Koszuta .                           SP ZOZ Chelm
8           Jacek Grabowski           Centrum System6w Informacyjnych w Ochronie Zdrowia
9           Beata Nelmebekg                        Ministry Of Finance
10          Grazyna Strzepek                        Ministry Of Finance
11            Aneta Cieloch                         Ministry Of Finance
12           Krystyna Plukis                         Ministry Of Health
13         Andrzej Gajowniczek                       Ministry Of Health
14           Monika Szostak                          Ministry Of Health
15         Malgorzata Krowiak                        Ministry Of Health
16          Piotr Warczynski                         Ministry Of Health
17            Marian Barlik                                GP
18             Jacek Klich                      Instytut Zdrowia Publicznego
19          Marek Wojtowicz                             STOMOZ
20             Maciej Pirog                   Instytut Centrum Zdrowia Dziecka
21           Jacek R. Luczak                Kolegium Lekarzy Rodzinnych w Poisce
22           Alicja Domagala                        Zdrowie i Zarzadzanie
23              Jacek Zak                           Zdrowie i Zarzadzanie
24             Anna Koziel                 Biuro Program6w Zagranicznych (NPIU)
25         Barbara Budkiewicz              Biuro Program6w Zagranicznych (NPIU)
26           Mirka Checinska               Biuro Program6w Zagranicznych (NPIU)
27          Jadwiga Jaszczyk               Biuro Program6w Zagranicznych (NPIU)
28          Andrzej Wisniewski             Biuro Program6w Zagranicznych (NPIU)
29          Zbigniew Galinski              Biuro Program6w Zagranicznych (NPIU)
30         Hanna Nowakowska                Biuro Program6w Zagranicznych (NPIU)
31            Marzena Kulis                             World Bank
32          Justyna Giezynska                           World Bank
- 35 -



Additional Annex 10. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
The document below was prepared in its entirety by the Officefor Foreign Aid Programs in Health Care
in Warsaw, Poland in July 2002.
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Data
Number 3466-POL                    Effective 17. 07. 1992      Termination 31. 03. 2001
B.     Principal Performance Ratings
( HS- Highly Satisfactory, S- Satisfactory, U- Unsatisfactory, H- High, SU- Substantial, M- Modest, N-
Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: S
Institutional Development: M
Impact: M S
Bank Performance: H
Borrower's Performance: H
Quality at entry: S
Project at Risk at any time: No
C.     Assessment of Development Objective and Design and of Quality at Entry
Original Objective:
In January 1990, Poland introduced a package of reformns to change the centrally planned system into a free
market economy. All prices were permitted to move freely, money supply was tightened, the currency
devalued, and private entrepreneurship encouraged. At the same time, a number of health system reforms
and enabling legislation were introduced in finance, organization and management of health services.
Starting with the Health Institutions Act of 1991 that laid down the legal basis for reorganizing the health
sector, these reforms have addressed a wide variety of systemic and specific issues through such measures
as decentralization, managerial autonomy for public health institutions, patient choice and new provider
payment mechanisms.
These objectives were to: develop the basic infrastructure for a wide reform for a health care system and
support Government efforts to improve accessibility, quality efficiency and effectiveness of health
services; strengthen health promotion capacity; improve the quality of primary health care; strengthen
management capability in the health sector through infornation system development and management
training; control escalating costs and improve the efficiency of health services in three decentralized regions
- 36-



Original components:
1) Health Promotion; Amount of 4,82 min USD
*  Health Promotion Programs
*  Training of health educators
*  Occupational health
2) Primary Health Care; Amount of 17,90 mln USD
*  Primary Health Care practice
*  In service training
3)     Health Management; Amount of 45,77 mln USD
*  Hospital A/D Information & accounting
*  Pharmaceutical monitoring and quality control
*  Budgeting
*  Health financing
4) Regional Health Services; Amount of 53,59 mln USD
*  Regional management
  Infrastructure consolidation
*  Hospital A/D information & accounting
*  Pharmaceutical monitoring systems
*  Materials and technology management
5) Project preparation and management; Amount of 7, 92 mrn USD
I PHASE OF THE LOAN IMPLEMENTATION 1992-1994
Revised objectives:
Mentioned above project schedule has already been changed in the preparatory phase. During the
preparation of the Project Operation Manual, in January 1994, it became clear that dividing project for 4
components and 15 sub-components is ineffective, conduces to duplication of activities and waste efforts
without putting proper impact on health care system.
As a result of discussions MoH and the WB decided to revise Project's structure by it's simplifying and
limiting. It was changed and orientated to the purposes of nationwide tasks. The amount of 130 million was
reduced to 100 million USD.
Revised components:
After restructurization in 1994 the Project contained 2 components and 6 subcomponents:
1. Regional health care ( 3 Consortia)- Amount of 47, 30 mln USD
1.1    Health promotion
1.2    Primary health care
1.3    Consolidation and essential medical equipment
2.     Health system management - Amount of 42, 70 mln USD
2.1    Management personnel training
2.2    Management support system
2.3    Pharmaceutical monitoring and evaluation
II PHASE (1995- 1999) of the Project implementation includes the same components with minor changes
only: In 1995 MoH released two document determining health policy "strategy for Health" and "Strategy of
POZ restructurisation" According to those documents a new loan structure was introduced: A. Strategy for
Health; Amount of 52,89 mrn USD; 2. Health Services Development; Amount of 47,11 mln USD.
- 37 -



III PHASE (2000-2002)
Last change was introduced on October 17, 2000. The project was diminished to 95 million USD, and its
duration was extended till March 31, 2002. The loan combines the following components:
I. Health Promotion and Prevention; Amount of: 4,2 mln USD
2. Upgrading of Long Term Care and Palliative Care; Amount of: 4,6 mln USD.
3. Training in Health Care Management; Amount of: 2,7 mln USD
4. Support for Health Care Reforms; Amount of: 6,5 mln USD
5. Hospital's Application Software: Admission-Discharge-Transfer Module and Pharmacy Module;
Amount of: 11 min USD
D.     Achievement of Development Objective and Outputs
I - PHASE OF THE LOAN IMPLEMENTATION (1992- 1994)
The amount of 8,5 mln USD remained reimbursed. The amount of 1,5 mln. USD covered the project
preparation. Till December 31, 1994 total expenditures were 5 225 733, 14 USD including:
  equipment for:                                                     155 678,18 USD
regional health services                                     4 500,00 USD
health management (mainlyfor purchase of computers
and equipmentfor NPIU and regions management)              151 178,18 USD
and
*  consulting services for:                                           4 819 424,87 USD
regional health services                                     1 546 259,00 USD
health management                                            3 273 165,87 USD
The consulting services covered the contracts with external companies and it was disbursed:
o 2,87 mln USD for consultants forming main part of NPIU staff and their services were connected with
- project maintenance
o   1 ,15 min USD) for Physical resources planning - the main goal of this contract was to plan the
purchase of equipment mainly for regional health services, to prepare technical specification needed
for procurement of medical equipment;
o 0,38 mln USD for Health Information System - project for preparation of requirements for
procurement of Application software of Hospital Information Systems.
o   0,13 mln USD for short-term training of key Polish Health Professionals
o 250 630,09 USD for refunding of PPF 178 PPF - Project Preparation Fund
o 0,04 for different small consulting services and training.
II - PHASE OF THE LOAN IMPLEMENTATION (1995-1999)
Description of the second phase activities:
1. Component Strategy for Health
1.1    Health promotion.
The main objective was to support policies to improve health status by strengthening health promotion and
prevention programs. The sub-component was performed on the national level. Many contracts on different
activities were performed such as: radio programming, development of schools promoting health programs,
anti-smoking campaigns, nutrition education, promotion programs at workplace, prevention of accidents
and injuries at home.
- 38 -



A number of seminars on health promotion sponsored by WHO and Congress of Health Promotion have
been financed.
1.2    Primary health care
The primary objective of the component was to initiate a fundamental restructuring of the health sector by
strengthening community based primary care. Numerous training for physicians in family medicine were
provided. Equipment for the primary health doctors and centers was purchased for the consortia. The MoH
proposed to transfer this sub-component to national level, some PHC equipment was purchased but second
bidding procedure for the equipment for the family doctors has never been approved by the WB.
1.3.          Regional consolidation and essential medical equipment
The main goal of this component was to initiate a decentralization of the Polish health care delivery system
into 10 voivodships (from 49 existing at that moment) belonging to three project regions known as
Ciechan6w, Pomerania and Wielkopolska. The whole component was divided into the same
sub-components as the total original project. It was estimated that experience gained in the initial three
project regions would be evaluated and used in planning for establishment of similar health regions in other
parts of Poland. The idea was to strengthen policy making, planning and evaluation capacity of regional
health services, to support initial upgrading of the infrastructure and equipment of primary health care and
institutional care facilities, and to establish a new balance between acute and chronic care. The project
provided civil works and equipment based on regional strategic plans for consolidating and upgrading
health facilities and medical equipment. Many hospitals within consortia were equipped with modem
medical apparatus. In 1998 all three consortia were closed by the decision of the MoH.
2.     Health Management Development
The main objective was to strengthen institutional capacity in health care management by providing
managers with the tools to introduce effective and efficient management practices with the objective of
reducing overall cost while improving health care services.
2.1    Management training
Many training, conferences and workshops for individual managers were financed.
2.2.   Management support systems
The main part of this sub-component was to introduce a Hospital Informnation System into hospitals
(admission/discharge/transfer and basic cost) to standardize the data collection on patient admission,
discharge and nationwide costs. Basic computer equipment for hospitals over 200 beds (as base for
Hospitals Informnation Systems), coding, terminology, definitions and registration system for health care
organizers, telephone communication system and computer network for MoH were purchased.
2.3    Monitoring and evaluation
Within this sub-component Pharmaceutical Department of the MoH was computerized, National Institute
of Drugs was equipped in apparatus for drug quality control, some TA services were undertaken to prepare
drug monitoring in pharmacies, hospitals and ambulatory practices.
By the end of 1999 the amount of financial recourses spent for the project implementation was 56,58
mln USD.
III - PHASE OF THE LOAN IMPLEMENTATION (2000- 2002)
The fundamental reform of the health care system in Poland started on the I st January, 1999. The overall
and final objective of the reforn to be achieved was improvement of the health care system efficiency
including improvement of accessibility and quality of health care services provided and purchased under the
- 39 -



National Health Insurance System. The introduced system required changes in the Loan structure. On
October 31st 2000, the WB signed the Amendment to it, restructuring the Project and establishing March
31, 2002 as the later date for closing the project. After two cancellations total amount of the Loan was
established to be 95 mln USD. MoH asked to cancel 3 mln USD on 03.08.2001. World Bank did not
respond.
1. Component: Health Promotion and Prevention; Amount of: 4,12 mln. USD
The main objective was to support policies to improve health status by strengthening health promotion and
prevention programs. The sub-component was performed on the national level.
1I.1 Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening Demonstration Proiect Amount of: 663,406 USD
The objectives of the project were to develop, test, implement and evaluate a pilot, population based breast
and cervical cancer screening program in 6 regions. The total number of screened women in the 12 model
screening centers exceeded 90.000. Within the project the 12 model screening centers were supplied with
the mammography and cytology equipment, the unified software system and permanent quality control
systems. Data Computer Center (breast and cervical cancer) was established in the Institute of Oncology;
the mammography and cytological tests were financed by the Polish side. The great success of the project
and gained results enhanced MoH to elaborate a plan for expansion of screening centers in Poland in the
total number of 49 till 2010. Implementation of the project and fulfillment of the evaluation criteria set in
Terms of Reference, enables Poland to withstand the European Union requirements and standards.
Moreover, as the demonstration project in Poland evolves and further develops, it may well serve as a
model for breast and cervical cancer screening for other countries. The experience also made it possible to
recognize the best partners for further cooperation in this particular field.
1.2 Organization of National Health Screening Network in Poland Amount of: 308,000 USD Within the
project the consultant performed the pilot survey in two regions (Warsaw and Tamobrzeg) for national
screening conceming CVD risk factors level in Polish population as well as prepared the whole
documentation (terms and methodology). The Data Books were developed basing on anthropometric
measurements, eating, drinking and smoking habit, blood pressure, blood lipids, medical history. Two
centers of screening (Tamobrzeg and Warsaw) and Data Computer Center in the Institute of Cardiology
were established. The results of the project supply the health decision makers with actual tools for
reduction of morbidity and mortality from CVD. The continuation of the project on the national scale is in
accordance with the National Health Care Strategy prepared by the MoH.
1.3 Health promotion and CVD prevention infrastructure development at local level in Poland Amount of:
325,000 USD
The activities undertaken within the project resulted in development of a logistic basis for elaboration and
implementation of local health promotion and CVD prevention programs, including activation of
inter-sector cooperation for health. Delivering the support through the organization of the consultant's
network should be considered as one of the most important factors for the gmina activation process. The
development of this project is solid in its community development and empowerment approaches. It was
very positive to observe the extent to which a variety of community professionals and volunteers are
involved in these health promotion programs. The project presents legal and social determinants of the level
of commune involvement in health promotion, indicating among others the important role of the
development of civic society and inter- sectoral co-operation for health to reach the success in the health
promotion area. It is important to note that community awareness was intensified.
The work of the contractor resulted in a hundred and twenty persons trained, two voivodships and thirty
communes health promotion and CVD prevention programs elaborated, initiated and sustainable and many
teaching and information aids produced. Evaluation data which were collected during the project
-40 -



implementation will be used to elaborate a model of communes activation for health promotion and CVD
prevention work in Poland.
The results of this project could be presented on international level as expert from Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, USA, Ms. Linda Redman suggested, not only Europe, but other countries could
benefit from Polish experience in this field.
2. Component: Upgrading of Long Term Care and Palliative Care; Amount of: 4,6mmn. USD.
The main goal of the program was to provide a financial support to newly launched long-term care centers
(nursing homes/units, long-term care and treatment units and palliative-hospice care units) which were
established by a process of restructuring autonomous public health care centers according to the directions
of the health care system reform recognized by the Polish government.
2.1 Training Projects Amount of: 0,6 mln USD
Within the program there were organized training for management, trainers, nurses for purposes of
long-term care centers, physicians in palliative and hospice care, nurses for purposes of palliative and
hospice care units, over 900 nurses and 40 doctors improved their qualifications.
2.2 Equipment purchase Amount of: 4 mln USD
Within the program 106 long term and palliative centers and 33 and hospice care units were procured with
specialist hospital, medical and rehabilitation equipment necessary to provide high quality service.
Contracts were signed with 27 domestic and foreign suppliers for hospital equipment e.g.: anti-bedsore
mattresses, systems for personal hygiene, oxygen concentrators, lifts for patients, trolleys, walkers; And
medical equipment e.g.: syringe infusion pumps, pulse-oximeters, resuscitator-self-expanding bags, suction
devices, electrocardiographs, 3-channels, electro-stimulators, sphygmomanometers, ultrasonic inhalators,
oxygen-concentrators, rehabilitation equipment for multipurpose therapy rooms.
Since not all aged, disabled and terminally ill people can, or want to be hospitalized in the nursing or
palliative centers it is very important to arrange for them home nursing care which could be included into
already existing centers.
Although the equipment have been purchased and the training conducted, the program is not complete as a
result of not signing the contract for purchasing about 2100 pcs of hospital beds and bedside cabinets for
the amount of about 1,4 mln USD. This situation delayed signing of contracts by the centres with Sickness
Funds. Many centres were forced to limit hospitalised  patients. Some centres, could not effort
self-financing not economic, were included again into hospital structures, in such cases some of the
equipment is exploited by other hospital departments which is contrary to the Program objectives.
3. Component: Training in Health Care Management. Amount of: 2 mln USD
Activities under this component included training for top and middle level managers (4828 persons) of
health care institutions, training for local health politicians (1085 persons), development of case studies on
financial and hospital management with 2000 printed books and web page containing the results of the
project and development of a guidebook with educational centers providing training in the area of health
care management ending with 2500 copies of Polish and 500 English versions and web page. Three
contracts with local experts were signed in order to provide monitoring and supervision of the above
contracts implementation. Two editions of "Training of Tutors in Family Medicine" and printing of 3
books for family doctors as well as one Flagship Course for high and middle level government officials was
financed.
-41 -



4. Component Support for Health Care Reforms. Amount of: 5,1 mln USD
4.1 Training for the Sickness Funds Staff. Amount ofj 1,6 mln USD
17 Sickness Founds were established within the system introduced in 1999. It was planned in the project
that more than 3000 people would be employed in the fully operating system. In order to facilitate
implementation of changes in a system, the health insurance system employees should permanently improve
their skills and extend their knowledge in the field of health care and health insurance.
The following 4 distinct training activities were performed - study tours for sickness funds managers to
Germany, the Netherlands and Estonia for 60 persons, basic training for Sickness Fund staff (1500
people), training program for sickness funds councils members (340 people), and postgraduate training in
public health (60 persons) with preparation of training programs and implementation for future years. Two
tasks: Special training for sickness funds and training of 90 persons group of trainers were cancelled by
MoH after the winning company had resigned during contract negotiations. Contracts with local experts
were signed for preparation monitoring and supervision of the above tasks 's implementation contracts.
The Terms of Reference for these contracts were not sufficiently precise. Due to the fact that the project
was delayed the participants - especially top managers were less interested in participation. Lack of
individual financial input in the cost of participation caused minor interest in the training especially
demonstrated by top managers.
The system will benefit from better educated staff. The self-training packages can be easily adopted to
these changes of the system, that are being introduced.
4.2     Technical Assistance supporting health reforms. Amount of: 2,1 mln USD
Implemented reform of health care system required an introduction of new tools and methods, provided by
TA contracts:
4.2.1 Development and implementation of National Health Accounts
As a result of the project the NHA system was developed (including definitions of terms, procedures and
forms for data collection, description of the methods for analysis, sample copies of standard reports,
software installed, analysis of system conformity with solutions worked out in the European Union,
institutional solutions necessary for introduction of NHA, analysis of desired directions for further NHA
development); financial analysis were made, personnel to operate NHA system was trained, Polish manual
of NHA system was prepared. Poland received systematic method to obtain data on total national health
expenditures disaggregated to desired levels and people trained to continue the program.
4.2.2 Standards for purchasing services under health insurance:
This contract provided technical assistance for analysis of the services purchased within the framework of
the national health insurance system for individuals, including the appraisal of prophylactic, diagnostic,
therapeutic and rehabilitative efficiency of selected group of services, development of the methodology of
the cost-effectiveness evaluation, and development of principles of the health technology assessment (HTA)
for the national health insurance benefits package. The outcome of the project were seven reports and five
articles for popular medical journals and its findings were presented through five conferences. The project
assessed 490 technologies in terms of their effectiveness and demonstrated how these technologies could be
assessed in terms of their cost-effectiveness.
Basing upon the project's performance it has been recommended to apply methods of HTA demonstrated in
the project to achieve high standard of effectiveness and to put forward to institutionalize HTA in Poland,
subsequently this standard could be applied to an increasing range of health care technologies, and the
process of making coverage decisions.
- 42 -



The project will be continued by the MoH, the Special Agency of H1TA is planned to be created.
4.2.3 Assessment and diagnostic tools for priority setting
The aim of this task was to enable decision-making with respect to the overall health care policy as well as
the allocation of funds across specific alternatives, including training and development of diagnostic tools
for assessing the following modules medical and health needs of the population, diagnostic tools for
establishing data needs and data-collection protocols and analytical tools for assessing the cost
effectiveness of different interventions. As a result 1500 copies of 7 manuals and 3000 compact discs were
prepared and disseminated to health policy maker. The manuals (guidelines) contain description of above
modules. CD ROMs include tools useful for the evaluation of health priorities by specifying health needs
and factors affecting them as well as by providing the evaluation of effectiveness based on cost
calculations, appropriate software serving for the mentioned above purposes and case studies.
4.2.4 Development of Diagnosis Related Groups DRG
The goal of this task was to create Polish DRG that can be used by Sickness Funds as a basis for
purchasing health services from hospitals. The clinical aspect entailed selection of the appropriate system
for grouping patients, identifying and adopting the appropriate grouping algorithm and identifying the
prevalent medical and clinical procedures and practices used in Poland. The costing aspects of DRG
preparation entailed using the most appropriate rules and procedures for deternining costs of treatment,
either on the basis of resource utilization or on the basis of some accounting procedures.
The main objective of the project was to prepare a set of diagnosis related groups for the potential use for
hospital financing in Poland. The results of the project were based on the use of the currently used grouper
of the Austrian LKF model.
The total quantity of data used for the preparation of the Polish model amounted to some 170 000 patient
records from ten hospitals from two regions. Currently the project is being verified, tested and implemented
in pilot hospitals by National Centre for Health Information Systems.
4.2.5 Private sector initiatives in health insurance and health facilities
The overall objective of this study was to understand and define strategies to manage, the principle
implications of private health insurance in the Polish health care market. Some of the key issues examined
in the project include the effect of private health insurance on revenue mobilization, regulation of both
purchasers and providers of health services, and the capacity and infrastructure requirements needed by the
Supervisory Office for Health Insurance for managing and implementing its statutory responsibilities
connected with reform related to private health insurance.
As the result of the project implementation many important issues, problems have been raised, discussions
regarding privatization's matters had started. Some answers were also given, brining up the necessity to
face new questions. Consultants reports have been sent to institutions involved in managing, reforming and
supporting health care system.
4. 3 Public Information Campaign. Amount of: 1.4 min. USD
During the project's implementation the following tasks were carried out: public opinion research,
development of MoH communication strategy, quality and quantity researches, communication training for
MoH representatives, arrangement of meetings with journalists, press conferences, educational seminars,
regional meetings, development of press and background materials, preparation of MoH web site. The aim
of the contract was provision of comprehensive, clear, reliable and updated information to all participants
of the health sector reform. As a result of the project, 4,951 receptionists and 2,602 managers have been
-43 -



trained. The training were successfully evaluated by their participants. Press and media information
campaign interfered with the parliamentary election campaign in Poland which started in June. Therefore,
Minister of Health decided to terminate the contract in July 2001. Therefore it would be difficult to
evaluate its' long term effects.
5. Component: Application Software: Admission-Discharge-Transfer Module and Pharmacy
Module Amount of: 1I mln. USD
The main purpose of the project was to deliver to the hospitals modem basic information systems. The aim
of the implementation of Application Software in hospitals was to strengthen the management by enabling
to apply modem data exchange inside the hospitals, or between hospitals and others institutions of the
national health system. Application software is based on commonly used data base engines enabling
hospitals to develop delivered application software through implementing other software modules intending
to create the complex hospital information systems.
After many consultations nonstandard procurement procedure of the application software commenced in
1999. Finally NPIU signed 5 contracts. Detailed information about the project are presented in Appendix
No. 1.
Four contracts were performed with due diligence. During performance of the contract by the fifth
contractor some problems occurred, delays caused reallocation of the unperformed part of contract to 4
remaining suppliers and hence large extension of the project budget.
Application software was successfully implemented in 237 hospitals and hospitals' staff was trained to use
this software. However 6 hospitals did not accept the application software implementations performed by
the fifth contractor.  -
Delivered software enables to undertake following activities in a standard way:
*  assistance to patients' hospitalization and treatment evidence,
* assistance to ordering and distribution of pharmaceutical substances and medical materials and
recording their costs,
* preparation of internal and external hospital reports for other institutions and other hospital
departments.
* collection of the data having the influence on the hospitalization costs.
Because of the very long duration of the project, its accomplishment encountered a lot of difficulties
resulting from the big changeability of project requirements and expectations. Essential project factors i.e.
technical parameters of hardware and software, individual hospital requirements and healthcare legislation
have the consequence of the healthcare reforn were subject to various fluctuations.
The purchase of application software enabled the hospitals to have quick access to information on patients'
hospitalization, applied drugs and pharmaceutical materials. Therefore, the hospitals are able now to build
more complex hospital information systems.
6. Component: Procurement of ambulances Amount of: 4,6 mln USD
In 1999 MOH started implementation of the Integrated Emergency Program (IEP) within framework of
health sector reforn. Organization and institutional structures of emergency medicine were introduced
according to the WHO recommendations to adjust Polish emergency service to the European emergency
standards.
- 44 -



It has been decided to purchase emergency ambulances with equipment as a support to the IEP with the aim
of extending its effectiveness and attaining proper quality parameters of emergency devices. Therefore 94
ambulances with additional equipment such as defibrillators and respirators were provided for Emergency
Care Units in Poland.
Thanks to the purchase of ambulances the greater quantity of the cars is operated within the Polish
emergency care system which shortens, to the patients advantage, the necessary time to acquire medical
care.
By the end of July 2002 the amount of financial resources spent for the project implementation was
88.8 min USD.
E. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
In the early years of transformation process external factors like changes of government, results of
transition in Poland, rapid economic changes were influencing the Project. Similarly, the nature of
introduced legislative and administrative changes meant that many aspects of the Project procurement,
merits and goals had to be revised. It obviously took some time to carry out required adjustments in project
implementation.
Frequent changes of Polish govemment during 10 years of Project performance had an essential impact on
its implementation. High tumover of ministers, senior MoH managers as well as NPIU staff led to delays in
decision making process. Lack of experience as well as new creation of the rectructurized health care
system caused many implementation problems.
For the first three years the implementation was managed by external TA consultants who were paid from
loan resources. They were trained by the World Bank on the Bank's specific procedures, procurement,
disbursement, project management instead of Polish NPIU staff that was essentially trained on the job.
That period caused high implementation costs but was not very effective.
The obstacles such as slow decision making process on both the MoH and the WB side delayed core
decisions related to the Project and prolonged its performance. High turnover of the NPIU staff in the first
few years had a big impact and slowed down the project performance.
Experience gained during the project implementation caused great improvement and acceleration of project
activities during last 3 years of its implementation and Polish staff proved its professionalism on
international market.
F. Sustainability
Most outcomes of the Project will be sustained and will have a long-time impact on the development of the
health care system in Poland.
Many medical, office and computer equipment as well as hospital's application software purchased during
the loan execution can support further development of health care institutions especially on local level.
Some of the programs will be continued.
All programs from health promotion and prevention shall be continued on greater level (wider field) using
the experience gained during their realization from loan resources. Twelve centers of breast and cervical
-45 -



cancer screening were established and it was a tool for reducing mortality from breast and cervical cancer.
The increase in number of screening centers is being considered. Having the data of this project the MoH
will plan new programs or projects for breast and cervical cancer. As the result of the other project two
centers of screening and Data Computer Center in the Institute of Cardiology were established. They
supply the health decision makers with actual tools for reducing morbidity and mortality from CVD. The
first national screening in Poland will be based on the experience of the pilot study.
The collected data in third health promotion project will be used to prepare a model of communes
activation for health promotion and CVD prevention work in Poland. The recommendations of the project
could be used for gmina activation in a country wide scale.
Within the program of establishing and developing long term care units and palliative and hospice care
centers a variety of forms of care in health system for aged, disabled and terminally ill people was ensured.
The trained medical and nurses staff will remain in the system representing the group of qualified medical
staff employed in this area, professionally prepared to provide specialist comprehensive care over
chronically ill, disabled and senior citizens.
Several training programs for health care managers have been established, more than 8500 people was
trained.
The projects supporting health system reformn (NHA. DRG, Standard of health care services, Assessment
of priorities) equipped policy makers in modem tools and methods to diminish the gap between Poland and
EU requirements. They can easily be adopted to resolve the problems of new, restructurizing health care
system to better follow up the costs.
Sustainability of several task is somewhat endangered. Many changes in health care system may cause that
staff (especially top managers) trained in many sub-components could be lost to other functions not
connected with health care.
The purchase of application software enabled the hospitals to have quick access to information on patients'
hospitalization, applied drugs and pharmaceutical materials. Therefore, the hospitals are able now to build
more complex hospital information systems.
G. Bank and Borrower Performance
The project was one of the first established in Poland. Its preparation was rather rapid for the project of
that size and complexity. Original goals have been frequently changed due to transitions in political, legal
and economical reasons to be consistent with Polish strategy in health care.
It happened during the implementation period that some project beneficiaries were eager to participate in
the project but some of them, especially top management members, needed encouragement and guidance
from the MOH and NPIU side strengthening their commnitrnent to performance of the project activities.
The project was administrated very professionally. The borrower showed due attentiveness and diligence as
public money were concemed, followed the World Bank guidelines at procurement processes, no mis-
procurement or ineligible expenditures were met.
Taking into consideration that the Loan 3466-POL was the first one meant for the health care sector the
project was too much complex to be carried out in the planned time framework.
- 46 -



Bank staff was appraising the project and accepting the changes made throughout the years of its
implementation after their justification.
In the original amount the project was overestimated and during the implementation after two
restructurizations was reduced by 30 %.
H. Lessons Learned
Lack of experience of the Polish partner in implementing projects co-financed by the World Bank at the
beginning was the reason for underestimating the importance of logistics and administration services for the
Project itself, engagement of extemal companies for services later performed by Polish staff. One of many
advantages gained during the project implementation are the vital skills of how to develop, organize,
monitor and finally to manage complex projects.
Frequent changes in the Polish legislation affecting the contents of the project were serious drawbacks. The
project duration should fit with the changes of government. The Project cycle starting at its preparation till
the end of its implementation should last no more than three/four years to ensure its effective and efficient
performance and sustainability.
The requirements to follow World Bank procedures and the need of "no objection" for each procurement
proposal and contract award, have seriously impeded the project implementation process. In some periods
of project implementation lack of information from the World Bank was astonishing. It will be suggested to
clearly state the time period needed to respond for the request of "no objection".
Applying of a bid lowest price as a procurement evaluation criterion may cause the possibility to deal with
"dumping" prices. The experience shows that a firm offering prices much below estimated budget and
extremely lower than other ones may generate problems with delivering their services. Bidder should be
obliged to submit bid price calculation or/and evaluation committee should have possibility to reject bids
with the lowest price (e.g. the bid of APEXIM)
Only the best practices of the best experts are to be recommended and followed. Benchmarking should be
used more often.
Experts and consultants selected by the World Bank to supervise the implementation of special tasks were
highly professional in their majority. When partnership co-operation between WB and Polish consultants
was carried out on the day-to-day level, the results of activities undertaken, especially within
implementation and executive level, were highly efficient. The main example is the input of Mr Daniel
Miller in all the projects of health promotion. Another example is cooperation of Mr Carlos Fereira with
MoH and NPIU in preparation of non standard procedure for purchasing software application for hospitals.
The procedure was broken down after 2 years of discussion between WB and MoH on method of
purchasing the aforementioned software enabling further continuation of this project.
The two projects implemented by the Institute of Cardiology showed that it is extremely important for the
success to have the right project leader and clear guidelines to follow. Top leadership qualities and reliable,
clear Terms of Reference (TOR) are essential for enthusiastic, effective and successful team work.
TOR for a project should clearly and precisely specify duties and responsibilities assigned under the project
to some of stakeholders such as a Client, Consultants or Suppliers and beneficiaries. TOR should also
- 47 -



specify relations between duties and responsibilities assigned to the particular stakeholders as well as clear
expectations within the Project's outcomes presented by the Client.
As for the local experts contracts concerning their duties should be limited to counseling and approving
merits of projects. Responsibility for due implementation of projects should lay within the competence of
personnel of NPIU and organization supervising its performance.
It is very important to continue the Program of establishment of home nursing care since not all aged,
disabled and terminally ill people can or want to be hospitalised in the nursing or palliative care centres.
As we have to face the fact that Polish citizens belong to the ageing population, this lesson is quite
remarkable.
The experience showed that members of all training courses should participate in the costs, especially
members of the top level management. This will ensure higher attendance and continuation of the training.
It was a remarkable feature of training activities that the lower position at work was taken by a trainee the
stronger interest and commitment to training activities. Therefore, training should rather be addressed either
to trainees-employees of lower rank or to small groups of qualified people becoming trainers in the system.
The very long period of the procurement process in the case of application software caused the necessity of
extension of signed contracts. That was the result of the meantime changes of the technical parameters of
existing hardware and changes of data bases license terms (ORACLE db. licenses). The process of
purchase so complex hardware and software for national level should be preceded by the pilot process.
The project showed that both parties can share their knowledge and experiences to achieve the best results.
-48 -



