/~As  J/&L - v .
Doct.ment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 9816-POL
Report No.   9816-POL Type:  (SAR                         
YOUNG, MAR/ X32466 / H-8021/ EMl
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 27, 1992
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcrat duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



CURRENCX EOUIYALENTS
(March 1992)
Currency Unit - Zloty (ZL)
US$1.00 - ZL13,360
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACT       -     Anatomic Chemical Therapeutic System
A/D       -     Admission/Discharge
CCO       -     Consortia Coordination Office
CY        -     Calendar Year
DDD       -     Daily Drug Dosage
EC        -     Comission of the European Communities
ECU       -     European Currency Unit
FY        -     Fiscal Year
GDP       -     Gross Domestic Product
ICB       -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA       -     International Development Association
ILO       -     International Labor Organization
lcM       -     Institute of Occupational Medicine
LCB       -     Local Competitive Bidding
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
MOB       -     Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
MOHPD     -     MOH Pharmaceuticals Department
NBHP      -     National Board for Health Promotion
NBPC      -     National Board for Primary Care
NCDG      -    National Consortia Development Group
NCHSM     -     National Center for Health System Management
NDI       -     National Drug Institute
NPIU      -     National Project Implementation Unit
OECD      -     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCP       -     Primary Care Physician
POM       -     Project Operations Manual
RTU       -     Regional Training Unit
SANEPID   -     Sanitation Epidemic Prevention System
SCBP      -     Steering Comittee for Budget Planning
SCIS      -     Steering Committee for Information Systems
SCPC      -     Steering Committee for Primary Care
SOE       -     Statement of Expenditure
TA        -     Technical Assistance
WHO       -     World Health Organization
ZL        -     Zloty
ZOZs      -     Zespol Opieki Zdrowotnej or Integrated Health and Social Services
DEFINITION
Poland is divided into 49 administrative areas called "voivodships".



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
POtAND
ijiLTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
HEALTH AND POPULATION DATA SHEET  . . . .
Loan and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  iv
I.   THE HEALTH SECIOR IN POA[D . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
A.  Introduction  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  1
B.    Sector  Background   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
C.    Sector   Issues    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  6
D.  Government Program  ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   11
E.  Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
F.  Role of Other Donors  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
II.  THE PROJECT .............  .....  ....  ....  .  .   14
A.    Health  Promotion  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
B.  Primary Health Care . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
C.  Health Management .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  .   18
D.  Regional Health Services (Consortia)  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
E.  Environmental Considerations  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   24
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . .  25
A.  Project Costs .........  ...  ..  ...  ...  ...  .   .   25
B.   Project  Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
C.  Project Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
D.  Project Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
E.  Status of Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
F.  Project Reporting, Evaluation and Supervision . . . . . . . . .  37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Poland in October, 1991. Mission members were Mary E-Ming Young (Public
Health Specialist, Mission Leader), Terrice Bassler (Operations Officer,
EC1/2HR), Leonardo Concepcion (Sr. Implementation Specialist, EMTPH),
Alexander S. Preker (Health Economist, EC1/2HR), Carl Whitehouse (Primary
Care/Medical Education specialist, Consultant), Jan Blanpain (Health Services
Specialist, Consultant), and Kurt Moses (Information Systems Specialist,
Consultant). Lia Achsien (EC1/2HR) was responsible for text processing. Task
Manager: Mary E-Ming Young (EMTPH); Division Chief: Ralph W. Harbison
(ECl/2HR); Director: Kemal Dervis (EC2DR); Peer Reviewers: Anthony Measham
(PHRHN); Salim Habayeb (SA2PH); Bernard Liese (HSDDR); Eugene Boostrom
(AFTPN).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
IV.  BENEFITS MD RISKS ....................... .  39
Benefits .39
Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  39
'   V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED ANP RECO(ENlDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
Agreements  Reached  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  40
Recommendation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
Text Tables
Table 3.1:  Project Cost Summary by Project Component . . . . . . . . . .  25
Table 3.2:  Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure ... . . . . .  26
Table 3.3:  Financing Plan by Disbursement Category . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements .34
An_nexes
Annex 1     : Development of Regional Health Services (CONSORTIA)   . . .  42
Org. Chart  : Structure of the Consortium Management . . . . . . . . . .  45
Attachment A: Guidelines for Regional Strategic Plans  . . . . . . . . .  46
Annex 2     : Detailed Project Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  49
Annex 3     : Project Implementation Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . .  57
Annex 4     : Technical Assistance Summary by Project Component  . . . .  59
Annex 5     : Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring Indicators    65
Annex 6     : Schedule of Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  73
Annex 7     : Documents Available on Project File  . . . . . . . . . . .  74
Annex 8     : Supervision Plan . . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . .  76
ME&:  IBRD No. 232282R



HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HEALTH AND POPULATION DATA SHEET 1/
A.  General Country DatA
Year
1.  Population (millions)                                        38.2   1990
2.  Area (km2 in thousands)                                     312.7   1990
3.  Population Density (per kW2)                                122.0   1990
4.  GNP Per Capita (US$)                                      1,790.0   1989
5.  Gross Hard Currency Debt (in billions of dollars)            46.6   1990
B. PoDulation and Health
1.  Annual Rate Of Population Growth (X)                          0.4   1989
2.  Urban Population (X of total)                                61.0   1989
3. Population Age Structure
0-14 Years (X)                                            25.1   1989
15-64 Years (t)                                            65.1   1989
65(+) Years (X)                                             9.8   1989
4.  Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000 population)                      15.0   1989
5.  Crude Death Rate (per 1,000 population)                      10.0   1989
6.  Life Expectancy At Birth:2/
- Female                                                   76.0   1989
- Male                                                     67.0   1989
Life Expectancy At Age 30:2.1
- Female                                                   47.0   1989
- Male                                                     39.0   1989
7. Infant Mortality Rate Per 1,000 Live Births
- National Average                                         16.1   1989
8.  Risk of Dying By Age 5 (per 1,000 population)2./
- Female                                                   17.0   1989
- Male                                                     22.0   1989
9.  Total Fertility Rate                                          2.2   1989
10. Women of Childbearing Age (as a percentage of
total female population)                                   48.0   1989
11. Maternal Mortality Rate Per 100,000 Live Births              12.0   1989
12. Babies Born With Low Birth Weight (S)                         8.0   1988
13. Daily Calorie Supply Per Capita                           3,451.0   1988
/ Unless otherwise indicated, figures are World Bank estimates.
/ Annual Health Statistics Report, MOH, Poland, 1990.



- ii -
C. Health Sector Resources and Expenditures
Year
1.   MOH Health Expenditures as X of 3tate Budget                10.5   1991
Public Expenditures on Health as X of GDP                    4.5   1991
Total Expenditures on Health per Capita (US$)               97.0   1991
2.   Physicians per 10,000 Populatior. /                         21.4   1990
3.   Hospital Beds per 10,000 Population 2                       56.1   1990
2  Annual Health Statistic Report, MOH, Poland, 1990.



- iii 
DEFINITIONS OF POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION TERMS
Average Occupancy Rate      - Number of hospital days/(number of beds x 365).
Average Length of Stay      - Number of Hbspital days/number of admissions.
Crude Birth Rate            - Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate            - Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people..
Infant Mortality Rate       * Annual deaths of infants younger than 1 year old
per 1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth   - The number of years a newborn child would live
if subject to the age-specific mortality rates
prevailing at time of birth.
Low Birth Weight (LBW)      - Infants whose weight at birth is less than 2,500
grams.
Maternal Mortality Rate    - Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live
births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy, childbirth, or post-partum.
Rate of Natural Increase   - The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to surplus (or
deficit) of births over deaths expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Rate of Population Growth  - The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to natural
increase and net migration, expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Total Fertility Rate        - The average number of children a woman will have
if she experiences a given set of age specific
fertility rates throughout her lifetime. Serves
as an estimate of the number of children per
family.



- iv -
PgOLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Proiect SuMmary
BORROWER:      Republic of Poland.
BENEFICIARIES: Min stry of Health and three project regions.
LO~13ANmO :   US$130.0 million equivalent.
TERMS:         Seventeen years, including a four year grace period, at the
IBRD standard variable interest rate.
PROJECT        The project would support the Government's economic
OBJECTIVE:     reform program by improving health, strengthening the health
sector's contribution to the social safety net, and con:aining
upward pressure from the health sector on the state budget.
To achieve these goals, the project would: (a) improve health
status by strengthening health promotion and prevention
programs; (b) support the first steps in restructuring the
health sector by shifting the focus from institutional care to
effective primary care through better trained primary care
doctors and nurses; (c) strengthen institutional capacity in
policy making, planning, management and evaluation by
providing managers access to improved information systems and
management education; and (d) ensure sustainability of
services and control costs in the health sector in the medium-
term by improving effectiveness, efficiency and quality of
service delivery in three project regions.
PROJECT        The project would comprise four components:  (a) Health
DESCRIPTION:   Promotion; (b) Primary Health Care; (c) Health Management; and
(d) Regional Health Services. For each, it would provide for
technical assistance, training, equipment and civil works
(US$182.6 million equivalent base cost; and US$227.0 million
total cost including contingencies). The project would be
irplemented over a period of seven years and completed by
December 31, 1998. A special feature of the project design is
the targeting of components (a), (b) and (c) in three project
regions under component (d) to maximize impact. Health
services in the three regions would be reorganized as "health
consortia" of participating voivodships. Concurrently, the
project would also contribute to progressive strengthening of
the entire health sector through aspects of components (a),
(b), and (c) that would be implemented in a phased manner at
the national level.



BENEFITS:      Major benefits include increased orientation toward prevention
of health problems, more accessible and effectiva primary
care, more efficient and professionally managed health
services, reduced reliance on the state budget for health care
financing, and experience in decentralization of health
services. Improved targeting of poor and vulnerable
populations would be achieved through better equipped and more
highly trained family doctors. This would also address
fragmentation of primary care and reduce reliance on
enterprise-based setvices, thereby facilitating labor
mobility. A reduction in avoidable infant deaths could be
expect .t. Improved accounting methods, monitoring of drug
prescriptions and sales, and professional hospital management
would all lead to efficiency gains and contribute to cost
containment. Regional restructuring of health services is
expected to permit greater involvement of the private sector
in hospital support services such as laundry, catering and
maintenance. Development of training for primary care
physicians and nurses is also expected to foster high quality
private practices. The three project regions would contribute
to sustainability of the project through cost containment and
improved efficiency by establishing shared services in
technology and materials management, planning and evaluation.
Once materials management is operating, up to 10% savings on
operating budgets could be achieved, and up to 5% savings are
possible on both investment and operating budgets with
efficient equipment management. The combined total savings
from measures that address pharmaceutical consumption and
efficiency in hospitals could be as high as ZL3 trillion or 8
percent of the total health care budget. These internal
savings could be redirected toward priorities such as health
promotion, prevention and primary care.
,   RISKS:     There are two main risks.  The first is continuation of weak
project implementation capacity in the Ministry of Health and
Social Welfare (MOH). Project implementation presents an
administrative challenge unprecedented in MOH, and the number
of qualified staff responsible for implementation needs to be
increased. This risk is compounded by the difficulty in
attracting and maintaining staff with the present public
sector salaries. Management capacity at the regional level is
also a concern. To reduce this risk, technical assistance in
project management would be provided during project start-up
and implementation. The second risk is that continued
uncontrolled rise in health expenditure and further economic
difficulty could compromise financing and sustainability of
health services. Project design has been tightly focused on
essential investments to rationalize health expenditures and
minimize incremental recurrent costs. Management improvements
and cost recovery to be implemented under the project would
yield substantial efficiency gains.



- vi -
Estimated Proiect Costs: i}
Local    Foreign   Total
-(US$ million) ----
Health Promotion
Health Promotion Programs                              0.5         1.5     2.0
Training of Health Educators                           1.5        3.7      5.2
Occupational Health                                    0.1        Q.       Q_a
Sub-Thtal                      2.1         5.4      7.5
Primary Health Care
Primary Care Practices                                15.3       14.3    29.6
In-Service Training                                     2.3, 6.4    _.7
Sub-Total                     17.6        20.7    38.3
Health Management
Hospital A/D Information & Accounting (national)    2.3          11.5    13.8
Pharmaceutical Monitoring (national)                   4.5       20.6    25.1
Budgeting                                              0.1        0.4      0.5
Management Development                                 1.1        4.2      5.3
Health Financing                                       O.5        .1       .6
Sub-Total                      8.5        37.8    46.3
Regional Health Services
Regional Management                                    2.5        4.4      6.9
Infrastructure Consolidation                          31.9       34.6    66.5
Hospital A/D Information & Accounting (regional)    2.5           7.9    10.4
Pharmaceutical Monitoring (regional)                   0.7        2.6      3.3
Materials and Technology Management                    0.4       , 3.0     3.A
Sub-Total                     38.0        52.5    90.5
Total Base Cost               66.2       116.4   182.6
Physical Contingencies                                   5.4       10.3    15.7
Price Contingencies                                     11.2        17.5    28.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           82.8       144.2   227.0
I/ Project costs include an estimated 10 percent, or US$6.1 million
equivalent, for indirect taxes on locally procured services and civil
works. Numbers may not total exactly due to rounding.



-vii-
Local      Foreign      Total
----    (US$ million)-------
Financing PlAn:
Government
National Government                                 45.9 A/       0.0       45.9
Regional Consortia (voivodships)                    26.1          0.0       26.1
IBRD                                                   0.0        130.0      130.0
European Community                                     .8          14.2       25.0
Total                        82.8       144.2      227.0
j/ Includes US$6.1 million in taxes and duties.
Estimated Disbursements:
Fiscal Year
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
-------------------- (US$ million) ------------------
Annual            0.5    9.0   27.6   30.3   24.9   17.0   11.8    8.9
Cumulative        0.5    9.5   37.1   67.4   92.3  109.3  121.1  130.0
Rate of Return:  Not applicable
MEP: IBRD 23228R



I. THE HEALTH SECTOR IN POLAND
A.  Introducelon
1.1      The Government of Poland is committed to major reform and
restructuring of the health sector to improve the bleak social conditions left
by decades of poor standards of living, disregard for the environment,
unhealthy lifestyles and misdirected priorities in provision of health
services. 5ince the mid-1970s, health status in Poland has deteriorated
significantly while it improved in most western countries. Currently, life
expectancy is low and mortality high compared with western Europe. A program
of extensive but poorly targeted investments during the early 1970s led to a
build-up of acute care hospitals and training of medical specialists. Little
attention was given to the construction of adequate rehabilitation services
and long-term care facilities. Training of general practitioners, nurses and
other health care personnel was neglected, leading to serious imbalances in
the type and number of health care workers and their geographic distribution.
The recurrent budget required to operate the resulting massive National Health
Service qutckly outstripped the country's financial resources.  In recent
years, underfinancing and neglect have left health services badly in need of
maintenance, repair and replacement. Hospitals and ambulatory clinics often
lack even basic diagnostic and therapeutic equipment.  Chronic shortages in
many critical drugs and supplies lead to ineffective and low quality care.
Finally, there are virtually no incentives to motivate patients to maintain
good health and to use scarce resources judiciously, or to encourage health
care workers to provide effective, efficient, and high qw-ilty care.
1.2      The health sector confronts these problems during a period of
economic crisis. Following a period of hyperinflation, the Government
launched reforms to introduce a market economy in January 1990. Although the
economy is beginning to stabilize, the annual rate of inflation during the
latter part of 1991 was still about 40 percent and cutput h.;- declined sharply
for two consecutive years. This has resulted in a seriou .a.iiscal deficit,
which could potentially worsen in 1992. Measures taken to confront the
present fiscal crisis are likely to include real expenditure cuts. These
reductions could have an important bearing on the health sector, which relies
almost exclusively on state budget transfers for its financing. It is
becoming increasingly clear that success of the Government's economic reform
program depends to a large extent on measures taken to balance the budget and
reduce the social cost of adjustment. Increasing public expenditure on health
services and deteriorating standards of care could compromise the reform
program.
1.3      The Government's fiscal situation is simultaneously a prime
determinant of the fate of the health system and a consequence of it. Health
expenditure is a significant component of public expenditure which must be
contained to trigger a successful economic recovery. Continued inflation and
increased demand for health services drive up health expenditure; poor
economic growth and public sector budget constraints reduce the health
sector's financial resources. The Government is therefore introducing
measures to enhance cost-containment, to increase cost recovery and to achieve
greater targeting of services. With the collapse of the previous economic



-2-
order, the health sector can no longer depend upon the foundation on which it
was built--public ownership of facilities, public management of services, and
financing through the state budget. In the medium-term, Poland is in critical
need of a radical restructuring of its health sector through the introduction
of a new and more appropriate balance in the public/private mix in ownership,
management and financing.
B. Sector Background
Hgalth Status
1.4      From 1947 to 1964, health status in Poland improved significantly.
As in other parts of Europe, mortality declined, and degenerative and chronic
non-communicable diseases replaced infectious diseases as leading causes of
death. These trends have continued in Western Europe since the mid-1960's.
Since then, however, mortality in Poland and other Eastern European countries
has risen and life expectancy has decreased. This trend has been especially
pronounced for middle-aged men and women. By 1989, life expectancy at birth
in Foland was 67 years for men and 76 years for women, compared with the OECD
range of 70 to 76 years for men and 76 to 81 years for women. During the same
period, there has been a steady decrease ifi life expectancy for adult males.
Between 1970 and 1985 life expectancy for men at age 30 decreased by 1.5
years. The age-standardized death rate from cardiovascular disease increased
by 72 percent for men between 1970 and 1985, whereas there was a reduction of
about 30 percent in most Western European countries. By 1989, male life
expectancy at age 30 was 39 years, and female life expectancy was 47 years.
In contrast to what is observed in other developed and developing countries,
urban adults have a lower life expectancy in Poland than rural adults, despite
a higher crude mortality rate and higher infant mortality rate in rural areas.
In Poland, urban areas appear to be associated with higher health related risk
factors than rural areas (environmental hazards, stressful work, substandard
housing and unhealthy lifestyle). A similar observation was made in many
western countries during the early period of the industrial revolution. With
increased development, these trends reversed themselves in most western
countries.
1.5      Between 1950 and 1990, infant mortality in Poland declined from 111.2
deaths per 1,000 live births to 16.1, but the rate of decline has slowed in
recent years. The infant mortality rate in Poland is lower than the average
for Eastern European countries (18.5 per 1,000 in 1986), but higher than for
Western European countries (5.0 to 14.2 per 1,000). Half of infant deaths
occur in the population group falling below the lower third'of household
income distribution. There are significant differences between regions and
socioeconomic groups. About two-thirds of infant deaths are related to
premature births and perinatal problems; both are indicators of access to
health services and quality of basic care. Post-neonatal mortality,
accounting for the remaining third of all infant deaths, is higher in Poland
than in most Western European countries. It is used as an indicator of poor
environmental hygiene, malnutrition, and lack of basic medical care.



-3-
Health Services
1.6      Structure and Organization.  Health services provided by the Ministry
of Health and Social Welfare (MOH) and voivodships offer a highly structured
network of health care institutions to 90 percent of the population in Poland.
Additional parallel health services are provided by other Ministries,l/
public enterprises, medical cooperatives and a small private sector.
Ownership of health care facilities, provision of health services and
financing is limited almost exclusively to the public sector. The MOH is
responsible for formulating health policies, planning the health care budget,
monitoring and providing a limited range of highly specialized tertiary care.
The 49 voivodships and 400 ZOZ (Zespol Opieki Zdrowotnej - integrated health
and social service units) are responsible for providing the bulk of primary,
secondary and basic tertiary care for the general population. The number of
ZOZs in a single voivodship ranges from 3 to 33. The population covered by a
single ZOZ is uneven, ranging from 30,000 to 150,000 people, with an average
of one ZOZ per 100,000 population.
1.7      Public health and disease prevention activities are carried out at
both national and voivodship levels by the Sanitation and Epidemic Prevention
System (SANEPID). SANEPID stations are responsible for disease surveillance
and reporting, control of communicable diseases, monitoring of environmental
health,/ food hygiene, health education and preventive medicine. One of the
most tangible achievements of the SANEPID stations has been their contribution
to the programs for supplying vaccines to pediatricians and conducting surveys
and follow-up action for the control of communicable diseases. They are also
responsible for determining the safety of workplaces, measuring levels of
risk, enforcing orders to change specific occupational practices, and
undertaking clinical work on occupational diseases with individual workers.
Many of the SANEPID stations have microbiological and immunological
laboratories which provide clinical testing for local hospitals. In contrast,
most public health services found in western countries do not provide clinical
laboratory services for hospitals.
1.8      Health Care Personnel.  Since the 1970s, the total number of doctors,
nurses, dentists, and pharmacists per capita has increased significantly to
reach a doctor/population ratio that is within the mid-range for the OECD, and
similar to that found in many other eastern European counties. By 1990, there
were 21.4 doctors, 4.8 dentists, 54.4 nurses and 6.3 midwives per 10,000
1/ Ministries that provide parallel health services include the Ministry of
Transport (railways), Ministry of Industries (mines, occupational health),
Ministry of Interior (police), Ministry of Defense (armed forces),
Ministry of Justice (prisons) and Ministry of Foreign Affairs (embassies).
The parallel health services provide health care for the remaining
10 percent of the population, while occupational health services provided
by enterprises and the private sector overlap with those of the MOH.
/ The Ministries of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources,
Agriculture, Forestry and Food Economy share responsibility with the MOH's
SANEPID system for monitoring environmental health.



-4
inhabitants in Poland. Distribution of medical personnel is uneven, however,
ranging from 41.8 doctors per 10,000 people in Warsaw to 9.9 in the Siedlce
voivodship. The mix of medical personnel is characterized by a predominance
of specialists, even at the primary care level, where internists,
gynecologists, pediatricians and dentists provide the first point of contact
to the health system. More than 72 percent of the physicians are specialists,
and 50 percent of these have a subspecialty. There are no formal training
programs for preparing doctors for general practice or family medicine. The
nurse/doctor ratio and nurse/bed ratio is low by western standards.
1.9      Physical Resources. Eguipment. SunDlies and Medical Drugs.  The
expansion that took place in Poland's health care resources over the past 20
years led to a marked increase in hospitals, out-patient clinics and medical
centers. By 1990, there were 56 beds per 10,000 population in Poland, which
is in the mid-range of values observed in the OECD. This bed/capita ratio
does not include additional beds found in the parallel health services
provided by other Ministries. There are also 8.9 beds per 10,000 population
in psychiatric hospitals, 1.5 in tuberculosis sanatoriums and 1.6 in other
sanatoriums. Although these additional beds were designed and intended for
acute care, many are used for long-term chronic care due to a shortage of
chronic care beds and related support services elsewhere in the system. Since
acute care beds that are occupied by chronic care patients are not available
for active care, the actual number of active acute care beds in Poland is less
than what is observed in many western countries despite the high number of
total beds. Furthermore, the distribution of hospital beds is uneven, ranging
from 79.6 per 10,000 in Wroclaw to 35.4 in Konin. Construction of hospitals
and clinics has decreased significantly in recent years due to a marked
reduction in the investment budget of the health sector. Medical drugs,
syringes, gloves, needles, small instruments and electronic equipment (much of
which is imported or depends on imported inputs), are in chronic short supply.
Although Poland has a large pharmaceutical industry and capacity to produce
about 80 percent of the drugs it needs, many of the raw materials and semi-
finished products required for production must be imported. At present,
domestic industry is meeting about 60 percent of the country's requirements.
1.10     Utilization of Services.  In 1988, the number of hospital bed days
per capita was 1.3 in Poland, compared with a range of 0.7 to 4.9 in OECD
countries. At 12.6 days, the average length of hospital stay is in the mid-
range of patterns in Western Europe. In OECD countries, the range of the
admission rates was from 5.5 percent to 22.6 percent, and the length of stay
was 6.1 to 34.8 days in 1988, excluding Japan. On average, a person in Poland
visits a physician 7.7 times per year (including dentists), compared with a
range of 2.0 to 12.8 physician visits per person reported in the OECD. Local
aveiages range from 11.4 in Lodz to 4.5 in Siedlce. Unreported visits to
health care facilities, including those in the parallel health services and
private sector, distort what appears to be a low use of health care resources
compared with the range of norms observed in the OECD. Only 62 percent of
patients' contacts were provided by primary health care physicians. Queues,
waiting lists, low-quality services, and supply shortages create a barrier to
access that prevents utilization rates being a good indicator of demand.



-5-
Health Financing
1.11     Overall ExRenditures.  The estimated total health care expenditure in
Poland for 1991 is Zloty (ZL) 48.8 trillion (US$4.23 billion) or 5.4 percent
of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The health sector's claim on GDP in Poland
is similar to estimates of health care expenditure for other Central and
Eastern European countries and for developing countries with similar national
incomes, but in the low range of expenditure reported by the OECD, excluding
Turkey (5.3 to 11.2 percent of GDP). In 1991, the recurrent and capital
expenditure budget for health services provided by MOH accounted for 80
percent of total health care expenditure. MOH's share excludes expenditure on
health services provided by enterprises, parallel health services provided by
other Ministries, and out-of-pocket expenditure by households. During the
late 1970s to mid-1980s, total expenditure on health services provided by the
MOH increased both in nominal and constant values. It also increased relative
to GDP and to general government expenditure. This growth slowed dramatically
in 1989, and both capital and current expenditure on health care decreased
markedly in real terms in 1990 and 1991.
1.12     Recurrent and Capital Expenditure.  Throughout the 1980s, the most
significant rQcurrent expenditure categories in the health sector were wages
at about 30 percent and drugs at about 15 percent. Other categories under
material expenses such as food, energy, services and maintenance, made up a
much smaller proportion of recurrent expenditures. The low relative wage
structure for health care workers and high expenditure on drugs and imported
medical equipment distort relative expenditure on these categories in Poland
compared with western countries where salaries comprise more than 60 percent
of recurrent expenditure. Construction costs comprise 60-70 percent of total
capital expenditure and 80 percent of accumulated assets. Capital expenditure
has decreased relative to GDP and in constant values during the late 1980s.
In 1991, the ratio of capital expenditure to total expenditure in the health
sector dropped to 8.2 percent.
1.13     Budget Process.  The MOH and other ministries that operate parallel
health services each prepare their own independent budget. MOH has a central
budget for institutions under its direct responsibility, while institutions at
the regional and ZOZ levels are financed through the central government's
budgetary transfers to voivodships. The central government budget provides
financing for the general administration of MOH, specialized national
institutions, university-affiliated hospitals and special national programs.
The voivodship budget provides financing for regional, district and community
and associated institutions at the community level. In principle, voivodship
budgets are to be determined by catchment area population, the number of beds,
and the number of medical personnel. In practice, the budget is determined by
historical allocations adjusted for deficits, inflation, and the individual
negotiating power of directors, local authorities, and other interest groups.
1.14     Source of Financing.  Health services provided by MOH, the parallel
services provided by other Ministries, and occupational health services
provided by public enterprises are all financed through the state budget
(90 percent of total sources of financing). With the exception of nominal co-
payments for some drugs and gratuities, there is no direct individual



- 6 -
responsibility for financing health care such as user charges or insurance
contributions, Out-of-pocket household expenditure is estimated at 10 percent
of total sources of financir.g. Private health insurance does not exist. By
contrast, in most OECD countries, public financing (general revenues, social
insurance and statutory health insurance) accounted for 41-97 percent of total
health care expenditure in 1987.
C. Sector Issues
1.15     Many problems plague the Polish health sector.  Those described in
the following sections were identified by a joint World Bank/Government Task
Force during 1990 and 1991 as issues that need to be addressed most urgently
during Poland's economic stabilization and transition to a market economy.
They include: (a) poor health; (b) ineffective specialization;
(c) inefficient bureaucracy; and (d) distorted priorities.
Poor Health
1.16     Health Status.  Declining health status, rising mortality rates and
low life expectancy compared with western countries are the most serious
challenges that face the health sector in Poland. Experience from western and
developing countries suggests that life expectancy increases with development,
irrespective of specific health sector interventions. The most important
determinants of good health are level of income, standards of living, good
housing, adequate diet, healthy lifestyle and safe workplaces--not health
services. Poverty, substandard housing, poor diets, smoking, alcohol
consumption, stressful work, accidents and environmental hazards all
contribute to poor health and ultimately to mortality. With the exception of
health promotion and public health programs, traditional health services do
not address most of these problems. For life expectancy to fall in Poland,
some form of reverse development has taken place under which health-related
living conditions deteriorated to such an extent that mortality rates rose.
The core of this bleak situation lies mainly in rising mortality from
cardiovascular diseases, stroke and cancers, which has exceeded gains from
continuing decreases in infant mortality. A major health sector priority must
be to address effectively this deterioration in health status, while
preserving achievements in communicable diseases control, and maternal and
child health.
1.17     Public Health Institutions.  The SANEPID stations have been
ineffective in controlling environmental pollution and reducing lifestyle risk
factors. The total number of epidemiologists per capita may be higher in
Poland than in other European countries, but their work is mainly descriptive.
Lack of adequate data processing has no doubt contributed to this weakness
along with the uncompetitive and sheltered intellectual environment of the
past. The activities of SANEPID stations led to few positive outcomes, partly
as a result of an inability to influence legislation, policy or public
attitudes, and partly because of the prevailing attitude that 'to measure the
problem is to solve the problem'. Tests to measure pollution continue to be
conducted without introducing effective policies or programs to deal with the



- 7 -
measured phenomena. Volumes of other data are painstakingly and
systematically collected without effective interventions. Although the
Government recognizes that health promotion and prevention are the means to
reduce morbidity and mortality, clear action and Implementation in this area
have been difficult (e.g., the proposed Smoking Control Bill has not yet been
passed by Parliament).
1.18     Health Promotion Proframs.  Preventive services are especially
vulnerable during the present economic crisis because they are likely to have
their budgets cut to a proportionally greater extent than curative services.
Such cuts could undermine the continuation of essential and effective services
for women and children (e.g., immunization, prenatal care), and could delay or
prevent the launching of new initiatives in such areas as family planning.
Legal abortion is used extensively to limit fertility. Lack of information
and access to alternative and affordable methods of birth control contribute
to this trend. This is both medically inappropriate and economically
inefficient. In the past, prevention was excluded from the scope of health
care in Poland. During the 1970s, the deteriorating health status of the
population was known by the Government but was not revealed for political
reasons. A National Health Strategy was approved by the Economic Commission
in June 1990, but the MOH has been unable to mobilize the financial resources
and institutional capacity to develop and implement proposed programs such as
school health education, anti-smoking measures and workplace safety. Despite
obvious financial constraints, occupational health services continue to
misdirect their scarce financial resources toward curative services for
privileged groups rather than toward protection of workers. Similarly, the
SANEPID stations continue to conduct microbiological and immunological tests
for acute care hospitals instead of devoting scarce resources to combatting
the leading threats to public health.
Ineffective Specialization
1.19     Services.  Despite the highly structured character of Polish health
services, functional distinctions between primary, secondary and tertiary
levels of care are often unclear. Lack of basic equipment, supplies, drugs,
social services and home care in the primary care setting, and the narrow
range of clinical skills of non-hospital based doctors, make it impossible for
services to function properly at the primary care level. The use of medical
specialists rather than general practitioners as the first point of patient
contact with the health care system amplifies this problem. Compulsory
catchment areas and the role of primary care doctors as gatekeepers are
unpopular with patients who rightfully feel they are wasting time in queues
only to be told that services they need are not available at that level of
care. Not surprisingly, patients are willing to pay substantial gratuities to
be referred quickly to higher levels of care. This leads to inappropriate
referrals to more specialized levels of care for problems that could have been
treated adequately at the community and district levels, if equipment and
properly trained staff were available. More specialized, expensive and often
distant regional and national institutions end up providing first line care
not only to their immediate catchment populations but also to patients from
vastly different parts of the country. Simply designating some centers for
highly specialized care and others for primary care has not solved this



problem. Combined with a chronic shortage of nurses, auxiliary and primary
health care workers, the result is ineffective fragmentation of primary care
and poor targeting of vulnerable populations.
1.20     Training.  The orientation of Polish health services towards
super-specialization has much to do with unbalanced postgraduate medical
education and the power base that specialists enjoy within the medical
establishment. Postgraduate medical schools in Poland have not kept up with
trends in many western and developing countries of restructuring part of their
medical education towards training primary care doctors and allied health care
workers, and introducing financial incentives that make community-based
services attractive to both patients and health care workers. Instead, the
near public sector monopoly and low quality of most ambulatory clinics create
strong negative incentives for doctors who might otherwise be attracted by
general practice. A continued increase in the total number of specialists per
capita, without a balance in the number of general practitioners, community
nurses and other auxiliary health care workers, will have serious consequences
for the Polish health care system in the future in terms of quality of care,
targeting of vulnerable populations and health care expenditure. A major
health sector priority must therefore be to address this problem by providing
better training and improved conditions of service for primary care doctors
and allied health care workers.
Inefficient Bureaucracy
1.21     Management.  Health services in Poland are poorly managed.  Rigid
bureaucracy, with strict adherence to arbitrary norms, deprive directors and
health personnel of the flexibility to determine local priorities and to
allocate resources according to specific needs. The lack of management-based
information systems (data on health outcomes, performance of health services
and expenditure trends) prevents policy makers, managers and other health care
professionals from maximizing effectiveness and efficiency in provision of
services. Instead, administrators implement central dictates with little
scope for individual decision-making. Most hospital directors are doctors
with no training in health care management or access to basic management tools
such as information systems to assist in record keeping (admission/discharge
data), accounting, personnel management, materials management, equipment
management and tracking utilization patterns (drug monitoring). Highly
specialized health care workers waste time performing administrative duties
rather than the medical care for which they were trained, and there are no
university programs for training health care managers. As the health sector
continues to experience strong inflationary pressures with respect to the
prices of pharmaceuticals, imported medical technology, and the relative wage
of health workers, and as financial resources from the state budget decrease
in real terms, it becomes increasingly critical to achieve marginal gains
through more effective use of scarce resources and efficient management.
1.22     Incentives.  There are no incentives in the Polish health care system
to stimulate effective and efficient work habits among managers and health
care providers; there are no deterrents, other than queues and poor quality
services, to prevent patients from using services needlessly. Rules on
non-fungibility among budget categories prevent directors of institutions from



- 9 -
adjusting their operations to specific contexts; rules requiring the return of
budget surpluses and the cancelling of deficits at the end of the year
encourage a mentality of deficit financing and remove all incentive to balance
the budget. Doctors working on salaries have few incentives to deal with
complex problems themselves, but are easily tempted to minimize their work
load by referring patients to higher levels of care. Likewise, directors of
hospitals have a strong incentive to refer difficult cases to higher levels of
care--the less work, the less strain on their global budgets. Salaries of
most health care workers are at the bottom of the list for the public sector.
As a result of such perverse incentives, there are often queues and waiting
lists even though visits and beds per capita are high compared with western
standards. Improvements in management techniques are unlikely to be
successful unless underpinned by more positive incentive structures.
1.23     Budgeting.  Budget allocation in the health sector is historical and
resource-driven, with political factors playing a large part. Institutions
that have more beds receive larger budgets, irrespective of how well these
beds are used. This is one of the reasons Poland has such a high
bed/population ratio compared with western countries. Directors have been
quick to learn that putting 6-8 beds in a room built for 4 beds significantly
increases their budget. Not surprisingly, the correlation between recurrent
or capital expenditure and populations is weak; the.correlation between
capital expenditure and accumulated assets is equally weak. Such manipulation
of the budget rules reinforces existing geographic disparities. Since mid-
1989, inflation has made the budget process extremely difficult for local
administrators. At the regional level, many western countries are moving
towards using demographic, morbidity and socio-economic factors in preparing
regional budgets and planning the geographic distribution of health care
resources. Poland is looking to introduce a similar system in the future, but
lacks knowledge and experience in this area.
1.24     Cost and Financing.  Currently, Polish firms faced with increased
competition and the possibility of bankruptcy are forced to cut costs not
directly related to production. This includes expenditure on enterprise-based
health services. Heavy reliance on the state budget as the principal source
of financing makes the health sector in Poland extremely vulnerable to
restrictive fiscal policies and high inflation. At the same time as financial
resources are decreasing, expenditure on health care is rapidly increasing.
Since 1989, there has been an explosion in the cost of pharmaceuticals due to
a rapid removal of subsidies, quick deregulation and privatization (importers,
manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers), and liberalization of prices
without effective counter measures to contain utilization. This resulted in a
disproportionate increase in expenditure on pharmaceuticals compared with the
rest of the health sector (20 percent of the total health care budget in 1991
and nearly 50 percent of the MOH budget). Imported medical equipment has
followed the same trend. Faced with budgetary cuts and increasing expenditure
and demand, the MOH has found it necessary to suspend all but the most urgent



- 10 -
capital investment projects../ A growing part of the health care recurrent
budget is now being spent on the repair of outmoded and inefficient
facilities, with future investment needs increasing over time. Faced with
these problems, the MOH is looking to health insurance as a source of health
care financing, but has yet to examine the feasibility and draft a concrete
proposal for this alternative to financing through the state budget.
Distorted Priorities
1.25     Ineffectiye Planing.  Under the previous system, the health sector
relied on policies that were drawn up at the supra-ministerial level in the
form of 5-year national plans. When the last 5-year plan expired, the health
sector was left without direction for the future and without experienced staff
to assume this role. Many of the potential advantages of national policy
making were lost in the process. There was little sharing of services at the
voivodship level, and no joint management of materials or equipment. A belief
in economies of scale led to the construction of massive multi-pavilion
hospitals and large polyclinics. Most of the advantages of size are lost
through poor communication between pavilions, poor integration among different
levels of care and the additional cost to pay for the utilities of these
complexes. Large 1,200- to 1,600-bed hospitals make visiting by both families
and doctors difficult. There are also significant overlaps in some services
provided by the MOH, other Ministries and occupational health services while
there are shortages of other services. These duplications are wasteful and
becoming increasingly difficult to justify in the face of limited financial
resources. Enterprises are already looking at how to decrease their
responsibility for occupational health services which add to their operating
costs without providing any apparent benefit in terms of production or
prevention of occupational related illness. Many spas and sanitoria provide
luxury rather than standard rehabilitation. Ambulances are often used for
cases that are not emergencies but in which the patients have no other means
of transportation. The resulting health service is costly, and often provides
ineffective, inefficient and low quality care.
1.26     Integration of Services.  Instead of providing comprehensive and
integrated services with continuity of care, the highly structured National
Health Service in Poland creates many direct barriers to access. Lack of
functional links between ambulatory and institutional care, and between health
and social services make integrated services and continuity in care an
illusion. Lack of same-day surgery, pre-admission testing and post-discharge
home care result in excessive and inappropriate reliance on institutional
care. Health systems in many Western European countries are striving for more
integrated ambulatory, hospital, emergency care and laboratory services to a
defined catchment population. Poland already nominally has the appearance of
such integrated services in the form of its voivodships and ZOZ health
services, but these structures function poorly and provide little continuity
of care. The voivodships often have populations that are too small to support
i/ In 1990, MOH resources fell significantly short of requirements for
completing investments in planned hospital beds, chronic care facilities,
nursery places, outpatient departments and rural health centers.



advanced higher level care. The ZOZ catchment areas are too small for an
efficient utilization of resources, and management is ineffective due to the
highly centralized, top-down structure of the system.
D. Government Program
1.27     In 1990, with input from a Joint Government/World Bank Task Force on
Health System Reform, the Polish Government formulated the strategic framework
for a fundamental systemic reform in the health sector._/  The Government
places a high priority on improving health as a vital strategy in reversing
the bleak social conditions left by decades of poor standards of living,
disregard for the environment, unhealthy lifestyles and misdirected priorities
in provision of health services. Furthermore, an improved health care system
is critical to strengthening the safety net to protect poor and vulnerable
population groups both during and after the transition. The Government
recognizes that major restructuring of the health care system will require
time and cannot take place through simple remedial measures to address
isolated problems. Upgrading health services to western standards is far
beyond the financial resources that will be available to the health sector in
the near future. The Government does not intend now to address all the issues
in the health sector. Instead, it will address only those priorities that
would have the greatest impact on improving health, increasing effectiveness
and efficiency in the provision of health care and transferring some of the
responsibility for financing health care from the state budget to contributory
social insurance.
1.28     To provide an appropriate legal framework for implementing these
strategies in the health sector, the Government has introduced a number of
important policies since 1990, submitted legislation to Parliament, and is in
the process of passing critical regulations: (a) a National Health Promotion
Strategy was formulated in 1990 to develop health promotion programs that
would address key preventable threats to health; (b) a Health Care
Institutions Act was passed in 1991 that will allow establishment of private
practice and a greater role of the private sector in the provision of health
services; (c) a Pharmaceutical Act was passed in 1991 that will increase cost
recovery, redefine entitlement, and introduce criteria for a limited drug
formulary; and (d) the Health Care Provisions under the Local Government Act,
which was passed by Parliament two years ago, would support efforts to
decentralize the health care system by significantly increasing the
responsibility of local government for the financing and provision of health
care. Additional regulations are being prepared in the area of minimum health
data set, accounting and pharmaceutical monitoring.
i/ The Bank's analytical contribution to the Task Force is documented in a
World Bank report entitled Poland Health System Reform: Meeting the
Challenge, (Gray Cover), Report No. 9182-POL, January 1992.



- 12 -
1.29     In a clear departure from past centralized state control, the
Government's strategy for reform in the health sector is to address many of
the issues that were discussed above by reorganizing the provision of health
services in regions of more appropriate population size, integrating the
various tiers and providers of health services within a given region, and
decentralizing their management. Within each region, the Government would
support specific programs to strengthen public health and prevention, primary
health care, and health care management and would reorganize the structure and
function of health services. In designing its health reform strategy and
programs, the Government has determined that it is necessary to launch well-
integrated national initiatives on a broad front. Given limited fiscal
resources for the initial capital investment required, the Government will
need to proceed selectively with regional restructuring of health services.
In view of these factors, the Government has identified a first group of
regions where health services will be restructured and where national programs
can be introduced and refined, prior to nationwide implementation. This
approach, which is necessarily complex and phased in its development, is the
basis for the design of the proposed project.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.30     As the second year of Poland's Economic Transformation Program draws
to a close, it is becoming increasingly clear that success will depend to a
great extent on measures to reduce the social cost of the transformation to a
market economy. Measures to alleviate the initial wave of unemployment and
poverty have stood up well, but continued restructuring of the economy, in
particular of public enterprises, could lead to additional unemployment in the
immediate future. Although these factors are fostering doubts in Poland about
the soundness of the economic reform program, a return to low growth and
continued hyperinflation would waste important gains made so far and lead to
further economic hardship in the near future. The alternative to a reversal
in the country's economic strategy is to alleviate some of the associated
social burdens by radical reform in some of the vulnerable programs that are
part of the safety net. Unless quickly addressed, critical issues relating to
public expenditure on health care and deteriorating standards of care now
threaten to jeopardize this strategy.
1.31     The Bank's sector dialogue and involvement in project preparation
have already assisted the Government to develop new strategies, policies and
programs to restructure the health sector in support of a new and more
appropriate balance in the public/private mix. The proposed Health Services
Development Project would provide more effective targeting of poor and
vulnerable populations; increase the effectiveness, efficiency and quality of
care; and improve institutional capacity in policy making, planning and
evaluation of the MOH and related institutions. Many components of the
project have foreign currency requirements and need for foreign technical
assistance that are far beyond the capacity of local financial resour^os or
those that can be mobilized through the international donor communit,. The
Government is therefore seeking a World Bank loan to launch its health sector
reform. The proposed loan and project are envisaged as a first phase in a
sustained program of World Bank support for the health sector in Poland.



- 13 -
F. Role of Other Donors
1.32     The Commission of the European Communities (EC) has been closely
involved in project development. EC-sponsored health specialists participated
in the July 1991 preappraisal and October 1991 appraisal. The EC has approved
European Currency Units (ECU) 20.0 million (about US$25.0 million) in grant
fund cofinancing. MOH is being supported in its project preparation efforts
with technical assistance mobilized by the Bank and funded by the Governments
of Denmark, Japan, Sweden and the United States, and by direct technical
assistance from Project Hope. The Government is also receiving support in the
health sector from the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, UNFPA
(population policy and analysis); United Nations Development Program, UNDP
(short-term advisory services); World Health Organization, WHO (technical
assistance in policy evaluation and AIDS control); Austria (fellowships for
medical students); Italy (equipment for a hospital in Zamosc); the Netherlands
(fellowships and hospital quality improvement); Switzerland (technical
assistance and medical equipment); the United Kingdom (technical assistance);
and the U.S. (emergency medicines, hospital development and technical support
to the MOH through Project Hope).



- 14 -
II. THE PROJECT
2.1      The project would support the Government's economic reform program by
improving health, strengthening the health sector's contribution to the social
safety net, and containing upward pressure from the health sector on the state
budget.  The project would have four specific objectives:
(a)  to improve health status by strengthening health promotion
and prevention programs;
(b)  to support the first steps in restructuring the health sector by
shifting the focus from institutional care to effective primary care
through better trained primary care doctors and nurses;
(c)  to strengthen institutional capacity in policy making, planning,
management and evaluation by providing policymakers and managers
access to improved information systems and management development;
and
(d)  to ensure sustainability of services and control costs in the health
sector in the medium-term by improving effectiveness, efficiency and
quality of service delivery in three project regions.
2.2      The project would provide technical assistance, training, equipment
and civil works (US$182.6 million equivalent base cost; and US$227.0 million
total cost including contingencies). It would comprise the following four
components and would be implemented over a period of seven years:
(a)  Health Promotion
(i)   Health Promotion Programs
(ii) Training of Health Educators
(iii) Occupational Health
(b)  Primary Health Care
(i)   Primary Care Practices
(ii) In-Service Training
(c)  Health Management
(i)   Hospital Admission/Discharge Information and Accounting
(national)
(ii)  Pharmaceutical Monitoring (national)
(iii) Budgeting
(iv)  Management Development
(v)   Health Financing
(d)  Regional Health Services
(i)   Regional Management
(ii)  Infrastructure Consolidation
(iii) Admission Discharge (A/D) Information and Accounting (regional)
(iv)  Pharmaceutical Monitoring (regional)
(v)   Materials and Technology Management



- 15 -
2.3      A special feature of the project design is the initial targeted
application of components (a), (b) and (c) in three project regions under
component (d) to maximize impact.  Health services within the three regions
would be reorganized as "health consortia" of participating voivodships.
Concurrently, the project would also contribute to progressive strengthening
of the entire health sector through specific aspects of components (a), (b),
and (c) that would be implemented in a phased manner at the national level.
A. Health Promotion
(estimated base cost US$7.5 million)
2.4      The Health Promotion component would help:  (a) consolidate national
efforts to support selected health promotion activities focused on critical
and preventable risk factors (tobacco and alcohol consumption, and unhealthy
diets); (b) strengthen capacity in health education (public awareness
campaigns, schools and family planning). The project would also (c) support
studies, policy development, and planning of programs to address occupational
health and safety issues.
2.5      Health Promotion Programs.  This subcomponent would support policies
to improve health status by strengthening health promotion and prevention
programs. Improving health of the population should be the most important
priority of the new health care system in Poland. The project would increase
the institutional capacity of the National Board for Health Promotion (NBHP),
established by the MOH in the Institute of Hygiene, to design and coordinate
the implementation of such programs at national and regional levels.j/ NBHP
would implement the National Health Promotion Strategy drafted and approved by
the MOH in 1990. A first priority for the NBHP would be preparation of
education and counseling programs to address critical and preventable health
risks stemming from tobacco and alcohol consumption, unhealthy diets and
occupational hazards. It would also develop programs in family planning, and
maternal and child health. During the first phase of the project, the NBHP
would develop a capacity to assist the three project regional health promotion
units in designing and implementing health promotion programs. During
subsequent phases of the project, the NBHP would assist other regions in
Poland to introduce similar programs. The NBHP would also develop a capacity
to monitor and evaluate health promotion programs implemented in the three
project regions and other parts of Poland. This would include support for
community outreach programs.
2.6      The project would strengthen the NBHP through:  (a) fellowships and
degree programs in public health, health education, mass marketing and
communications; (b) technical assistance to design health promotion
strategies, monitoring and evaluation; and (c) provision of equipment and
technical assistance to design, produce and disseminate health promotion and
1/ The NBHP comprises a full-time director, who has already been appointed,
and assistant directors for programs, research, resources and public
relations, who will be developed and trained under the project.



- 16 -
health education materials. The project would provide a total of 72 staff
months of technical assistance, 12 staff months of fellowships, office
equipment, audio-visual equipment, teaching aids, and computer hardware and
software.
2.7      Training of Health Educators.  This subcomponent would support design
of health education curricula and training of health educators, other health
professionals, and non-health professionals (such as journalists and primary
school teachers) in the School of Public Health at the University oE Krakow,
National Institute of Hygiene, Institute of Occupational Medicine at Lodz, and
Institute of Cardiology. The project would provide fellowships and degree
programs for faculty development. The facilities and equipment of the school
would be upgraded to support the new program. Capability in design and
editing of health education materials would be developed through technical
assistance, training, equipment and other materials. The project would
provide a total of 7 staff months of technical assistance, 626 staff months of
fellowships, and in-service training of about 800 local staff.
2.8      Occupational Health.  This subcomponent would strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Institute of Occupational Medicine (IOM) in Lodz
to design and implement occupational health policies. It would assist the MOH
to adopt the International Labor Organization (ILO) Convention 161, which
pr,vides for protection of employees against health hazards at the workplace.
The project would provide study tours and in-country technical assistance to
the IOM in developing occupational health standards, workplace inspection
guidelines and policies to enforce surveillance of workplace safety standards.
Assistance would be provided for the IOM to organize a team of national
experts in occupational medicine. Thiis team would participate in study tours
abroad to increase their understanding of design and implementation of
occupational safety programs and th-ereafter develop standards in occupational
health and safety to protect workers from occupational diseases and injuries.
The project would provide a total of 36 staff months of technical assistance
and 5 staff months of fellowships.
B. Primary.,.ealth Care
(estimated base cost US$38.3 million)
2.9      The Primary Health Care component would initiate a fundamental
restructuring of the health sector by strengthening community-based primary
care teams which would include family doctors, community nurses and allied
primary health care workers. Family doctors would be trained to provide
comprehensive first line care, including family planning, to the general
population, to ensure continuity in care by specialists, and to coordinate the
resources needed to provide adequate long-term chronic care in the community.
Academic training units would be established at existing academic
institutions, while in-service training would be established in community-
based teaching practices. Nurses and other allied primary health care workers
would also be trained. As an incentive for general practitioners to undergo
retraining, the Government would introduce licensing requirements and
continued accreditation of family doctors. Licensing of doctors in private



- 17 -
practice would samilarly be contingent upon adequate training and
certification. The project would provide local training of 500 primary care
doctors, and upgrading of the physical facilities and equipment of 500 primary
care practices (200 supported by the Bank and 300 by the EC)./ The EC would
also provide additional training facilities in academic institutions outside
the three project regions.
2.10     Primarv Care Practices.  This subcomponent would support development
of primary care training units associated with existing medical academic
institutions in the three project regions. Following faculty development and
curriculum design in 1992-93, the three regional training units (RTUs) would
provide an intensive course in the techniques of teaching family medicine to
200 doctors. These doctors would subsequently become the clinical teachers
for the future cadre of family practitioners in the three project regions.
The project would support upgrading of the clinical facilities, equipment,
teaching materials and library materials used in family medicine teaching
practices in the community and hospitals. The project would subsequently
support a three-year certification program in family medicine for aspiring
doctors. Each RTU would provide a formal three-year postgraduate program in
family medicine. These programs would include clinical training at designated
hospitals, supervised in-service training in approved primary care teaching
practices and in disciplines necessary to operate a family practice
effectively and efficiently (practice management skills, budgeting, resource
allocation, monitoring and evaluation). The initial teaching practices would
accommodate up to 200 students per year in the three-year program. A Steering
Committee for Primary Care, appointed by the MOH during project preparation,
has already initiated start-up activities. The project would provide
technical assistance to allow the Steering Committee to evolve into a National
Board for Primary Care, which would be responsible for overseeing curriculum
development for family medicine, research and information-sharing. The
project would provide a total of 91 staff months of technical assistance, 495
staff months of fellowships, in-service training of local staff, medical
equipment and refurbishment of 500 PCPs, office equipment, audio-visual
equipment, materials, and computer hardware and software.
2.11     In-Service Traininj.  This subcomponent would strengthen the primary
care team by upgrading in-service training in selected teaching hospitals,
community clinics and training practices of teachers of family medicine. It
would provide technical assistance in short-term manpower planning, upgrading
of training facilities and development of programs needed to strengthen in-
service training of doctors, nurses and allied primary health care workers
(community nurses, midwives, rehabilitation workers and social workers). It
is expected that the activities initiated under this component would attract
additional investments from other external donors. The project would provide
i/ The Commission of the European Communities (EC) has approved a grant
(ECU 20 million) to train 300 of the 500 primary care doctors and to
upgrade the facilities and equipment of 300 of the 500 practices to be
developed under the project. Upgrading costs of the 200 PCPs supported by
the Bank are included under the Infrastructure Consolidation subcomponent
of Part D - Regional Health Services (para 2.25).



- 18 -
a total of 82 staff months of technical assistance, 614 staff months of
fellowships, 800 staff months of in-service training of local staff, computer
hardware and software and training materials.
C. Health Management
(estimated base cost US$46.3 million)
2.12     The Health Management component would strengthen institutional
capacity in health care management by providing managers with the tools and
knowledge to operate their institutions more effectively and efficiently. It
would support strengthening of institutional capacity in budgeting and the
first steps in restructuring health care financing away from nearly exclusive
reliance on the state budget. The component comprises six inter-linked
subcomponents: (a) hospital admission/discharge information systems;
(b) accounting information systems; (c) budgeting; (d) pharmaceutical
registration and monitoring; (e) management education; and (f) health
financing. Activities are focused on improving decision-making through basic
information systems and developing professional health services management in
Poland through education and training.
2.13     Hospital Admission/Discharge (A/D) Information (national).  Data
collection on patient admission and discharge would be standardized for
hospitals nationwide. Training would be provided in data coding, transfer
from paper to electronic form, aggregation of data from local to national
levels, and analysis and interpretation of data. Local managers would be
trained to use the data for decision-making. Automation of the system would
be undertaken initially in the three project regions and later throughout the
country to provide by project completion a comprehensive nationwide data base.
A disease monitoring system, using population-based techniques, would be
developed and implemented later during the project to permit routine
monitoring of hospital utilization patterns and eventually of the costs of
hospital services provided to defined populations. A Steering Committee for
Information Systems (SCIS) has been appointed by MOH, with representatives
from the three project regions, to coordinate the automation of the A/D
information, accounting, and drug monitoring systems. Minor renovation would
be provided for selected admission/discharge offices to accommodate their new
activities. The system would have the capacity to be expanded, as skills
develop and resources become available, to include outpatient services,
personnel management, materials management, technology management and other
services such as laboratory services and radiology centers. The project would
provide technical assistance to develop and implement the system, in-service
training of staff and the needed software, hardware and materials.
Computerization of the A/D information would be closely coordinated with the
accounting and pharmaceutical subcomponents and similarly phased in
countrywide. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the MOH would issue a
regulation on the recommended minimum data set of patient information.



- 19 -
2.14     Accounting (national).  This subcomponent would introduce national
standards for accounting practices (new charts of accounts and double entry
ledger systems) throughout the health sector. The system would be introduced
in three phases: (a) during the first phase, selected health care
institutions in the three project regions would serve as development sites to
design and fine-tune the system; (b) during the second phase, the system would
be introduced in most health care institutions in the three project regions
(small institutions of less than 200 beds would be provided with only minimal
computer equipment) and the accounting offices in the voivodships; and (c) in
the third phase the system would be introduced countrywide. Local managers of
health services would be trained to use the system to track expenditures,
identify ways to contain costs and operate their services effectively and
efficiently. Clinicians would be trained to identify cost effective treatment
by combining financial data with information from the admission/discharge
information system. The project would also develop the capacity to aggregate
financial data in a meaningful way at the local, regional and national levels,
to use these data to analyze costs and expenditure trends, and provide a
dynamic and continuous feedback to policymakers, managers and health care
providers. The project would provide the software, hardware, office
equipment, training and needed renovation to computerize the accounting
systems in the health sector..Z/ The project would provide a total of 187
staff months of technical assistance, 11 staff months of fellowships, in-
service training of local staff, equipment, materials, computer hardware and
software, and reference materials for the hospital A/D information
(para. 2.13) and accounting subcomponents of the project. As a condition of
loan effectiveness, the KOH would lssue a regulation on accounting practices
in health care institutions.
2.15     Pharmaceutical Monitoring and Ouality Control (national).  This
subcomponent would address the recent escalation in public expenditure on
drugs and the resulting budget crisis in the health sector. The project would
support development of policies, institutions and technical capacity to
examine drugs, assess their cost-effectiveness and monitor their utilization.
The project would support computerization of the pharmacy outlets (for
example, in public hospitals and clinics) that remain public after extensive
privatization of pharmacy retailers. The new computer system would enable
comprehensive reporting of utilization patterns and prescription practices.
Private pharmacies would be required to comply with similar reporting by
submitting billing in electronic form. The subcomponent would first be
introduced in the three project regions and subsequently countrywide, parallel
to development of the A/D information and accounting systems. The project
would also provide technical assistance to begin upgrading existing drug
regulations to European standards. The project would support restructuring
and strengthening of the National Drug Institute (NDI) and Department of
Pharmacy in the MOH. A National Pharmaceutical Monitoring Center established
]/ Computer hardware purchased for the Hospital Admission/Discharge
Information system would be used also for the Accounting system. The two
activitiez are therefore combined as a single subcomponent in project
costing.



- 20 -
in NDI would be strengthened. Activities would include: (a) creation of a
nationwide standard data set for reporting the utilization of prescription and
non-prescription drugs financed by the Government's drug program;
(b) identification of doctors, pharmacies and patients through the use of
standard identification numbers; and (c) development of a capacity to
aggregate data at regional and national levels, analyze the information at the
national level, and provide a dynamic and continuous feedback to policymakers,
managers and health care providers. Local managers and clinicians would be
trained to use the system to control needless expenditure on drugs. The
project would provide a total of 116 staff months of technical assistance, 11
staff months of fellowships, 294 staff months of in-service training of local
staff, equipment, materials, and computer hardware and software. As a
condition of loan effectiveness, the MOH would issue a regulation requiring
registration of drugs and a standard format for drug prescriptions (reporting
in Daily Drug Dosage [DDDsI and use of an Anatomic Chemical Therapeutic [ACT)
coding system or similar international standards).
2.16     Budzetine.  This subcomponent would develop a more efficient and
equitable basis for preparing the yearly recurrent health budget for the
voivodships and setting priorities for capital investments. New objective
criteria would be introduced in the later years of the project by the MOH and
MOF during preparation of the annual voivodship budgets. These criteria would
be based on demography, morbidity, socio-economic factors, existing health
care resources, cross-boundary flows and market forces. Data generated
through the admission/discharge and accounting information systems would
contribute to the new budget process. The project would provide a total of 26
staff months of technical assistance, 8 staff months of fellowships, in-
service training of local staff, equipment, materials, computer hardware and
software, and reference materials.
2.17     Management Development.  This subcomponent would strengthen
institutions, programs and information resources needed to train health care
managers. Centers for undergraduate and graduate education in health services
management would be established in relevant departments of universities
(Warsaw, Wroclaw, Krakow and Lodz). Once established, these centers would
develop degree and continuing education programs in health services management
during the project. Faculty development would be supported through
postgraduate degree fellowships abroad in health economics, health services
management, human resources management (personnel), business administration,
medical sociology, information science, and technology assessment. Existing
faculties would be provided support for short-term study abroad and
participation in professional conferences. The project would provide 317
staff months of specialist services to develop curricula for degree programs
and continuing education. The project would also provide 531 staff months of
fellowships abroad for these programs and 63 staff months of in-service
training of local staff. Each of the centers would be equipped with computer
hardware and software, library resources, and other materials.



- 21 -
2.18     Health Financing.  This subcomponent would assist Poland to assess
potential sources of health care financing other than the state budget. The
project would support feasibility scudies on: (a) the introduction of
contributory health insurance; (b) cost recovery; (c) private sector health
services; and (d) preparation of draft legislation on health financing. The
project would provide 12 staff months of fellowships, technical assistance,
equipment, and materials.
D. Regional Health Services (Consortia)
(estimated base cost US$90.5 million)
2.19     The Regional Health Services component would initiate a
decentralization of the Polish health care delivery system in voivodships
belonging to three project regions known as Ciechanow, Pomerania, and
Wielkopolski (see Map). These regions comprise 10 of Poland's 49 voivodships
and account for 16 percent of total population. One hundred twenty five of
Poland's 750 health care institutions are located in these three project
regions. Ciechanow region consists of two voivodships in central Poland
(Ciechanow and Ostroleka) and has a population of 0.48 million. Pomerania
includes three voivodships in north western Poland (Koszalin, Szczecin, and
Gorzow) and is inhabited by 2 million people. Wielkopolski consists of five
voivodships in midwest Poland (Kalisz, Konin, Leszno, Pila, and Poznan) and
has a total population of 3.4 million people.
2.20     The three project regions were selected in April 1991 through a
nationwide competitive process organized by MOH. In consultation with the
Bank, the MOH developed a request for preposals on the regionalization of
health services and evaluation criteria that were provided to all voivodship
health authorities (see Annex 1).  The competition provided impetus for
voivodships to collaborate on health reform initiatives. Approximately 20
proposals were received by the MOH. Technical assistance was provided during
project preparation to assist the three selected regions to develop their
proposals for a regional management structure. A National Consortia
Development Group (NCDG), comprising experts from the MOH, National Center for
Health System Management and Polish universities, facilitated project
preparation in the regions and coordinated joint technical assistance
activities.
2.21     The new regional organizational structures are called "health
consortia". Relying heavily on local application of capacities and programs
developed in the preceding three components, the project would support in each
of the project region3: (a) strengthening of policy making, planning;
management and evaluation capacity through design of priority health programs
(health promotion, primary care, strategic master plans for health care
facilities, management information systems and human resources development)
that would be implemented later during the project; (b) beginning of a
restructuring of health services to provide more effective care through a
selective upgrading of the infrastructure and equipment of primary care and
institutional care facilities, and establishment of a new balance between
acute and chronic care; (c) strengthening of the management capacity of local
institutions to provide efficient services through the introduction of
management information systems (A/D information, accounting and monitoring of
drug utilization described in the previous sections); and (iv) improvement in



- 22 -
the management of expensive and scarce resources through joint materials and
technology management. The regional health promotion and primary care
programs of the project are costed under the national components. Experience
gained in the initial three project regions would be evaluated and used in
planning for establishment of similar health regions in other parts of Poland.
The Government of Switzerland is already preparing an investment of
SF10 million (US$13.8 million equivalent) in Silesia region based on the
regional health services concept.
2.22     Regional Management.  This subcomponent would strengthen the policy
making, planning, and evaluation capacity of regional health services. In a
clear departure from the previous centralized control over the operational
aspects of service delivery, the Government has decided to decentralize
responsibility and accountability for management of health care services in
Poland.ff/ This requires that senior management in three project regions
quickly develop a capacity to formulate regional policies to support a
coordinated decentralization of the health care system, design programs to
implement these policies and evaluate their effectiveness. Preparation of the
project has already successfully initiated the process of policy making and
planning by providing an incentive for several voivodships to regroup
themselves into three project regions.
2.23     Each region has already prepared statutes based on agreements reached
among participating voivodships. The statutes define: (a) consortium
membership; (b) content of membership agreements; and (c) main statutory
mechanisms. The mechanisms are the: (i) Supervisory Board assisted by
advisory committees; and (ii) Board of Directors assisted by management
offices. These statutes delineate the powers and responsibilities of the new
regional management. The Supervisory Board comprises leaders of the
participating voivodships, local parliamentarians, and representatives of
various community interests to help guide and provide broad endorsement for
the regional effort. The key element is the Board of Directors with its
management offices. Eventually, this board with an executive director will be
assisted by consortium wide management offices for planning and evaluation,
accounting and budgeting, human resources development, health promotion,
primary health care, materials management, technology management, and
pharmaceutical monitoring. The required upgrading of existing management
staff, the clustering of management offices and the phasing in which they are
implemented will differ for each region, depending on the size of the
consortium, degree of shared services envisioned, and the availability of
potential management staff in the participating voivodships.  To expedite the
start of the management offices, each region has established a Consortium
Coordination Office (CCO), consisting of a core group of four managers to
address the urgent planning and coordination issues arising from this
component and from the development within the region of other components
(hospital A/D, accounting, drug monitoring, etc.). It is envisaged that these
managers will become the core of the cluster of management offices
(see Organization Chart in Annex 1).
L/ See Government of Poland, Health Care Institutions Act, 1991.  All health
care units in the three regions, including units under MOH as well as
those operated by other ministries and enterprises, would be incorporated
into the new regional management structure.



23 -
2.24     The project would provide the technical assistance, training, and
equipment necessary to allow local policy makers and managers to further
develop the regional management structure over the next seven years. The
project would support ongoing development of regional health policies,
regional implementation of programs in priority areas (public health, primary
care, strategic plans for health care facilities, management information
systems and human resources development), and design of ongoing evaluation.
The project would provide a total of 292 staff months of technical assistance
to support project management and preparation of strategic plans and
operational proposals for consortia development. The project would also
provide 12 staff months of fellowships, 200 staff months of in-service
training of local staff, equipment and materials, and vehicles to the three
CCOs to facilitate project supervision.
2.25     Infrastructure Consolidation.  This subcomponent would support the
initial upgrading of the infrastructure and equipment of primary care and
institutional care facilities, and establishment of a new balance between
acute and chronic care. The project would provide civil works and equipment
based on a survey of physical resources within the three project regions
(completed in May 1991) and regional strategic plans for consolidating and
upgrading existing health facilities and medical equipment (to be completed
during the first year of the project). The consolidation of health facilities
under the project would rehabilitate about 50 percent of the acute care
infrastructure in the Wielskopolski and Pomerania consortia, and all of the
acute care facilities in the smaller Ciechanow consortium. Consolidation of
services would be based on 3.5 acute care beds per 1,000 population. The
health infrastructure masterplan developed for the three consortia would also
provide for the consolidation of chronic care beds at the rate of 1.5 beds per
1,000 population. However, the upgrading costs2/ of chronic care beds would
not be financed under the project. Guidelines for strategic plans were
drafted during project appraisal (see Annex 1, Attachment A). The phasing out
of the facilities identified for closure, upgrading of equipment, and
redeployment of the affected personnel and resources would be carried out
within three years of completion of the regional strategic plans. As an
incentive for the regions to undertake these changes, the project would
provide rehabilitation and upgrading of targeted hospital facilities and
clinics, and much needed medical equipment. Detailed engineering plans for
the civil works and equipment specification would be prepared by local
architectural/engineering firms after the regional management authorities have
completed their strategic plans. Both the strategic and detailed engineering
plans would include provisions for appropriate disposal of sanitary, medical,
and laboratory wastes. The project would provide for lump-sum contracts for
detailed engineering and construction supervision, civil works, and medical
equipment for the consolidated consortia facilities. The guidelines,
procedures and timetable to be used by the MOH to review the regional
strategic plan were finalized at negotiations. In addition, about 200 primary
care practices within the three consortia would be upgraded as part of the
infrastructure consolidation program (para 2.10).   A condition of
disbursement for the infrastructure consolidation subcomponents in each
2/ Upgrading costs for chronic care beds are estimated at about US$7,800 per
bed for buildings and US$11,100 per bed for equipment.



* 24 -
project region would be provision to the Bank of regional health services
strategic plans and investment proposals acceptable to the Bank.
2.26.    Admission Discharge (A/D) Information and Accounting (regional).
This subcomponent would support further regional design and implementation of
the admission and discharge (A/D) information and accounting systems described
earlier (para. 2.13). It would strengthen the management capacity of local
institutions by providing them with information systems to provide more
effective, efficient and higher quality services. The regional phase of their
design would adapt national standards to local needs in the three project
regions. The experience gained from introducing these systems in the three
project regions would be used during the fourth to seventh years of the
project when they would be implemented countrywide. The project would provide
a total of 66 staff months of technical assistance, 26 staff months of
fellowships, 48 staff months of in-service training of local staff, computer
hardware and software, and reference materials.
2.27     Pharmaceutical Monitoring System (regional).  This subcomponent would
support further regional design and implementation of the pharmaceutical
monitoring system described in earlier parts of the project (para. 2.15). The
regional phase of their design would adapt national standards to local needs
in the three project regions. The experience gained from introducing these
systems in the three project regions would be used during the later phase of
the project-when they would be implemented countrywide. The project would
provide a total of 67 staff months of technical assistance, 47 staff months of
fellowships, 47 staff months of in-service training of local staff, office
equipment, reference materials and computer hardware and software.
2.28     Materials and Technology Management.  This subcomponent would support
cost containment measures through systematic procurement, handling, storage
and utilization of expensive and scarce resources (materials, drugs,
equipment, linen and food) by groups of institutions within different areas of
the three project regions. Technical assistance and training would be
provided for managers to learn equipment and materials management techniques.
The project would support development of guidelines for technology and
materials standards. The project would provide a total of 78 staff months of
technical assistance, 36 staff months of fellowships, in-service training of
local staff, medical technology maintenance equipment and tools for 90 health
care institutions, reference materials, and computer hardware and software.
E. Environmental Considerations
2.29     The components of the project have been individually evaluated with
regard to their potential environmental impact. All components have been
placed in environmental Category "C" (not requiring environmental analysis)
with the exception of the Regional Health Services component, which has been
placed in Category "B" (requiring limited environmental analysis as per
O.D. 4.0). The designs adopted for project funded support for rehabilitation
of existing health facilities would comply with environmental design standards
which are acceptable to the Bank. Provisions would be made in the strategic
plans and detailed architectural plans for proper disposal of sanitary,
medical and laboratory wastes (para. 2.25).



- 25 .
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Costs
3.1          Summary  of  Proiect  Costs.    The  total  project  cost  is  estimated  at
about ZL3.3 trillion or US$227.0 million equivalent at the current exchange
rate (March 1992) of ZL13,360 to the U.S. dollar. Total contingencies
represent 24 percent of the base cost. Major cost categories are computer
hardware and software, technical assistance (fellowships, training and
specialist services), diagnostic and treatment equipment, and civil works
related to the consolidation of regional health physical facilities.
Incremental recurrent costs included in the project would arise mainly from:
(a) the operation and maintenance of computer systems, including the annual
licensing and upgrading of computer software; (b) maintenance of physical
facilities; and (c) limited additional staff. The estimated cost distribution
by project component is shown in Table 3.1. The summary of project cost
estimates by category appears in Table 3.2. Detailed cost estimates for each
project component are shown in Annex 2.
TAble 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT CCMPONENT
-  of     X
----Zloty billion-----    ------US$ Million----    Base   Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Costs  Exchange
Health Promotion
Health Promotion Program                     6.1       19.5    25.6      0.5      1.5      2.0       1S     75X
Training of Health Educators                19.6       49.3    61.9       1.5     3.7      5.2       31     711
Occupational Health                         _.0         2.9      3.9      0.1     L.2      L.        0       67X
Subtotal                  2.7        71.7    98.4      3        54      7.5       4X      72S
Primarv Health Care
Primary Care Practices                     204.1      190.6   394.7    15.1    14.3    29.6         161      48S
In-Service Training                         1.Z        86.1   117.3    _,         J.4      8.7       5S     74S
Subtotal                A2l.3         LZ Z 134    174    2.7    3.3l    31               A5
Health ,Manaaement
Hospital A/D Information & Accounting    30.1         154.3   184.4       2.3    11.5    13.8        8S      831
Pharmacoutical Monitoring                   60.0      275.0   335.0       4.5    20.6    25.1       142    86Z
Budgeting                                    1.7        4.9      6.6      0.1     0.4      0.5       01      801
Management Development                      15.1       56.2    71.3       1.1     4.2      5.3       3S      79X
Health Financing                             6      5 I.I7I   _0.5L_       4      1.1    _.         _1     I69
Subtotal                 1I.        508.0  8I1L9       8I    37.8    46.3
Resional Hcalth Services
Regional Management                            32.9      59.5    92.4       2.5      4.4     6.9       4X      641
Infrastructure Consolidation                 423.8      462.6   886.4    31.9    34.6    66.5         361      521
Hospital A/D Information & Accounting          32.8     106.0   138.8       2.5      7.9    10.4       61      761
Pharmaceutical Monitoring                      9.1       35.5    44.6       0.7     2.6      3.3       21      791
Technology/Materials Management                 5.9      _J39     45.4      0.4     3.0      .LI       ZX      in
Subtotal                 54.S      703.1  1207.6    38.0    52.j         M.      4        58X
TOTAL BASE COSTS                             879.5    1557.5  2437.0    66.2   116.4   182.6    1001           641
Physical Contingencies                      72.7      137.1   209.8       5.4    10.3    15.7        91      661
Price Contingencies                        14I9       232.5   382.4    11.2    17.5    HL           16S     gax
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         ,110.1    1927.1  3029.2    82.8   1442   227.0    124S            64S
Note:  Project costs include an estimated 10 percent, or US$6.1 million equivalent, for indirect taxes  on
locally procured services and civil works. Numbers may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 26 -
Table 3.2:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
I of        X
------Zloty Billion----    ------USS Million----           Base    Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total            Costs   Exchange
A.  Technical Assistance
Staot  Training                       121.6        30.4   152.0       9.1       2.3   11.4         8S         202
Fellowships                              0.0      214.2   214.2       0.0      16.0   16,0         9X        1002
Specialists                            73.0       170.3   243.3       5.5      12.7   18.2        10S         702
Program Development/Studies            _20 7       48.2    68.9       ..        3 6    _5.  1     _           71S
Sub-total Technical Assistance    115 4363.1   678.4    1J6                    34.6   50. 7         U         fl
B. Eauiment and Software
Equipment                              24.4       413.7   438.1       1.8      31.0   32.8        182         95S
Computer Systms                          0.0      336.7   336.7       0.0      25.2   25.2        142        100X
Proprietary Software/Books              Q0.       141.6   141 6        0       0  10 8   L. _0 6X
Sub-total Equipment and Software   244            f92.0   916.4       1. 8         a   so 68 6    3X9
C. Civil Works
Consolidation/Upgrading               4330.7       77.0   507.7       5&I         7i  38 5        I5
Sub-total Building Facilities         430.7        77.0   507L7    3L28                           au 7    3l
D. Incremental Recurrent Coats
Local Staff Salaries                    36.0        0.0    36.0       2.7       0.0    2.7          12         0S
Computer O&M                            72.8       72.8   145.6       5.4        5.4   10.8        6S         502
Equipment 08M                          68.7        51.2   119.9       5.1       3.8    8,9        5          43S
Building OUM                           26.0         1.4    27.4       1.9       0.1    2.0         1X          52
Non-salary Operational Costs           8.0          0.0      5.6      0 4       0 0    0 4         _S          OS
Sub-total Incr. Rec. Costs            209.1       1SL44 1S    .15 5             9-3   2l 8        1           38X
TOTAL _BSE COSTS                             879.5    1557.5  2437.0    66.2    116.4  182.6            1002         642
Physical Contingencies                      72.7      137.1   209.8        5.4      10.3   15.7         9S         662
Price Contingencies                        149j9      232.5   382.4    11.2         17.5   28 7        16X         61X
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         1102-1    .1V1  3029.2    82.8    144.2  227                124X         64S
Notes:  Project costs include an estimated 10 percent or USU6.1 million equivalent, for indirect taxes on
locally procured services and civil works.  Recurrent costs for local staff salaries refer only to
incremental costs. Numbers may not total excactly due to rounding.
Exchange rate: US$1 - 13,360 Zloty (March 1992).
3.2           Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project costs were estimated as follows:
(a)  Base Costs.  Base cost estimates are derived from:  (a) unit costs
for comparable technical assistance (TA) and services in the Poland
Employment Promotion and Services Project (Loan 3338-POL); (b) a
detailed survey conducted during preparation of the costs to
consolidate health facilities (buildings and equipment) in the three
project regions (Ciechanow, Pomerania, and Wielkopolski); and



- 27 -
(c) recent quotations from suppliers of computer equipment and
software. Consolidation costs of civil works are estimated at about
US$2,200 per bed. The cost of upgrading medical equipment in
consolidated clinics/hospitals is estimated at US$2,300 per bed.
(b)  Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency for
unforeseen physical additions (US$15.5 million) equal to 10 percent
of the estimated cost of each project item financed by the Bank.
The EC did not provide for such physical contingencies in its
financing of elements under the Primary Health Care component.
Annual rates of foreign price increases have been estimated at
3.9 percent in CY1992-1998. Average local price increases have been
estimated at 25 percent in CY1992, 10 percent in 1993, and
5.0 percent from 1994 through 1998. Because of the large
differential between the estimated foreign and local price increases,
the overall price increases for the project have been calculated on
the basis of the estimated foreign price escalation rates. This
approach is justifiable on the assumption that the policy of
adjusting the Zloty exchange rate to reflect the inflation
differential between Poland and its trading partners would continue.
The following calculation shows the effects on project cost estimates
in Zloty when applying the project local price increases to local and
foreign costs. The projected Zloty amount required during the
project implementation period is substantially increased.
Local     Foreign        Total
---- Zlotys Billion --------
Total Base Costs              879.5     1,557.7      2,437.0
Physical Contingencies         72.7       137.1        209.8
Price Contingencies           590.7     1,021.8      1,602.5
Total Proiect Cost          1,532.9     2,716.6      4,249.5
(c)  Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) consolidation/upgrading of physical
facilities--15 percent; (b) computer hardware and software (and
annual licensing/upgrading costs)--100 percent; (c) equipment--
91 percent; (d) specialist services--70 percent; (e) fellowships--
100 percent; and (f) incremental recurrent costs for the operation
and maintenance of physical facilities--5 percent for buildings and
50 percent for equipment. The resulting foreign exchange component
including contingencies is estimated at US$144.2 million, or about
64 percent of total project cost.
(d)  Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated
10 percent, or US$6.1 million equivalent, for indirect duties and
taxes on civil works and locally procured services. Technical
assistance and equipment and goods imported directly for the project
would be exempt from taxes and duties.



- 28 -
3.3       Incremental Recurrent Costs.  Project recurrent costs include only
incremental costs.  The total additional recurrent (base) costs would be about
US$24.8 million equivalent (US$32.6 million including contingencies) during
the seven year project period or 0.2 percent annual increase over the 1991
recurrent budget. In 1991, the health services budgets for the three project
regions were equivalent to US$29 million in Ciechanow, US$493 million in
Pomerania and US$870 million in Wielkopolski. Of the total recurrent cost,
about 80 percent would be incurred by the voivodships of the project regions,
and 20 percent would be incurred by the MOH. MOH would monitor the adequacy
of recurrent funds for maintenance and operation of facilities and newly
instituted programs, and advise the MOF of need for additional measures to be
taken.
B. Prolect Financing
3.4       The project would be financed by the Bank, the Government (central
government and the voivodships that constitute the three project regions) and,
on a parallel basis, by the EC. The proposed Bank loan of US$130.0 million
would finance 90 percent of the foreign exchange component of the project.
The EC has approved a grant of ECU 20.0 million (US$25.0 million equivalent)
which would finance 10 percent of it:he foreign cost and 13 percent of local
cost.  The Government would finar.ce about 31 percent of project costs
(US$72.0 million). Project financing would be in accordance with Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Govornment of Poland  European         Total
World Bank    MOH s/    Consortia    Community     Financing
Category of Expenditure   Amount  X  Amount  X   Amount   X   Amount   %   Amount     X
Technical Assistancs       479 79S    LQ 000   %    12 8  21X    60.7   100X
Staff Training           10.4 768    0.0  0%      0.0  0X    3.2  24%    13.6   100%
Fellowships              11.3 61X    0.0  0X      0.0  0X    7.2  392    18.5   1001
Specialists              20.1 91%    0.0  0X      0.0  0%    2.1  92    22.2   1001
Program Development/Studies   6.1 95%    0.0  0X  0.0  0%    0.3  5%       6.4   100%
Ecuilment and Software     ALI 9  0 0   0X       0       0   06           86.2   100X
Equipment/Computer Systems   68.8 94%    0.0  0%  0.0  0%    3.6  5%    72.9   100%
Software/Books/Copyrights    13.3 100%    0.0  0%  0.0  02    0.0  0%    13.3   1002
Civil Works                 0  0O    3t 9 82X      0.0  OX    8.6  18%    47.5   1002
Consolidation/Upgrading   0.0  0S   38.9 822      0.0  0X    8.6  18S    47.5   1002
Incremental Recurlrnt Cost  0.0  0X    6.5 20%    26.1  802    0.0  02    32.6   100%
Local Staff Salaries        0.0  02    1.3 452      1.6  55%    0.0  02      2.9   100%
Building/Equipment/Computer O&M  0.0  OX    3.2 122    24.5  882    0.0  02    27.7   1002
Non-salary Operational Costs    0 0  OX    2 0 1002  0. 0   OX    0 0   02X   2.0   100X
TOTAL FINANCING         DOA  57X   4S_9 _20      26 1  1ll    25 0  11%   227.0   100X
I/ Includes US$6.1 million in taxes and duties.
Note: Numbers may not total exactly due to rounding.



- 29 -
The Bank has approved a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance in the
amount of US$1.5 million to cover the cost of equipment and technical
assistance needed to equip the NPIU and CCOs and train key project staff for
timely project start-up. The PPF Advance enables the MOH to finalize
technical assistance agreements, prepare strategic plans for the consolidation
of consortia facilities and prepare equipment specifications and bidding
documents, and train key project staff. The PPF Advance would be refinanced
from loan proceeds upon loan effectiveness. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would ensure that: (a) in its budget, any
funds to be made available to the voivodships participating in the health
consortia under the project are treated as supplemental to the normal budget
allocation for any such voivodship; and (b) all voivodships and health
institutions participating in the health consortia will provide adequate funds
to cove'r the operating costs of the regional management structure.
C. Proiect Management and Implementation
3.5      The project's four components are interdependent.  About 51 percent
of the total investment is allocated to programs and activities implemented in
the three project regions. These regional activities would be carried out in
close coordination with tasks defined/executed at the national level. Project
management and implementation arrangements have been designed accordingly to:
(a) delegate decision making to the lowest appropriate levels to expedite
action; (b) develop managerial capacity at all sectoral levels; (c) develop
close collaboration among institutions within and outside the sector; and
(d) achieve economies of scale in procurement of goods and services. During
appraisal, the mission reviewed with the MOH a staffing plan for project
implementation, which includes staffing details and specifies the
responsibilities of line departments in MOH and of the national (NPIU) and
Consortia Coordination Offices (CCOs) to support implementation of the various
project components.
3.6      To support institutional strengthening at both the regional and
national levels, the project would finance the services of a project
management firm (194 staff months) to support and train NPIU and staff in the
management of multiple project tasks, procurement and contract administration,
accounting and program budgeting, and project performance evaluation. Staff
appointed for the NPIU and CCOs are skillful managers who have actively
participated in project design and in the formulation of strategies for
institutional reforms. Their extensive contact to date with external
technical assistance (see para. 1.32) will facilitate their further
collaboration and integration of technical assistance provided through the
project. Employment of consultants to assist with project management would be
a condition of effectiveness.
3.7      The following paragraphs, summarized in Chart 1 in Annex 3, define
the management and implementation responsibilities for each project component.
The terms of reference for technical assistance services are specified in the
Project Operations Manual (POM), which is available in the project file.



-30 -
3.8      Proiect Coordination and Procurement/Accounts Administration.
Project start-up and implementation would be facilitated by three CCOs and the
NPIU in the MOH (Annex 3). Overall responsibility for coordinating the
implementation of the project would rest with the NPIU. A full-time project
manager has been appointed. The NPIU would be staffed by a project manager
and 5-7 full-time technical and support staff who would have skills in
accounting, procurement, contract administration, preparation of reports, and
office coordination. The NPIU would be the principal liaison with the Bank
and other donors for project administration and supervision purposes, and
would facilitate procurement for the project. NPIU would not design or
implement programs and activities supported by the project, as this would be
the responsibility of MOH technical staff, the three project regions and the
other implementing institutions. However, NPIU would be responsible for:
(a) channeling information to, from and among key individuals and units in
Poland and in communication with the Bank; (b) channeling resources provided
centrally (e.g., proceeds of the World Bank loan, specially designated central
government funding and specialist services) to the project implementing
institutions and agencies; (c) consolidating/undertaking procurement of
selected equipment, limited civil works (for localities outside the three
project regions) and TA contract packages, where economies of scale and
efficiency are overriding considerations; (d) monitoring project costs and
project accounts; (e) monitoring performance of the regions and other project
implementing institutions; and (f) preparing consolidated periodic reports on
project implementation progress and the audits of accounts. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Borrower will maintain throughout the
project a NPIU with staffing, functions and authorities acceptable to the
Bank.
3.9      The CCOs would be responsible for:  (a) coordination of tasks and
monitoring of performance of consortium units; (b) administration of financial
resources to carry out project tasks in the consortium; (c) procurement of
equipment and technical assistance (TA) contract packages which cannot
appropriately be packaged for bulk procurement at the NPIU (national) level;
(d) procurement of consortium civil work contracts and supervision of their
implementation; (e) monitoring project accounts and costs; and (f) preparation
of periodic reports on the performance of consortium implementing units. The
CCO's management staff would comprise: (i) an accountant; (ii) procurement
officer; (iii) technical assistance/training officer; (iv) architect/engineer;
and (v) part-time lawyer. One of these professionals would be designated as
CCO Manager.
3.10     Health Promotion Component.  The newly created National Board for
Health Promotion (NBHP) and regional units for Health Promotion would be
responsible for the implementation of this component. NBHP would work in
close collaboration with the three project regions for the delivery of health
promotion programs at the regional level. The training of health educators
and other health and non-health professionals would be undertaken by the
School of Public Health at the University of Krakow, Institute of Occupational
Medicine in Lodz, National Institute of Hygiene and National Institute of
Cardiology. NBHP would work with the Institute of Occupational Medicine in
Lodz in developing policies, standards and activities related to occupational



- 31 -
health and safety. Procurement of equipment and technical assistance and
coordination of fellowships for this component would be undertaken by the NPIU
for the major consolidated packages and by CCOs for minor items.
3.11     Primary Health Care Component.  A Steering Committee for Primary Care
(SCPC) has been established to oversee initial implementation of this
component. The SCPC has a Secretariat which is being supported by long-term
faculty development of the three Regional Training Units (RTUs) for primary
care physicians. In the second year of the project, the SCPC would evolve
into the National Board for Primary Care. The CCOs would be responsible for
the procurement of equipment and works related to the upgrading and equipping
of primary care clinics and practices of physicians from the three regions who
are trained under the project. The NPIU would be responsible for procurement
of technical assistance for the entire component and of equipment and works of
practices supported by the project in areas outside the three project regions.
3.12     Health Management Component.  The NPIU would be responsible for the
procurement of all major equipment, software and technical assistance
requirements under this component. The Steering Committee for Information
Systems (SCIS) established in October 1991, with representation from each of
the project regions, would be responsible for coordinating the computerization
of the Hospital Admission/Discharge Information, Accounting, and
Pharmaceutical Monitoring subcomponents. Specific responsibilities would be
as follows:
(a)  Hospitnl Admission/Discharge (A/D) Information System.  The MOH
Department of Health Policy would be responsible for national
implementation of the A/D system based on the experience obtained in
the three project regions. The CCOs would be responsible for
ensuring that there is close coordination with the Steering Committee
for Information Systems to automate the systems in the project
regions.
(b)  Accounting.  The initial phase of implementation would use a modified
version of the existing chart of accounts developed by an accounting
task force during project preparation. This chart of accounts would
be used by the three project regions until a new, more advanced and
detailed standard chart of accounts has been developed. The Steering
Committee for Accounting would be responsible for developing the
national standard for accounting practices, as well as the design of
an education program needed for the implementation of this accounting
system. The Kopernika Voivodship Hospital in Lodz would be the
development site for the steering committee's work.
(c)  Pharmaceutical Monitoring and Drug Oualitv Control.  The Steering
Committee for Pharmaceutical Monitoring and the Drug Registration
Committee, working in close collaboration with the National Drug
Institute, would oversee the implementation of this subcomponent and
developing the monitoring system for drug utilization and
registration system for quality control. The CCOs would be
responsible for implementing the system in the consortia.



- 32 -
(d)  Budgeting.  The Steering Committee for Budget Planning (SCBP), would
be responsible for implementing this subcomponent. SCBP will
comprise representatives from the MOF, MOH Budget Department,
National Association of Economic Directors and research institutions.
(e)  Management Development.  The Steering Committee for Management
Development would oversee the implementation of this subcomponent.
(f)  Health Financing.  The Health Financing Task Force, in association
with the Institute of Labor and Social Affairs, would be responsible
for implementing this subcomponent.
3.13     Regional Health Services (Consortia).  The CCOs would oversee the
implementation of project subcomponents and programs in their respective
project regions. A National Consortia Development Group (NCDG), established
during preparation to facilitate development of this component, will continue
to support development of the regional management structure in the three
project regions as well as disseminate the project experience countrywide and
assist initiatives in other parts of the country. The NCDG comprises working
level staff of the MOH Health Policy Department. Specifically, for each
subcomponent:
(a)  Regional Management.  The CCOs would be principally responsible for
implementation of technical assistance and training, procurement of
equipment and development of facilities for the regional management
structure. Where there are economies of scale in meeting common
requirements of the regions, the NCDG and NPIU will continue to
provide support and coordination in procurement and implementation.
(b)  Infrastructure Development.  The NCDG would have responsibility for
the development of strategic planning guidelines. Working in close
collaboration with each CCO, NCDG would assure quality in preparation
of regional strategic plans and architectural pre-design plans.
Review and approval of each region's strategic plan would entail:
(i) peer review by regional health service managers in the other two
project regions; and (ii) technical review by the NCDG.
Subsequently, the CCOs would be responsible for carrying out
investment activities in each project region, including the tender,
award and administration of civil works consolidation contracts, and
medical equipment procurement and installation in consortia
facilities. The CCOs would also be responsible for upgrading of
primary care clinics and practices within the project regions
(para. 3.11). The NCDG and the CCOs would ensure that the equipment
procured and delivered to the consolidated facilities is in
accordance with the strategic plan requirements.
(c)  HosRital Admission/Discharge (A/D) Information System and Accounting.
Each CCO, working in close collaboration with SCIS, would be
responsible for establishing a hospital admission/discharge
information system, including staff training and installation of
computer equipment provided under the project, to a total of about 90
health care institutions in the three project regions. Each CCO, in



- 33 -
close collaboration with the SCIS, would be responsible for
implementing the automated accounting systems and would coordinate
implementation of the admission/discharge data set and pharmaceutical
monitoring system subcomponents that require accounting data. The
CCOs would also oversee staff training and installation of computer
equipment in about 90 health care institutions in the three project
regions.
(d) Eguipment and Materials Mianagement. Each CCO would be responsible
for introducing technology and materials management within the
project region.
D. Prolect Procurement Arrangements
3.14     The procurement arrangements under the project are summarized below
in Table 3.4. Specifically:
(a) Procurement of EguiDment. To the extent practicable, invitations for
bids on equipment would be grouped by the NPIU and CCOs in sizable
bid packages, so as to enhance competition and benefit from economy
of scale in bid prices. Contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$500,000 or more per contract/package, would be
procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. In the evaluation and
comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB, domestic
manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference of 15 percent,
or the relevant duty, whichever is lower, in accordance with
Appendix 2 of the Bank's Guidelines. Equipment procured through ICB
would account for about 78 percent of the total cost of Bank-financed
goods, or about 50 percent of the total loan amount. The remaining
22 percent of the equipment value would be in minor packages,
suitable for procurement methods other than ICB.
The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
(i)   Limited International Bidding (LIB).  Procurement of smaller
items of equipment and related parts and supplies that
practically cannot be grouped into bid packages larger than
US$500,000 but are estimated to cost more than US$200,000 per
contract/package, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million
equivalent, will be done following LIB-procedures in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines.
(ii)  International Shopping.  Contracts for equipment and furniture,
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract/package, not
to exceed an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million equivalent,
would be awarded under international shopping procedures, based
on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
eligible suppliers from at least two different countries.



- 34 -
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS &/
(US$ million)
Category of Expenditure                  ICB   LIB  LCB   OTHER         N/A    TOTAL
Technical Assistance,                                         47.9 hI 12.8 / 60.7
Training and Studies                                       (47.9)   (0.0)  (47.9)
Medical/Office Equipment,               64.8    1.5            3.0 Q/  3.6 f  72.9
Computer Hardware                    (64.8)  (1.5)          (2.5)   (0.0)  (68.8)
Computer Software, Books,                                     13.3 A/           13.3
AV/Training Materials                                      (13.3)            (13.3)
Civil Works - Upgrading &                             38.9              8.6 f  47.5
Consolidation of Health facilities                    (0.0)            (0.0)   (0.0)
Incremental Staffing                                                    2.9 g/  2.9
(0.0)   (0.0)
Building/Equipment Operation                                           27.7 a/ 27.7
& Maintenance/Supplies                                               (0.0)   (0.0)
Non-salary Operational Cost                                             2.0 n/  2.0
(0.0)   (0.0)
64.8    1.5  38.9   64.2    57.6   227.0
(64.8) (1.5)  (0.0) (63.7)   (0.0) (130.0)
j/ Figures in brackets are the onounts disbursed under the IBRD Loan.
k/ Procurement in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
J International shopping (aggregate - US$2.0 million), packages estimated at less than US$200,000 each
contract; prudent local shoppinc/off-the-shelf purchases less than US$50,000 each contract (aggregate -
US$0.5 million).
d/ Intellectual property purchased directly/negotiated with publishers and/or proprietors (aggregate -
US$13.3 million).
!/ Hiring of staff and procurement of supplies and non-salary items of expenditure financed by the
Government in accordance with local procedures.
/ Procurement in accordance with SC procedures.
Note: Numbers may not total xactly due to rounding.
(iii) Local Shopping.  Minor sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 equivalent, may
be procured through prudent local shopping by comparing prices
obtained from three different independent suppliers.
(iv)  Direct Contracting.  Contracts or purchases related to
intellectual properties, such as books, technical journals,
training materials, audio-visual materials, computer software
(including annual upgrading and licensing arrangements),
copyrights, translation and reprinting rights, and othel
proprietary items (estimated to cost about US$13.3 million
aggregate) would be procured either directly from the



- 35 -
publishers/copyright owners or their authorized distributors, or
on the basis of competitive price quotations solicited from
retailers/book vendors for discounts on retail list prices.
(v)  Civil Works.  Contracts for the consolidation/upgrading of
health facilities (US$38.9 million equivalent) are to be
financed from local resources and would be awarded to pre-
qualified civil works contractors on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement of civil works financed by the EC (US$8.6 million
equivalent) would be in accordance with EC procedures.
(vi) Locallv financed materials. local staff salaries and services
(a total of about US$32.6 million equivalent) would be procured
in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  Technical Assistance.  Qualified short-listed firms would be invited
to submit proposals for comprehensive packages of consultant services
and fellowships in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants. As needed, the services of individual specialists
would also be contracted. The qualifications and proposed contracts
for these individual specialists would be reviewed by the Bank prior
to the engagement of services.  All technical assistance services
would be procured in keeping with the terms of reference for such
services described in the POM and in keeping with the Schedule set
out in Annex 4.
3.15     Procurement Review.  The Bank would conduct a prior review of the
procurement documents for each package that is to be procured under ICB
procedures in accordance with paras 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Bank's
Guidelines. Prior review would thus cover more than two thirds of the total
value of Bank-financed contracts for goods and works. Other contracts would
be subject to post reviews in accordance with paras. 3 and 4 of said
Appendix 1.
3.16     For contracts to be awarded under the Technical Assistance category
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, the short
lists of firms/individuals to be invited, the proposed Terms of Reference, the
budget, text of the Letter of Invitation and the employment terms would be
subject to the Bank's prior review and approval.
3.17     Disbursements.  The loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of
seven and one-half years (Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring
Indicators--Annex 5, and Schedule of Disbursement--Annex 6).  The disbursement
profile for health sector projects in the Bank is about 8 1/2 to 9 years.  The
project is expected to disburse slowly during the first three quarters, mainly
for technical assistance and fellowships. It is expected that during the
third and fourth years of project implementation, the disbursement pace would
accelerate considerably with purchases of computer hardware and software
applications, and better the pace of the sector profile. Disbursements would
be completed after 30 quarters. The loan closing date would be June 30, 1999.
Disbursements would be made as follows:



- 36 -
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment, vehicles,
furniture, materials and software; 100 percent of local expenditure
(ex-factory) for locally manufactured goods; and 90 percent for other
goods procured locally; and
(b) 100 percent of expenditures for specialists, fellowships and
training, studies, and program development and evaluation.
3.18     Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$200,000 equivalent would be made against normal documentation. For
contracts below that level, disbursements would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), available for examination by Bank missions.
A condition of disbursement for the infrastructure consolidation subcomponents
in each project region would be provision to the Bank of regional health
services strategic plans and investment proposals acceptable to the Bank
(para. 2.25). One Special Account denominated in US Dollars would be
established in the National Bank of Poland, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The World Bank would make an initial deposit of
US$8.0 million. This amount is judged adequate to meet about four months of
expenditure under the project. The Special Account would be administered and
replenished in accordance with applicable Bank guidelines.
3.19     Proiect Account and Audits.  Project accounts, including the special
account, would be audited in accordance with the Bank "Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank"
(March 1982). The Bank would be provided within six months of the end of each
fiscal year of the Government, an audit report of such scope and detail as the
Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank, on disbursements against certified SOEs. The
separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal
applications.
E. Status of PreDaration
3.20     Proiect PreDaration.  At the time of negotiations (March 1992),
substantial project preparation had been accomplished which would permit an
expeditious start on implementation. The current status of preparatory
activities is as follows:
(a) Designation of Proiect Coordination and ImDlementation
Responsibilities. Implementing and coordinating responsibilities of
MOH institutional units and the participating project regions have
been defined, but MOH and the project regions lack personnel
experienced in project implementation. The principal officers and
support staff of the NPIU and CCOs have been appointed.



- 37 -
(b)  Regional Infrastructure Development.  The Government has promulgated
the Health Care Institutions Act which would decentralize
responsibility and accountability for provision of health care
services in Poland.  Three health consortia have been formed, and
each region has drafted an agreement that delineates the powers and
responsibilities of the new regional management structures. A survey
of health facilities, hospitals and clinics in the three
participating consortia was completed in May 1991. The survey
included preliminary assessments of the physical status of health
infrastructure and equipment, and analysis of consolidation/upgrading
costs. For the subsequent implementation phase, the services of an
architectural/engineering (A&E) firm would be needed to draft the
strategic plan for the consolidation of consortia facilities. With
the availability of the PPF (para. 3.4), the regions expect to have
proposals for the detailed A&E services by December 1992.
(c) Eguipment Lists/Bidding Documents. A preliminary list of diagnostic
and treatment equipment has been prepared as part of the facilities
survey. Computer hardware and software needs have also been defined.
Both types of equipment need to be consolidated and further detailed.
Invitations for proposals on technical assistance in medical
technology and computing technology will be invited in March 1992.
The services of these specialists will support preparation of bidding
documents.
(d)  Technical Assistance packages have been defined, and draft terms of
reference for TA have been prepared. A Project Operations Manual
(POM) is available in project files.
F. Project ReRorting. Evaluation and SuDervision
3.21     Reporting.  The NPIU and CCOs would prepare semi-annual descriptive
and financial reports (beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness) on each
project component, objective and activity describing: (a) current status;
(b) deviations, if any; and (c) reasons for deviations and corrective actions
being taken. Reporting and Bank supervision would focus on in-depth reviews
of the policy framework for sectoral improvements, the consistency of
activities for each component and subcomponent with agreements reached at
appraisal, performance of the implementing groups and institutions, assessment
of emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters, and possible follow-
up operations which could be supported by the Bank. The bases of Bank
supervision would be the semi-annual progress reports and the annual
evaluation of project activities by the MOH/NPIU. This would be supplemented
by a review of project expenditures and availability of financial resources,
in addition to substantive discussions with technical assistance groups
implementing/assisting in the implementation of various components, and
discussions with higher echelon officials of MOH. The Project Operations
Manual would also be used to assist supervision and reporting. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will prepare and



38 -
furnish to the Bank, by December 1 of each year, a technical and financial
report in a format acceptable to the Bank, and review with the Bank the
conclusion and recommendation of the report, including proposed budgets for
the KOH and the voivodships participating in the three project consortia, and
any measures that need to be taken during the subsequent year to ensure proper
execution of the project.
3.22     Interim Review/Evaluation.  In view of the pilot characteristics of
the project, its intended future expansion nationwide, and the need to
evaluate the success of regional management of health services, interim
reviews of the project would be conducted not later than December 31, 1994 and
December 31, 1996. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that it will carry out jointly with the Bank interim reviews of
project implementation not later than December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1996,
according to terms of reference prepared by the Government and furnished to
the Bank, in a format acceptable to the Bank, not later than September 30,
1994 and September 30, 1996, respectively. The interim reviews would serve
to: (a) determine implementation progress and ways to improve project
operations; (b) allow opportunity to effect changes in policy which may be
desirable based upon experience during the initial period, and effect mid-
course adjustments, if necessary, in project procedures: and (c) identify
possible follow-up operations for continuity in the Bank's involvement in the
sector. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998. Within
six months of the Loan Closing Date, MOH would prepare and forward to the Bank
its input for the Project Completion Report which would summarize project
performance and evaluate the project's outcomes and implementation experience.
3.23     SuDervision.  The project will require intensive supervision and
support in diverse technical areas. Approximately 20-25 person weeks on
average annually of Bank staff resources will be needed in the first two years
of implementation; Annex 8 provides an initial supervision plan. Bank staff
resources will need to be supplemented with technical specialists funded
through bilateral and multilateral cooperation as a continuation of support
provided through project preparation. In addition, the EC will provide four
person years of consultant services to supervise and coordinate the Primary
Care Program jointly funded by the EC and the Bank loan. Finally, the terms
of reference for the project management consulting firm also provide for
technical assistance to MOH to support project monitoring and evaluation.



- 39 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.1      Major benefits include increased orientation to prevention of health
problems, more accessible and effective primary care, more efficient and
professionally managed health services, reduced reliance on the state budget
for health care financing, and experienc6 in decentralization of health
services. Improved targeting of poor and vulnerable populations would be
achieved through better equipped and more highly trained family doctors. This
would also address fragmentation of primary care and reduce reliance on
enterprise-based services, thereby facilitating labor mobility. A reduction
in avoidable infant deaths could be expected. Improved accounting methods,
monitoring of drug prescriptions and sales, and professional hospital
management would all lead to efficiency gains and contribute to cost
containment. Regional restructuring of health services is expected to permit
greater involvement of the private sector in hospital support services such as
laundry, catering and maintenance. Development of training for primary care
physicians and nurses is also expected to foster high quality private
practices. The three project regions would contribute to sustainability of
the project through cost containment and improved efficiency by establishing
shared services in technology and materials management, planning and
evaluation. Once materials management is operating, up to 10% savings on
operating budgets could be achieved, and up to 5% savings are possible on both
investment and operating budgets with efficient equipment management. The
combined total savings from measures that address pharmaceutical consumption
and efficiency in hospitals could be as high as ZL3 trillion or 8 percent of
the total health care budget. These internal savings could be redirected
toward priorities such as health promotion, prevention and primary care.
Risks
4.2      There are two main risks.  The first is continuation of weak project
implementation capacity in MOH. Project implementation presents an
administrative challenge unprecedented in MOH, and the number of qualified
staff responsible for implementation needs to be increased. This risk is
compounded by the difficulty in attracting and maintaining staff with the
present public sector salaries. Management capacity at the regional level is
also a concern. To reduce this risk, technical assistance in project
management would be provided during project start-up and implementation. The
second risk is that continued uncontrolled rise in health expenditure and
further economic difficulty compromise financing and sustainability of health
services. Project design has been tightly focused on essential investments to
rationalize health expenditures and minimize incremental recurrent costs.
Management improvements and cost recovery to be implemented under the project
would yield substantial efficiency gains.



- 40 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
5.1      At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will:
(a) in its budget, ensure that any funds to be made available to the
voivodships participating in the health consortia under the project
are treated as supplemental to the voivodship's normal budget
allocation (para. 3.4);
(b) ensure that all voivodships and health care institutions
participating in the health consortia provide adequate funds to cover
the operating costs of the regional management structure (para. 3.4);
(c) maintain throughout the project a national project implementation
unit with staffing, functions and authorities acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.8);
(d) furnish an annual audit of expenditures six (6) months following the
end of each fiscal year (para. 3.19);
(e) prepare and furnish to the Bank, by December 1 of each year, a
technical and financial report in a format acceptable to the Bank,
and review with the Bank the conclusion and recommendation of the
report, including proposed budgets for the MOH and the voivodships
participating in the three project consortia, and any measures that
need to be taken during the subsequent year to ensure proper
execution of the project (para. 3.21); and
(f) carry out jointly with the Bank interim reviews of project
implementation not later than December 31, 1994 and December 31,
1996, according to terms of reference prepared by the Government and
furnished to the Bank, in a format acceptable to the Bank, not later
than September 30, 1994 and September 30, 1996, respectively
(para. 3.22).
5.2      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a) MOH issuance of the following regulations: (i) recommended minimum
data set for hospital patient admission/discharge information
(para. 2.13); (ii) accounting practices in health care institutions
(para. 2.14); and (iii) registration of drugs and a standard format
for drug prescriptions (para. 2.15); and
(b) employment of consultants to assist with project management
(para. 3.6).



- 41 -
5.3      A condition of disbursement for the infrastructure consolidation
subcomponents in each project region would be provision to the Bank of
regional health services strategic plans aad investment proposals acceptable
to the Bank (paras. 2.25 and 3.18).
Recommendation
5.4      Subject to the above, the proposed operation would provide a suitable
basis for a loan of US$130.0 million (equivalent) to the Government of the
Republic of Poland.



* 42                         Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DeveloDment of Regional Health Services (CONSORTIA)
Design and Development
1.       Regionalization provides a powerful impetus for achieving cooperation
between hospitals. The progression from stand-alone institutions toward
multiunit health care organizations and the concomitant introduction of
corporate management is probably one of the most significant and synergistic
developments that have reshaped the delivery of health care in the
industrialized world in the past 30 years. This development is based
primarily on hoped-for economies of scale, better access to the capital
market, and more expert management.
2.       In its attempt to decentralize the delivery and management of health
services, the Polish Government has opted for health consortia for the
development of its regional health care delivery systems. Why consortia? The
reorganization of health institutions into a consortium aims to harness
individual institutions into an organization that can guarantee greater
efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of health care and prevent
diseconomies of health care provision through independent and individually
administered institutions. Thus the strength of a regional level of
management is its ability to formulate strategies that implement national
policy, modified to suit the needs of its area of responsibility, while at the
same time being able to coordinate activities through developing a broader
perspective over and above smaller organizations.
3.       The benefits of a regionalized delivery of health care are economies
of scale, the better use of scarce resources, the ability to rationalize
services ard the ability to secure equity and equality of provision. Yet
these benefits can only be achieved if there is a strong interrelationship
between improved quality in primary care and better use of secondary care
facilities, integrated with a health promotion strategy that underpins the
major reform process.
4.       Various types of health consortia exist.  They differ according to
the degree of comprehensiveness of the combined services and the (regionwide)
extent and direction (vertical and/or horizontal) of integration. Health
consortia also differ according to the number and capacity of participating
institutions, the size of the populations being served, and whether the
consortium is based on a catchment area or a subscriber population. The legal
characteristics will differ among health consortia: (a) with respect to the
delegated legal statutes defining duties and rights, including the formal
relationships of the constituent members with the consortia and/or the
regional health authorities; (b) the parallel health services in the regions;



* 43 -Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
and (c) the national authorities, in particular MOH, Finance, Transport,
Environmental Protection, Public Works, and eventually national or regional
social insurance.
The Introduction of Health Consortia to Poland
5.       The Minister of Health established a task force to facilitate the
creation of pilot health consortia. A conference on health consortium was
held on February 28, 1991, for local government officers, voivodship doctors,
representatives of physicians chambers, trade union members and
representatives of the parliamentary committee on health. The conference was
preceded by the dissemination of information on health services integration to
these groups and by papers in the medical press. There were 200 participants.
Topics covered included models of health consortium, financing, integration of
medical and logistics services. Participants at the conference were invited
to submit pilot project proposals for the implementation of regional health
consortium, to be supported by a proposed World Bank loan. A deadline to
submit proposals was set for March 21, 1991. The selection criteria were
specified and these were:
(a) Project Content.
(i)   existing institutions forming the health consortium;
(ii) demonstration of ability to use available data;
(iii) establishment of strategic goals based on data analysis;
(iv) demonstration of innovative structures and solutions; and
(v)   anticipated results
(b) Availability of manpower and technical resources necessary for
project implementation.
(c) Experience in health services restructuring undertaken within the
previous year.
(d) Level of support and acceptance by potential partners of project
implementation.
(e) Feasibility of the proposed plan to develop a new health consortium.
(f) Financial sustainability in the absence of significant support from
the World Bank or other foreign aid.
6.       By the closing date in March 1991, the Ministry received twenty-one
project proposals. An evaluation committee was formed from among task force
leaders and the committee selected projects based on the above criteria.
Three proposals were selected with the final choice confirmed by the Minister
of Health. These included three regions: Wielkopolska (five voivodships);
Szczecin (three voivodships); and Ciechan6w (two voivodships).



- 44                            Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Assessment of Existing Physical Infrastructure in the Three Regions
7.       A survey, conducted in May 1991, showed that the health care
facilities in Poland have deteriorated to a stage where major consolidation
and upgrading will be required within the coming years.l/ Despite
differences in the consortias' economic and demographic structures, the
physical facilities and major equipment in the three consortia do not show any
significant differences in their present condition. A substantial number of
health care facilities are constructed more than 50 years ago, and generally
the functions of those buildings are inappropriate for a rational and
efficient hospital operation. Buildings constructed during the past 10-25
years are of low quality. Neglect of maintenance during the past 10 years due
to lack of funds will require substantial capital investment in buildings,
technical installations, and equipment within the near future if the present
level of health care services is to be maintained.
8.       The survey determined the frame of capital investment necessary to
consolidate and upgrade physical facilities and equipment. However, more
detailed strategic planning is needed to establish detailed investment plans,
implementation schedules, and work programs.  Criteria for the regional health
services (consortia) strategic planning were developed during the appraisal
mission (see Attachment A). The criteria were agreed at negotiations. It was
agreed that the Health Policy Department of the MOH jointly with the National
Consortia Development Group will coordinate the process for assessment of the
masterplans and proposed investments. The strategic planning studies will
determine how the capital investment will be used to improve the efficiency of
the system, such as the degree of upgrading and consolidation to be done, and
which elements of the health care system should be reorganized, expanded,
merged, closed or reequipped.
9.       The survey has shown that major upgrading and consolidation of
technical services such as heating, ventilation systems, water supply systems,
and electrical services will be required urgently. Minor investment in
building physical conditions is necessary to obtain a satisfactory hygienic
standard and an attractive working invironment for the staff.
1/ Capital investment requirement can be divided into: (a) consolidation,
and (b) upgrading. Consolidation is aimed at immediate reforms, and
includes urgent replacement of outdated or obsolete physical facilities,
or part thereof, and medical and nonmedical equipment that have
deteriorated to a stage at which basic functions cannot be carried out.
Thus, consolidation should be considered as the minimum investment
required in order to maintain the present level of health care services.
Upgrading is aimed at short-term reforms and includes upgrading of
physical facilities and replacement of equipment to improve the efficiency
of the existing health units. Upgrading does not include establishment of
new facilities or completion of facilities that have been planned or are
already under construction or major functional changes of the health care
units.



STRUCTURE OF THE CONSORTIUM MANAGEMEN
SUPERVISORY BOARD
#mfe of dv*nd)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
-    Dkedor)
PLANNING     BDWGETING                                    MAkTERIALS      HUMA                                       HEALTH
AND           AND        INFORMATION   LEGAL AFFAIRS      ADRE-SOURCES                PRIMARY      SECONDARY     PROMOTION
ELON          ACCOUNTING                                   EIPMENT    DVLOPMEE                          CARE           AND
MANAGEMENT                                                PREVENTION
Lsw:
H_ N sl _stahd care gtp m to Cansost  Coosdlknao Office
OQD
N 
0
ft



- 46 -tachment A
Page 1 of 3
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for Regional Strategic Plans
1.       The objective of regional strategic planning of health services is to
achieve a better fit between health needs and the use of resources. The
strategic plans for regional health services restructuring and infrastructure
development in Poland under the proposed project will need to address the
following key areas: (a) consolidation and rationalization of services;
(b) technical and design standards; and (c) human resources management. The
paragraphs below provide guidelines for development of plans in these three
areas.
Consolidation and Rationalization of Services
2.       HosDital Services.  To reduce pressure on short-term care facilities,
it will be necessary to plan for expansion of extended care beds for patient
assessment and rehabilitation. Nursing home facilities will need to be
developed. The regions' efforts to increase extended care beds, along with
the improvement in the quality of primary care, will lead to reduced capacity
or closure of some institutions now providing "acute' care. The plans should
be developed according to the following parameters:
(a) Acute care, short-term beds are to be provided at a ratio of 3.5
beds/l,000 population;
(b) Extended care beds are to be located closer to population areas than
at present and at a ratio of 1.5 beds/l,000 population.
(c) Redundant facilities are to be closed.
(d) Hospital units that produce a volume of care inefficient to ensure
the necessary proficiency of the providers and quality of procedures
are to be closed.
(e) Consolidation and upgrading of health facilities are to be undertaken
in a phased manner so as to minimize disruptions in delivery of
health services.
(f) Plans for upgrading of hospital equipment, in particular the location
and numbers of highly specialized and expensive equipment, are to
reflect the strategic plan for facilities consolidation.
3.       Primary Care Services.  The plans will need to provide for training
and retraining of doctors to accelerate the introduction of an effective
primary care service. Health centers will need to be established to screen



- 47 -                  At&Ament A
Page 2 of 3
and examine patients and offer treatment outside a hospital environment.
Procedures need to be developed for monitoring the efficiency and quality of
individual clinics.
4.       Rationalization of Iransport Services.  The ambulance services
provided by a multiplicity of agencies will need to be appraised. There will
need to be plans for introducing computerized scheduling of transport services
to address problems of inappropriate usage of existing vehicle fleets.
5.       Telecommunication.  Plans should be established for an appropriate
network of communications among health service providers within the region.
The network should incorporate both hospital and non-hospital services.
Technical and Design Standards
6.       An acceptance of the need for fewer beds will automatically improve
space areas in health facilities. Progress to a safer and better working
environment within hospitals is critical to better health services. The
strategic plans will therefore need to provide for:
(a) Space standards of not less than 60-70m2 per bed in general
hospitals, 90-100m2 per bed in teaching hospitals, and 30m2 per bed
in nursing wards as part of the space allowance for general or
teaching hospitals.
(b) Technical services, such as heating and ventilation systems,
distribution of fluid and gases, communications systems, and security
systems, at appropriate comfort levels (e.g., distribution of medical
gases on a local unit network instead of a hospital-wide distribution
system; natural ventilation with air conditioning in operating
rooms).
(c) Proper disposal of sanitary, medical, radioactive and laboratory
wastes and adherence to national norms for environmental and waste
disposal.
(d) Flexibility for future expansion and/or internal reallocation of
functions.
(e) Energy conservation measures.
(f) Establishing an effective patient care environment through provision
for adequate support care (e.g., intra-hospital patient transport,
wheel chairs), development of infection control guidelines.
(g) Accessibility for handicapped persons.



-48 -                   Attachment
Page 3 of 3
Human Resources Management
7.       Planning for human resource development will need to be an integral
part of health services restructuring to ensure appropriate participation and
commitment of all health sector staff. The regional management will therefore
need to incorporate the following into their strategic plans:
(a) establishment of a process for identifying future health care
staffing requirements and an effective personnel plan for the medium-
term (5 to 10 years);
(b) introduction of training and career development programs for all
groups of staff. Management development programs and professional
training schemes will be essential;
(c) a communications strategy to secure the commitment and motivation of
health sector staff; and
(d) provision for access of health sector staff to employment services
(including assistance with mass layoffs, if necessary) from local
employment agencies.



- 49 -                                            Anex 2
Page 1 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates (US$'000)
:*2Rwtsu,,..suaggsXs3iuuu.u ww,ls:*,S.t|sgs2.a,su.z,gs,.zl 1us:wswa a::gsazsus:g:33;SU Ttl* *tZIWSuh58huus3,8,3*.,,w:.s2*:3,wI:uzw8g
Twoe        Uni t                                             total         8Dm  Costs         Physical Conttnoencies   Escalated Costs
of          of              Descriotion of lnouts           Stv of  -----------.---------- ----    --                   .....................
Input       Intut                                             lnout   Local FortiOn Total   Local Foretqn Total   Local Foreign Total
A.  HEALTH PROMOTION
IIhSS32I38g2.I*S2223w8SE.IS,.ZBga, ...,assas.8g.s I....  
1. Health Promotion Prograes
:..........--------------------- . . . .............. .:......  .....
ST/HI. Cons   a/month  Tech Assessst/Curr Oev/Eval                   27      130    302    432         13      30     43      157    367    525
UL Consult   s/lonth  Progras Evaluation                             45       15      ;5      51        2       4      5       19      44      63
ST Follos    c/month  Hlth Curr Otv/Proo Evaluation                  12        0      96      96        0     10      10        0    114    114
Develooment I Spread  Health Survey                                           75    175    250          8     18      25       90    210    300
Developstnt 7 Spread  HP Progras Oeveloosent                                  15      35      SO        2      4       5       19      44      62
Computer      packaqe  PC Harduart/Peripherals                        5        0      25      25        0      3       3        O      :8      28
lCoopu 0OU     annual  0om  - Computer Hardware                                 8       8      15        1      1       2       10      10      19
EquiPsenc    PaCkaqe  Office Equipeent                                5        3      48      50        0      5       5        3      54      57
Equip G&I     annual  0OU  - Office Equiopent                                 18      12      30        2       1      ;       23      16      39
Equipment    package  AV EOveatIlsBoaro.3 req,l schl                  5       13    238    250          1     24      5       14    269    283 i
:Equip o0m     annual   OVI -  YV Ecuspeent                                   180     120    300       18      12      30      234    156    389
:Software      Package  looks/Technical journals                      35        0    350    350         0      35      *S        0    446    446
:Softyare      package  PC desktop publishing Softtare                10        0      12      12       0       1       1        0      11      15
Software      annual   PC Software license/uoqrade                             0       4       4        0      0       0                4 3     5
------.....--......... . ......_----------------- ---.-- ------------- ----  --.-- --- ---- ----- --------------- -   -----:
Subtotal  Health Promotion Proarass                             455   1460   1915 t    4l    146    191 t   509   !777   2345
:2. Training of Health Educators
:- - - - - - -   . .. ... ... .. ... ... ... .. ... ... ..
:ST/HL Cons   ilnonth  Organize annual wortsnoos                       7       34      78    112         3      8      !I       43    100    143
ST/HL Cons  2 Spread  Arch/Engg sirvices:upgrd Univ Krak                      8      18      :5        1              3 5      9      1.     ;0
l/T Fellow   sl/onth  HSc Public Health/HP I(O felIl                440        0   1760   1760          0    176    1?o         0   2165   21I5
:S/T Fellow   a/month  HP Prog/Nedialtour (50 fell)                  186        0   1488   1488         0    149    149          0   1825   1825
Train4ng     a/month  Vtshops HP Prog(l wkl:20 part                 30       72      18      90        7      2       9       9-      '5    117
Training      a/month  Nkshops SpI subio(l Wt750 part               376      902    226   11:8         90     23    113    1175    294   1468
18uildings   I Spread  UpgradingsUnnv Krakow trg facil    i                   213      38    250       21       4      25      255      45    300
:Build Otl   2 Spread  0111: Univ Krakow training fcil                         21       1      23        2      0       :       28       1     30
:Equipment   I Spread  Training Equipment: Univ Krakou                                 5 3 7  60        0       6       6        4      70     73
Equio 0&1   I Spread  Ois Univ Krakow training equip                         14      10      24        1       1      2       19      13    3i1
Salaries       /eonth  Nati HP Centeri 7 add staff                  546      109       0    109        11      0      11      140       0    140
Salaries      i/month  Consor HPt 2 add staff/Consor            i   468       94       0      94        9      0       9      120       0    120
:  -                   -*------*------:                :-~~~~~~---- --- ---- ------------------------------------------ -- -- --
Subtotal Training of Health Educators                          1470   3693   5162        147    369    516    1887   4557   6443
:~~~~~~~~~                                        ~ ~            ~          ~~~~~~~~~~            ~       ~ -- ----------:-------------------  . ..........
:3. Occupational Health
:ST/HL Cons   e/oonth  Occup health 116 ecoertsl                      15       70    162    232         7      16      23       81    190    271
LL Consult   a/month  OtCcuP/idust health ustetv                      22        7      17     25        1       2       2        9     20      28
:S/t Follow   8/oonth  Tours Occ hith plan/mgt/eval                    5        0      40     40        0       4       4        0     45      45
----- s- -- -  ---- - ----- -- --------            ---------  ----1-1-------  1-------------
Subtotal Training of Health Educators                             77    220    297         8      22      30      90    255 , 345
........ ....... -                                                                   ---



- 50-Ane
Page 2 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates (US$'000)
il          of               )ecr tl3          !g outs        :Q5V  .i.         -... -------------   ..........
Ieou:       haeut                                              : blost ; Local !uroiqo  fotul    FxI orei;n tot4i  -.ocal Fort:qo  iotal 
:69-9 .............       ..................               ...  S.............. ......... .........  t....                ...........
:5.  P815*0  EAo.TN CARE
:1. Pritarv Care Practices
ST/NI. Coosa   o *.th  POK  an# PCP                                      38 :   1o0      420      400       IS       42      00      215    502    717
LI Coaselt   */sth  Project Evaluationi                                  3         1       2       3        0        0       0        I        3       4
:SIT Poilow    etaith  Study tiars                                      13         0     104     104         0      10      10         0    120      120
SIT Folio*    msteso    Train.. ?CPs/PN   trainers                     260 1       0   2080   2080           0    208      208         0   2473   2473
;tEalntal      sheoath  Mkee.olpPC  "t,fIe&A.,4cil.1i.                   40       94       24     120       10        2      12      115      29    144
!Traais"      a/auth  Coatiwwao  edoatiha                              W 0     1920    480   2400         192      46     240      2394    500   2003
ttrai.inq      2 Sor4ad   8ksho: PK  CucrraCelse plawel                            Li 1     4      20         2       0       2        10       5      24
ilevelepeet I Srerad  8es,rt  Support                                        : 720    1480   2400            72     M4      240      024   2155    3079i
:111eelose..t t Soread  Publicatiuons                                              75     175    250          8      to      25        94     225     321
*Dvvsola.ot2 ISoread  Public Educaticon                                           ISO     350     S00        1,      Is      50      192    440       042
81a11dtn1   I Sore4sl Upqrado Matisetal PlC cuter                                213       38     250       "1        4      :s      250      44    204
:hilhd OS      OSperad  Vl4 CCoter OOl                                             24       1      25         2       o       3        31       2      133
:Cosoater      packs9e  PC Oareeare/PeriehArals                           5:       0       25     I'5        o        3       3               20      20
Momosga 4N    &aoal,   04t- Cso.eter oirdware                      :                4              13         I       1       I        8        s      173
1quipsmat   I Soread  NOC CtrotaficelilllIoo,cil "p                          3           102      170         1      14      17       to    183      10?1
:Esoip 05    I Spread  #PKI *ooiwast 040                           1               1       41     102        4        4      14       70      53     132
:Eouaaaat    pactsqe   ?rce.ing "muaps 5 iaude.ies                        5 :       5      95     100         1      10      10         a    112      116
1auuop 000       wm,ua    040 - traoinin  "uiS                                     30      20      50                 2       5       40       26      54
:Sof tar.      9ackaqo  PC Software: S acatealoos                         5        0        4       4        0        3       I        0        .1     7
:Software       auwfeal   PC Software lic"soeusqrade                                0       2       2        0        0       a        0        3       3
Softeare       wdkaqe  Audiovisual satlsi I acade.                       15        0    150       1SO        0      15       is        a    101      101
:Softwarep     paclage  SookslT.ch journals, S icaadn                    15:       0    300       300        0      30       30        0    392    382
Salaries       almenth  Steorseg Comes 110. staff                        21       Lb1       0      14        2       0        2       1a       0      lo
Salaries       .Ioath   Steerln4 Cmia   2 LL staff                 :     42:      14        0      14        2       0                lo       )      to
3alarieu       a/aoath  Nat Pris Ciro SrG:1 dirtetor                     40 :      8        0      60        7       0        7       80       0      09
3Salaries      seamts  Nat Prie. Care Ordil 41 staff                    ISO8     135        0    035        14        3      14      1"8        0    178
3alartes       a/lsoth  sat Pris Care artists add staff               0024       203        0    205        21       0       23      244       0    214
liser/Recurr I Spreso  SPOC noo-salary uper costs                            : 120          0     120        1.,      0      !2      154        O     154
EC Ftinanced Eleseetsi
:St/NI Coos   c/ccith  Devsacia eiitsltrq needs assets.                  41      "IS1   503       718        0       0               :.0     534     703
:SIT Fellos   ai"nith   Study tours/delloaswitso                       2122        0   1804    1804          0       0        1        0   1915   1915
;Traininq      as tlasM    Morkshohusc:v aM  team                       375 :2435         400    3044        0                      2  587    a47   3234
U   CosOet   alsath  Swsiqeofe FfacPiclities                       :      9q       2        4       a        0       0        0        2       0       8:
Sbevelopceest I Spread  Public Education                                          so3      Be    125         0       0       0        40      03     133
fStlccec11t I Spretod  Curriculum comfercoce                        :                      13      1t         0       0       0        4       14      28
Seveltoecet I boread   Sesoari  svoept                                         191         44      43        0       0       0        20      04      44
%jildsols       sa&ts    oeqradss9 of 300 PCP                           300     6 424    1134   7540         0       0        0    4824    1205   8031
.1asl  UN1    "sanaI   PC? buidiseg Sill                           :75                     30    405         0       0       0       771      41    812
1hillings   I Spread  tomsato 3 kcadecic facslitin,                :             479      84    543          0       0        0      50800  9 0 8S
!Build ON    t Soread  kacadic aldOeq O4ft                                        43       2      45        0        0       0       45        2      aS:
11"somat    skacla    KPC  eowsut                                    3300   1 19   3204   3375               0       0       0       170   3404   3355
iIga0 ipOf      &Mgal   844- PCP fqsjpauat                                       $ 10     540   1350          0       0       0     1007     725    18122
!Saf twre     t bpreed  Library & Info resourosa                                    0      38      38        0       0        0        0      40      40
Seibtotal Prissy  Care Practice.                                 1 :5280  14240  20544        404     414    1023   L7447   16362  3374
:2. le-Serntce Trai51n5
:STiI1. Cu.t  oa/cath  flaacsriurse aalcurr                               I        38      00    120          A       0      33       45    L0S    150
ILLC.ewlt   weasth  Pro,ct evaluation                                      3        I       2       3        0        0       0         i               4:
:Iraiseip      efaueth  PIIt staff training                             800     1920      480   2400       102       40    240    2477    010   3004
Wateare       I soreat  Oratleseg catersals                        ,         :     0       t0      10        0       I        1    !0         13      i3:
IC Puse.ced Ilecets.
'ITIIL CD      c/gUt   Pr"  8d515/kipt/qSt/iYal                    I    47      3UV    36       1230         5       0       4       392    914   1301 
lI/ Felios   a/math  stadvtcgwr llel,meuas                          1    74I        8     194     594        0        I       0        0    430      401I
151  P685ws  c/ath  taso-tra felleewaip                             I   s4I 1            438     43115       0        0       5        0   444    46401 1
Moasm,e       I 111oead   Caagtsw r Swdea fre/P      ga0s          I               0       13      13        0       0       0         0      is      IsI1
1Ipop0u ZhrassM 6I- Cccterw ds                                                      I       3    7           8    5    5               3    3    71
twintkai8a4eusa   raauieg                                            i 3? 4446    g77   194      so    254    291  64900   "ToI



- 51 -                                                Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estmates (US$'000)
;fhfnnnwsnnsne3"wwwwwnmnnn.. ltv.                                 -tbt-n..nf:tti.lfnusmhinwifwn.ifluhnnnswwtaltwl.flfl
TpoV       Lut                                                Total          las. Costs       Physical Cooteoesncoes   Eslcalted Costs
of          o               lescription of Inputs          MY Df  -----o--                -  -
lInwt       loput                                             Input   Local Feruin Total   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign total I
.  HEALTH RMA6ZEEHT
n...nn.fhw nfhn ..n.n.sa.n.nn. n.s a.nt.t
:1.  Hotltal AID inofrat:onlAccgunting (Nationall                        I
:ttlHE Cps 0 eOnmth  A/D  cCt IapagoiOt                               31S     149    34?    49t        IS      35      SO      179    4IT   S5   I
Lt.lH   Catn  aultjth  A/D ACct aoaenqnst                            n       313    730   1043         31     73    104       380    I81   12U 
U  Consivt   a/owtth  kcet .gtldosganlval                        1    11      121    22      403       12      21      40      145    339   4U4
Slt Follow   sleuth   AID, *ct uOunqottnt                             11        0     1 1     n         a       9       9        0    107    1071
TraiLtipg     alonth  10, kct s n^toong      t                      04      154     36    192        1s      4*    it        17       47    231
Moaputer       pWkaqc   ItOH Coop HaKri/Sotar                            1      0    350    350         0      35      35        0    390    390 1
CN  OM o a nual   00  Cosoutor systs OAR                                    1 l       S10  210        11      11     2.      u3      1       272
:ctOuter      packge  Vouvod: Coop Hard/Softsare                     38        0    53       3          0      4      54        0      47    447I
Cssou OM      anuaal   Voivd Ctoeutor  systto o0a                        I 110    11l    231           12     12      23      154    154    30  1
Moiouter      packaqe  Sall Koop: Cotop HorfISoftuars           i 212          o 0 flO    1903         0    191    191          0 2330   230
Cosau O      anofal   SaliHoos Cteoutor ontns CiII             1            38      305    7o            39 1        77      517    517   1034
oasoutir      paciage  HIdOiS Hoso: Coo Oafd/Softro               1 327        0   2941   2943         0    294    294          0   3579   357
Coops Gin lt tisl ISNeHoap Cosputer srst. OUt It10    00O  1220                                       01      Al    122       317    o17   143
ICoator        package  Pilot Larqe HKato  tard/Softero                2        0     13      IS        0       2       2        0      20     20
CuC 00GIN    osnual   Pilot LrgHoote Cut  sYst  U                       :L 5                  5  11     1      1       1        7       7      14
:Cteputor      pckage  Large Hosop  Coop Hard/Softart                 79             711    711         0      71      71        0    653     351
toueu OUt a0tnual    *rqg  Hosr: Cowp cytes 0 OU             1t                       154    309       15      15      31     200    200    412
E4ulliatt    pckaqe  RCH. Office (opeotant                          1           1     10      10        0       1       1        1      11     11
EgoioOUM    ataoeal   OAR - Office Ecupto       t                              4       2              0       0               5       3       I
Software      packaga  ItOHlookso:ckh journals                        71       0      i4      S4        0      3       I        0     107    10?
ISoftwore      packale  YOavol   boohs/Tech journols                 1 t        0    441    461         0      40      44 o            50    53 
Softure         4cila'e  Small Hosp:BoelTkTech jourialos             AA44       0    515    515         0      52      32        0    452      52
Software      package  Ao Hioii:a oks/Tlech jooraals             1029          0    313      23        0      12      82        0 1040   10401
Setwtre        package  Large Acs;slaeks/Tech journals               274        0    I       329        0      33      33        0     41     414 
S3alories,     also th  NOW  ecreetstatl Stoff                       672     134        0    14        13              is      171       0    171
Subtotal Hospital A/C lnforotion/klcoustng                  1  2250  11551  1I300        225   1155   1100    2100  14274  17180
12.  Phreascutioal  sonitarog                                    I
STIN    Cns * alenoth  Evaluation                               I     4       1t      4      44        2       4       0       24      54     33
MTIMI. Coos   ls th   Drug regullget                                 53      223    SIT    742         22     52      74      270    31    901 
IU  Cooselt   *I,istk  Drug reguwleuol                                59             207    295         9      21      30      107    250    3531
Sn Felilc   olalth  Dreg ""storing                                    11        0     I4      34        0       S       3        0    102    102
:Trainso       016.10   Drug  mtrog                                  21      70      17  r     2       71      if      U      353    213   10071
Coomptar       ackagle  ICm Coop NHrdlloftvore                        21       0   1100   1100         0    110    11           0   1270   12701
Coo" IUR       Gautt l    ItON   eute ro  steo U0lt                      I   J3O3    303    t00        30      30      01     39              792M
tonptter      pcttge   pilot hPl PhOr Coot  Hardisofty               U 1s      0    IU      I          0      1       14        0    17      17 1
tConsOu l eu     a      pl olt tbh Phar Cecp  stitno OU         I        1    47      47     IS        J       I       9        1      01    13i
:Ctptear       paclae  Potl Pors Coop Ou trSottUoare                 23         *   2993   2993         0    29    2"            0   330   35   1
:Cups CAR    aoo ual   Put POore Ceoputar systn  OU                      I *7              135        AS      d      135      902    902   11041
tCoeuater      pCttkag   Volvdi Cop Hard/Softsare                     n: 3      o 0   50    550         0      55      15        0    045    u45
Ceoos 0u      &Aal    Vying Coopter systeo tlU                  I        :   111    111    235         12     12      2C      1m7    1U7       l4 1
tCeopute       packaeo  Small Hospt Coop HardSoftmare                212I       0   m       222        0    223    225          0   2713   2713:
ICespsOlU      m ta   So/l/ to spCoter Cstae OM                  I             N4   t 449    399       45      43      90     003    003 u    101I
Cosapter      packae    oitto Keptj  Coo  kardlloftware    1         m327:         34      34          0    343       43        0   4175   417  I
:Cew   0011    aaNeul   HedHnoop cnotter Ietn an                         I   712    7i2   1424         iti t7   142           93    953   1907 1
ICapeter       pckagPe PUlt tLarge Htt:Cmoe Hardleft                   21       0     29      29        0       3       3        0      3      331
CpO4Ni W       aotal   Pilot Lrgl stC   ptetpttr sysO N                 I      I 9    9                I       1       2       11      11     23
tCapttr       package  Large Nasal Coop Hard/Softeas                 73e  ,    :  0   1    10          0    1O ?    107         0   1291   1211
:Co e OM        asal   LreH/osp Cooputer ntbe.t ON                           237    237    475        24      24      47      Sib    314    0   I
tmPnuat   I Spread  AOalytical messooot                                  I     40    700    100         4      7&     S0       47    694    941I
EMovi  0u    t Spread  OiI - Arnlpticol topi7ttt                :       "I   240    144    40to       24      U       40      317    211    52 JZ
Ellgopsont    pckage  Office   lipest                                   1       1     10      10        0       1       1        1     11      i1
lEgaioCN       aau   al   OAR - OfficE Eoaat                                    * It4  2       4        0       0       1                  J3 1
Software      packagqe  IIOJSoksllech joernals                      I         0    312    312         0      31    3U          0      01    401
Softare       package Pth  Pub   raile        t loorals            1030I       0   1o03    10          O    101    to           0   1355   135I
eSftware       package  Heovod:looehslech sourols                1   12t I      0    l 7     7          0      77      7 0n   9 9W             7 
3Sotaore       packagte  Sull  o IboealitTKIC  IWll              1       I441   0     44    444         0       4      04      '0     IU5    I1s
Softare       p llae  Hod 1be0:l0 tICK jtruals                     t02l        0 1029   1029u                 103    103        0 f 19    1299 I
.ltt ted"     paclae   Large Nl: eel/7Tec%  oroals                  2A         0     03     as t              49      09 u           3U2    U2:
Salarlie       gatk  lON ispreetal staff                        :   24      121      e       5       12       0      12      I0O       0    14  I
Salaries      e6nt.1    Veoed    croutal  Ualft                 1 2472       44       3    49 4        t 949                 449              49 1
Setoal thParoate,tical totoilo                              I  441l  2303 2507           449   209   20         54  25377  31ll1



-5 2 -Annex 2-
Page 4 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates (US$'000)
...................ISSSSSSS.SSStSuSSflflSS*S*SSUESSSSSS *$S*SI* mahwSSwwS..sn, , ss.ss zs.8s.e..st. .s5.ss.s.ss..                ..............     ...;
lose        Unit                                              . total          inse Costos        Pnysical Contunaocis   Esculte   Costs
of          of              Descriotosn of Inputs             0 of 0        ---- ------------                             .....................
lftut      lnout                                               Inwt   Local Foriqo fOtail  Local Foreign rOtal   Local Foreiqn Total
:C.  HEALTH  WhCEIIENT
:sw..w..fluuw.2 .        . .  ......... ...... ..........
:3. Soagtotn;
ST/IL Cons   s/ooth  Rt90urte  Illoc/elvl                               15        72     146     240        7      17      24       87    202    281
IU  Cosult   s/ooth  projtct oeVlation                                             3       t       9        0        1      1         3       6     11
ItlT Fellos   so/onth  Study tour                                        3         0       0      40        0       t       6        0       72     72
iTrainanq        /soo1 th  Local training: center stiff                  4        10       2      12        1       0       1        12       3      15
lCoeuter        paCkage  Suuee   Hardware package                         1        0       7       7        0        1       I        0       a       8
Cooou 0th    annual   060 - Servrl  aCkoae                                         '       2                0       0       '         3       3       S
Cosouter       packag   PC HardwareaPeripoarls                           4        0      20      20        0        :       2        0      '3      23
Coeo  0U       annul   0UI   Co wter HKroure                                      o              12         1       1       1        a       9      16
Equouent    package  Offtce Eiuipjent                                    I        1      10      10        0        1       1        1      11      11
Equ:1  021 K     nnual   06i - Office Eoulpeent                                    4       2       o        0       0        1        S               8'
:softear       Package  Serverl Software                                  1        0       1       1        0       0       0        0        1       1
Licenste        nnual   Serrerl Softvare licens/uggro 0                                  1       1        0        0                                I I 
loftware       package  PC Softuare                                      5        0       6       t        0        1                0       7       7
icense         annual   PC Software lacenseoqograe                                0       3       3        0        0      0                 3       3
Software       package  looks/tech journals                              7        0      70      70        0        7       7        0      89     99
Salaries       e/santh  Center staff: 4  oad stiff                    160        34       0      34        3       0       3        3        0     43
.___ __ ~~~~~~~~~.................    _                          ._._ ............ ... ___.. ._......... .........  .. . ..... .... ........ .....................
Subtotal Bufqetinq                                                 130     364    494 1        :3     o6      40:   17)   441    401
:-------.-............. . ..... . .............. . .................... ............ ------------------------------. ..... .......
:4. hanaqeent Osvelopoent
:571T   Cons   w,eonth  Canuaeeunt develoonwnt                          34       173    4aS      576       !7      4       s5      209    489    497
ILT/IL Cons   esonth   O qnagenmot dfeeloownt                           62      240      406    049        26      1    07        3!1    726   1037
:LL Consult   s/soth  Kanaqe#ent develooeent                           142        55     I2'     182        5      13      18       ?7    155    222
Llt Fellow   a/sooth  Long-tere fellosnlics                           464         0   1854   195S          0     184    lob          0   2320   2:20
1SJT Fellos   SoOnth  Short-tur. fllosslstudv tours                     *7        0    534      53o               54      54         0    645    645
Turaining     soooth  Local training                                    43       151      30     169       15       4      19      184      46    230
Eouiousnt    Package  Cowoutur lab 110 placesl                           I        2      43     4"                  a '       '              0
Esuio 0U0    annual   0IA -O fftce Eouioent                                      1'      10       4                     :           19      :      31
Cosouter       package  Seryer2A Hardware/Perinherls                     3        0      40      b0        0                a        0      71     71
CoCow  001    annual   04U  - Serrvo2R Iarduare                                  15      15      30        2        2       3       20      20     40
1cguip1ent    pactage  EoulotAlV/office/CD  Ron                         3         3      40      43        0       o       4        4      70      74
Equi 040 All     nIul   00 -O ffice Egaipemnt                                    19      13      32                  1    3        2:      17      42
Softvare       pac9uale  Pacaloots/Rlo  tls/CORos lit                   to        0    378      376        0      s3      I'         0    490    490
Mottsare        patlaoe  Sermvr2A Sftware                               I         0      39      36        0       4       4        0      44      44
Li.cose       annual   Server2R Software lic/upgrade                              0      13      13        0        1       1        0      17      17
1hilstngs   Z Soread  Refurbish faculitilqsl  cntrn                               51       9      40        S        1      t       40      11      71
haildOU    2I oread  Facilitin  0 N                                                       0                1       0       1        9       0       8
Salaries       s/sth   4 Stff   r center(l\                          n34         79       0      79        I       0       8       104       0    104i
'Ooe/rcturr I Spread   l-Salary oler costs I3 cntsl                             So00      0    300        30        0     30      '31        0    331
-~~ ~     ~~ .- .. .:  .....                            .............
Subtotal  anesqmnt  eloaent                                       1129   4204   5335 I   113         421    533 I  1343   5182   652t
:~~~~~~~~~~~ _..-.- ---------......  ...... .... _,  ..._ . .......... . .. .   .........___...........
:5. Health Fiwancinq
h1o1 loosnt I S#read  Health financing study                                    450   1050   1500         45    105    130        519   !:"    1732
:S/T Fellou   s/sooth  Health EconosicSInIlurance                       1:         0      96      94        0      1O      10        0    11    114
tE4aipent    packag   Office Egipsent                                     1        1      10      10        0        1       1        I     11      11
*EvupOM 0        avual  0C0I- Offlc  Eoulouent                     :               4       2       e        0       0        I        5       3      a
Cosouter       packaqe  PC Hlardu      Preeiueharais                     1        0       5                0        1       I    * ,
Co&l%    I    aut OaI        - Cospwter lardare                                  2       2       S        0        0      0         2       2       4
Software       eaclt Pc Software                                         I        0       1 o              0        0      0         0       I o
:L.ceess        as1l   PC SoTae a liceasruuqrage                                   0       1       1        0       0       0         0       1      1
tshtateil le tAl *1 lsferUt,aufcouotmiaio                          436   1144   1622 1    46    117    142 1   527   1352   1171



- 53 -                                                Annr 2
Page 5 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates (US$'000)
,,S,SSS Sfl3S3asaS33 ;s;.s..,S, 3S3SS SSflStSa    =.3SSS8.S..,   .,ash * awhts a.w ssz.:a.::zs w. * s * :sssznsawsss wsas.s:..;..;s :s.sssu,.:...
Type        Unit                                                Total           east Costs        Physical Contingencies   Escalated Costs
of          of              Ouscriotion of Inputs             OtY of   -----------------    -------------- ---- ---------------------
Input       Input                                               Input   Local Foroeqn total   Local Foreign Total   Local Fortign Total
: ....w8 8.w.w,wwwwu.w.wsw...tlst.:ss83uwu3ww3stass-.-..:w  RRSSU*E  338***X$S               Rw32,-Uasa  S*aSUaisagaw.aauw.wsa saaasSa..Ia..BuugUwUa
:0. RESIONAL HEALTH SERVICES
.1.  Regional inagesnt*:
1................-.- .............................
N ATIONAL PROJECT INPLEKENTATION UIIT
!STlHL Cons   s/ooth  Prep sestroplan/gudelines/stds                    50      240    560    800          24     5       80      285    666    951
ILt/HL Cons   a/sonth  Prolect esqtl4 snorts)                          194 1   815   1901   2716           81     190    27J       996   2323   3318
LL Consult   s/eonth  Proj evil/translation                             48       16      s8      54        2        4       S       20      48      63I
LL Consult   s/sonth  Coordinator: NPIU                                 84       28      ab      95        3        7       9       36      84    120
LL Consult   a/eonth  ML Tech: 05 for NPIU                             420        95    221      315        9      22      32      120    281    401
LL Consult   i/sonth  LL Tech: 14 for NPIU                         '   336        38      88     126        4       9      13       48    11:    160
S/T Fellow   o/sonth  Rasterplan devel/PIU visits                         3        0      24      24        0       2       2        0      28      28 1
Training        s/sooth  Consortia devil 150 Darticl                   200      480      120    600        46      12      60      554    139    693
ICosputer       package  PC Hrdurts6S for NPIU                            3        0      15      15        0       2       2        0      17      17
ICospu O&R     annual   OAR - Cosputer Hardwart                                    5       5       9        0       0       1        6       6      121
Software       package  PC Soft:Q3 for NPIU                              3        0       4       4        0       0       0         0       4       4
License        annual   PC Sottnar  license/upgrade                               0                        0       0       0         0       2
:Equipeont    package  Office eqp/furn: NPIU                              1    I1         10      10        0       1       1         1     IL      11
:Equip Oll    annual   OtR - Office EQuissent                                      4       2       6        0       0       1         5      3       8
Vehicles        unit    Vehicles: IPIU                                   I        1      19      20        0        2       2        1     22       23
IVeh OA         annual  Oca  - Vehicle                                             7       5      12        1       0       1        9       6      16
lRatertils   I Spread  laterials,supplies:NPIU                                    50       0      50        5       0       5       65       0      65
CONSORTIA COORDINATION OFFICES IWielskopolski. Pomerania, Ciecnanoel
L Consult   istwnth  Coordinator: I CCOs                               252      08       198    284         9      20      28      108    253    361
ILL Consult   Vsuonth  HL Tech, C5 for 3 CCOs                         1260      284      62     943 28             66      95      361    843   1204
LL Consult   */sonth  LL Tech: @4 for 3 CCOs                          1008      113    265    378          11      26      38      144    337    481
;S/T Fellow   s/eonth  Rasterplan devel/PIU visits                       9         0      72      72        0       7       7        0      83      831
Cosouter        package  PC Hrdurt:f3 for 3 CCOs                         9         0      45      45        0       5       5        0       1      51
ICoopu OCA      annual  ODi  - Cosputer Hardware                                  14      14      27        1       1       3       18      18      31
Software       package  PC Softt13 for 3 CCOs                            9        0      11      11        0        1       1        0      12      12
License        annual   PC Software license/upgrade                               0       5       5        0        0      0         0       6       6
lEQuopsent    package  Office eqp/furns 3 CCOs                            3        2      29      30        0       3       3        2      32      34
Equip OR       annual   Otl - Office Equipsent                    I              11       7      L8         I       1      2        14       9     23
Vehicles        unit    Vehicles: 3 CCOs                                 3        3      57      60        0       6       6         3     65      681
IVfhh OiR       a al   OAI - Vehicles                                             22      14      36        2       1       4       28      19      47
Raterisls   t Spread  Raterials,iupplises   3 CCOs                              151       0    151        15       0      15      194        0    194
U.                            -                                             :--                                        -----
Subtotal Regional Ninagesent                                      2462   4456   6918        246    446    692    3018   5476   8495
:                       :- ,......   .           ~           -                                            :



-54 -                                                  Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates (US$'000)
s..s.8u..a.h s..8*Ie.2                                             u.:.w.h.. sshhuu h.nu..u.us............a:
home        Unit                                              Total          last Costs        Phisical Contneqocies   EWcalited Costs
ot                                           at inooun ftv of  ----------------             - ---------------- D----- --------o .....------
Inwt        lnut                                            1 Iout   Local Forolga total   Local Foreiqn total   Local Foreign total
8531123818818131331838U282*88  1313183wgl$sw$gsgasls$ss                   hDS hISISIS hh*I8ala$888$SI  *SIIIIII*3638338U**II   IUI21IUUU8I|aEUIU*
:0. PEIONAL HEALTH SERVICES
a .s.ssusfg$sua.......sIshsu..hssZff...aS.*2.t3SiS.a#tS?....... 
2   Infrastructure Consolidation (Three Consortial
Wielhol selohi Consortia
*tldind s   I Spread  Consolid:502 Short-tore care facil                   11145   1947  13112    1115    197   1311   14590   2575  MI765
hald OAK   7 Soread  041 short-tere care facal                               5U1      30    590        54       3      59     746      40    lob
tisoquapnt   t Spread  Consolid:501 Short-tore care equti                     478  12874  13554         60   1289   1355       639  16864  17774
Eouip 0AN   2 Spread  0: short-tore care equip                              1789   1193   2982        179    119    290    2451    1634   4064
ualdings        units   Upgradte  Pris Cae Pract bldgs               117    24tU      439   2925       249      44    293    3237    571   3808
ikl  0d11    anual  0O611  Prio Care Pract hiUqs                              133       7    140        13       1     14      182      10    191 i
1E4ousoa nt    package  Upgradet Pris Care Pract equip               117       70   1334   1404          7    133    140        92   1742   1833
Equip OM     annual   0411 Pris Care Pract equip                            IS4    130    324         19      13      32     266    178    444
ItNI. Cons  2 Soroad  Arch/engiterionq services                               385    898   1083         38     90    128       499   1165   1844
: - - ....-.. - -- - -- - -- - -:
Subtotal  elaiskopolski                           17442  10873  36314    1744   1687   3631   22971  24799  47770
| -__----_---_------__--_--__---------_       ------ *--   *- --*--- - -s------ ------- ---- ---------------
Poetrania Consortia
- =- - ----------^--:                                              ::
:1u1idings   2 Spread  Consolid:507 Short-tore care facil                    4523   1151   7674       652      115    767    9539   1507  1OO46
hPuild 041    2 Soread  01: short-term care focil                            329      17    345        33       2     35      448      24    472
Eqoinent   2 Spread  Consolid:502 Short-tore care tauip                      397   7536   7933         40    754    793       520   9883  10403
:Equip 0IN   2 Spread  06i11  short-tore care euip                          1047    898   1745        lO5      70    175    1434    956   2390
Iluildings      units   Upgrade: Prim Care Pract bldgo                68    1445    255   1700         145     26    170    1675    331   2204
3uild 01      annual  O: Prim Care Pract  ldgqs                              8O       4      55        a       0      5      1u9       6    115
1EQuapment    pactage  Upgrade: Pris Care Pract euio                  68       41    775    816          4      78     8:       5L   1009   1o6l
Equip 0O1     annual   0411  Pris Care Pract equip                           118      79    197        12       8      :0      181    Loa 1     96
ULT/HL Cons  2 Spread  Arch/engineering services                              225    525    750         ::     52      75      292    681    972
.......... .o- --o-v--- .                 -v---*-                  :- - - -  ----- ---------- - --------------------------------------
Subtotal Posorsm                                  10204  1104l  21245    1020   1104   2124   13432  14502  27434
Citchanag Consortia
hl1oldings   2 Spread  Consolidil002 Short-term care ficill                 2940    519   3459        294      52    346    3849    679   4528
bhild OUI   t Spread   M: short-term care facil                              t14O             15e       15       1     14      202      11    213
1E4iuopst   t Soread  CensolidalOOl Short-totr care euip;                   1179   3397   1376          16    340    358       234   44))   4U6
Equip OU1   2 Spread  0611t short-term care   uip                        1 472    315    787           47      31     79      646    431   1077
lhildings       uaite   Uoprade: Prio Care Pract bldg                 15      sit      56    375        32      6      38      385      48    453
hld04 Os1    aual   o0: Prig Care Pract ilds                               1 31        2      33        3       0       3      41       2      43
1Eoitusent      wackage  Upgrades Prim Ciro Pract  tUip            i 15:        9    171    150          1     17      18       LI    209    220
Etw  011 A ual   UAt Prio Care Pract  qio                                      43      29      72        4      3       7       s8      39      97
ILTINL Cons  I Sptad  Srchitnmnoeranq servicn                               12    215    307             9     21      31      119    278    S9
Subtotal Ciechtao                               14233   4711   n944          423    471    894    5)47   6172  11711
Subtotal Infrastructuro Consolidation                         3178  34624  44502    3168   3462   6650   4194t9  45473  17423
:--------......-....         --..-.--....-...---...                       - I----. -----------          -----------------------------



- 55 -                                             Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates (US$'000)
Type        Unit                                              Total          lase Casts        Physical Contingencies   Escalated Costs
of          of              Description of Inputs           Oty of   ------------------ - --------- ---
Input       Input                                             Inout   Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Loctl Foreign Total
:D.  RE61ONAL HEALTH SERVICES
* ZSIUS,38a363333333au3suaul l .ula3agssga3lgwaaasssssuas
S3.  Hospital AID Inforsation/Accounting Iregionall)
- ..  _               .  ._  _.   .... ..  ..... .....                     .....
WSTHL Cons   a/month  A/l  Act  glt/eval/finan audit                  40      192    448    U40         I       45      64     239    559    7"  1
LL Consult    l/month   cct mgt/project eval                          26 1     39      91     130        4       9      13       46    113    IU:
:S/T Fellow   o/month  AID, kcct  anagment                            261       0    204    204          0      20      20        0    247    241
!Training       n/month  AID, Acct menagement                         46 I   114       29    143        11       3      14     139      35    173 
Computer       package  Regions Coop Hard/Software                    22        0      28      28        0       3       3        0      33     33 
Conou at"    dnual   Region Computer system  OA 0                               7       1     14         1      1       1        9       9  1 9 1.
Computer      pickaqe  Voivodt Como Hard/Software                     10        0    470    470         0      47      47        0    570    570I
Coeou O1R    annual   Voavod Computer system  0ill                            99      99    197        10      10      20      132    132    264
Computer      package  Sall Hosp: Coop Hard/Softatre                 3:         0   1768   1766         0    177    177          0   2160   2160
*CaNpu OU     annual   Sol/Hasp Cooputer system  0U1                         356    356    712         34      36      71     478    478    955I
Computer      package  Redium Hasp: Coop Hard/Softuare                21        0   149l   1491         0    149    149          0   1620   16201
*Cooou Oa"    annual   Ned/Hoso Computer system  011                         302    302    404         30      30      60     405    405    610
Computer      package  Pilot Lrge HaspComp Hard/Software           I1           0     84      84        0       s       a        0      95      95
*Coopu OAR    annual   Pilot Lrg Hosps Coop syst OAR                           25      :5      50        3       3       5       33     33      A5l
Computer      packIge  Large Hasp: Camp Hard/Software                 l8        0   1512   1512         0    151    151          0   1845   1645
.Cooou OAR    annual   Lrg/Hoso Commuter systes OAR 0                         307    307    613         31      31      a1     411    411    822
:Software      package  Regaon:Iaoko/Tmch journals                    l8        0      43      43        0       4       4        0     16      56
Software      package  Voivod:Iooks/Tech journals                    32        0    115    115          0      12      12        0    146    1461
Software       package  Smll HNpslooks/Tech journals                115         0    230    230         0      23      23        0    291    2911
Software      package  Red Hospilooks/Tmch journals                  721       0    144    144          0      14      14        0    162    182
Software      package  Large Hosp:Iooks/Tech journals                60         0    150    180         0      to      le        0    227    227
Salaries      o/month  Regional staff                              1728      346       0    34I        35       0      35        0       0       0
SalAries      i/month  Vaivod staff                                 3121    62         0      62        6       0       4        0       0       0
Salaries      el/onth  Staff: Sall hospital                        1152 1   230        0    230        23       0      23        0       0      0
Salarles      i/month  Staff: Redium holsptal                   1   720 1   144         0    144       14       0      14        0       0      0
Salaries      c/sonth  Staff: Large hospital                       1176      235       0    23S        24       0      24        0       0       0
........                                         .                         .       .....      ....    ..... .....          ......      ..   -
Subtotal Hospital A/0 Inforeation/Accounting                    2458   7932  10390       246    793   1039    1894   9846  11740 I
:~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                     . . --. -.- .--  ..---:---- - .-- .......   -.-.-.



- 56-                                                  Annx 2
Page 8 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates (US$'000)
, ............................................................ ..................................................................... 2 
Type        Unit                                              Total          lls Costs        Physical Contigtaces   Escalated Costs
of               of              Qscriotion of Inouts            Mty of  --.------------------- *- --------               --------.-------------.
Input       Inwut                                              tnlout   Local Foreign Totai   Local  foroign Total   Local Foreign Total
O0.  OIIIWIAL WALTH ItlVICES
: .-stoggsta s ..............  ssa*s*aa.                   ..a,
:4. Pharmaceutical Noitorusq Irigionall
:,,,,,,,,,................. ........ . .. .   .. .. _ . .. .
:STINL Cons   o/simth  krq RAqI/goUontMal                       I    36       112    426    606       1       43      it      229    533    762
ILL Cuuslt   o/euth   Srq ReIul/oot/oevl                              2 29     10     23      33        1       2       3       12     29      41
:SIT Folleo   slth  ir"   matetrianq                                  0477      0    372    372         0      37      37        0    452    452:
ITromaiml      o/eth  Ing oitorirq                                    4 4I   114      29    143        11       3      14      139     35    1735
Cooputer      pochaq*  t opIsi Cp Hard/Softear                  :     3        0      42     42        0       4       4        0      49     49
1CoHo Ol    aual RI qso. Coepoter sosteo 01                   I              11     11      21        1       1       2       14     14      2S:
Coaputer       package  Vosvods Coop HardiSoftuare                    10:       0    141    141         0      14      14        0    il      171i
:Co.w  011    annual   Voivod Cosgater systu 0iH                               30     30      59        5       3       6       40     40      79
Cowuter         ckage  Suall teosp  Cuo Hard/Softuare           1    3         0    323    323         0      32      32        0    395    39
CoMo  0611    aual   Sol/Nosv  Coobetr syst   0611 N65                                65    130        7       7      Is       67      67    174
tCodouter      pkate  Pilot NWd  nosteCo Hard/Softwaro                 21       0     17      17        0       2       2        0      19     It
:Coo   Wl aU N    ull   pilot dN  Hlop: Cooostsst 0                I            5      5      10        I       I       1        7       7     13
Cospoter      package    digu  Hps: Coop Hard/feftoaro               21:       0    179    179         0      16      16        0    218    216
Coso  011    annual   Ile/Hoeo Coowtur  sto. 061H                              36     36      72        4       4       7       46     46      97
:C0ooutar      bachage  Pilot Lrqo hosoiCoao Nard/Softuro              I        0     13      1I        0       1       1        0     14      14
:Coou 061      annual   Pilot Lrq H9sp: Coop system  0ih                        4      4       8        0       0       1        5       5     10
ICoasator      packaqo  Large Hopot Coop Hard/Softwoar               l1         0    227    227         0      23      23        0    277    277
Coou 0U6      mual    Lrq/Hovo Cospotor systOs 0UI                            46     46      92        5       5       9       62      62    123
Equioannt    packagq  Office 14p: Ro"Ionl OffiCe                :      3        2     29      s0        0       3       3        2     34      i5
:EQUiP 011     Annual   0ih - office Equipnont                                  9      6      IS        I       1       2       12      S      20
Softuare      packago  ReplonoBsoo/Toch journals                     It        0    106    106         0      11      11        0    140    140
Softor.       paokagqo  veoivod:ookslTlch journals                   32        0    192    192         0      19      19        0    243    243
Softoaro      package  Stall  bosp:books/Tech journals              115        S     1        S 115    0      12      12        0    145    145
Soeftsar.     package  11d Hostpoks/Tech journals                    74        0      74     74        0       1       7        0     93      95
:Software     oachge  Large Ho spokhs/Toch  ournals                  60        0    150    150         0      15      15        0    169    159
Salaris       o/senth  Rgional staff                            I    64       17       0      17       2       0       2      924       0    924
Salaries      V  enth   ivoaed staff                                744      L49       0    149       15       0      1         0       0      0
Suthotal Phareacootical Oonitort ng Irogionall                 167    2659   35 6S                  266    334    1560   3307   4667
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .:... ..      . ..........
:5.  NatetraIs/tochnoloy  anagoennt
:StItL Cons   e/ath  Equioltochno/atls sanagot                        12      5    134    192          0      13      19       70    163    234
LL Consvlt   o/aati  Eqgiptochno/outlos eanagoot                     66       22      52      74       2       5       7       27      63     91
t/t Follow   sle th   Stoh  tnuro 1041sEgpoatlo  got                  3         0    266    266         0      29      29        0    350    350
:Training m     q proad  Rater7als/loch oegt                                   12      3      15        I       0       2       15      4      I1
ICoutor        wackae  Sorver2bl@  pilot hoe  ctnter                  Il        0    220    220         0      22     22        0    249    249
Coom 0i1      aual  01 - Cooptor Haretaro                                    66     66    132         7       7      13       86 S    6     171
1CoHWer        pk4ag   PC h rdare: (10 lilot hospl                    10        0     50      50        0       5       S       0      57      57
iCooO UN aUI      ual    0IN   Ce   torHNvduaro                                1      is      30        2       2       3      19      19      391
ICoutor        pckaqe  PC Hardw/Pfrill IS0 hop)                       *0        0     40     400        0      40      40        0    40    4W:
CHoan         a nAal  0O    - Coutr Harduare                    i        i     0     90   1t0          9       9      Is      120    120    240
ivoicloo       package  ltatuco n       ebictloo 110 hosol            10       20    360    400         2      36      40      23    430    453
Movop 0M      ana    01   Na*latosance  ehileis                 1144                  96    240       14      10      24      167    125    311
Equagant    pckage Officef guapont                                    4        2      36      40       0       4       4        2      43     41
EQip 0111 aD n    ual   0611 C - Offic  E nposHt                           I14        10     24        1       1       2       19      12     31
Softuare      packag E uipsant uaqot  0ftuno                         91:       0    137    137         0      14      14        0    163    163
!License       amal   Software lc"uco./ugradf                                   0     45      45        0       4       4        0     59      5t
Softoaru    pCacage  1atoerials saagot  eoftare                      SI        0      12      12       0       1       1        O      LS     IS
Licnsu        annal   Softuare licnseopgra e                             1     0       3      3        0       0       0        0      4       4
Software      package  PC Sefttare                                   91        0    109    109         0      11      11        0    130    130
Licenue        a"uAl   PC Softvar. lIcoatulograedo                              0     34      36        0       4       4       0      47      47
saftre r        ckage g   ooks/Tech journals                         77        0    770    770         0      77      77        0    91    9681i
i -            -- - -:                                                   :    - 4--    --I9-4--0------:
letotal hatofsals/Tschlogy baaoet                               UJ144    2954   3397      44    295    340       503   3601   4I16 



-57-                            Annex 3
Page I of 2
POLAND
Implementation Arrangements for
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Proposed for World Bank Support)
REGIONAL
supervisory
Supervisor               Supevisory                Board of
Board ot                 Bpoard o
CIECHANOW                POMERANIA                 WIELKO-
CONSORTIUM               CONSORTIUM               CONSORTIUM
Consortla                Consortia                Consoa
Coordination             Coordinatlon             Coordination
Office                   Office                   Office
* COMMITTEES            * COMMITTEES             * COMMITTEES
* TASK FORCES           * TASK FORCES            * TASK FORCES
NATIONAL                                t
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
NATIONAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
UNIT
* NATIONAL CONSORTIA
DEVELOPMENT GROUP
* PROJECT TASK FORCES
* STEERING COMMITTEES
* M.O.H. INSTITUTES
AND LINE DEPARTMENTS
sads\w50391 a



Annex  3
- 58 -                                     Chart 1
Page I of 2
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Programs Technical Assistance Reguirements
Policy Setting
Part of the Project          Responsible Line              Monitoring               Implumenting Agencies
Department of MDR         Reviowing Progrem
Part A.                      Dept. of Public Health   Steering Comomittee for HP   Regional BP Units
Health Promotion (HP)                                                             School of PH Krakow
Nat. Inst. of Hygione
Dept. of Health Policy   National Board for HP        Nat. Inst. of Occupt. Mod.
Inst. of CardioLogy
Pert B.                      Dept. of Research and    Steering Committee for PC   Training Centres associated
Primary Care (PC)          Higher Education                                       with:
- Pomerania region
Dept. of Health Policy   National Board for PC          - Wielkopolski region
Core                           - Ciechanow region
Part Cl.                     Dept. of Health Policy   Steering Committee for        Rogional Health Care Inst.
Admission/                                           Info. System - A/D MDS
Discharge MDS
-----------------------  ----------------------  -------------------------  --------------------------~~~~~~--------------------- 1
Accounting                  Dept. of Economics       Steering Commitee for        Regional Health Care Inst.
Arcounting
Part C2.                     Dept. of Pharmacy         Steering Comittee for        Regional Health Care Inst.
Phamon    utical                                     Pharncoutical Moitoring
Monitoring    and           ----------------------   -------------------------    --------------------------
Drug Registration           Dept. of Pharmaey        Drug Registration            Drug Institute
Cciittee
Part C3. Budgeting           Dept. of Economics        Steering Co  itco for        Ministry of Health
______________________   Budget Planning
Dept. of Investment
Part C4.                      Dept. of Research end    Steering Comittee for        Academic Centres in:
Management Development      Higher Education         Management Devolopment         - Wroclaw
- Lodz
- Warsaw
- Krakow
Part C5.                     Dopartment of Research   Health Finaneing Task         Institute of Labor and
Health Financing            and Higher Education       Force                      Social Affairs
Pert D.                      Ministry of Health
Consortia                     - Legal Department     Consortia Dav. Group         Consortia Coordination
- Policy Department                                Office
- Economic
______________________t    pa tment



- 59 -                                          Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Summary by Project Component
-   -   -- -- -- -- -    - -- -     - -- -- - ---   -       --    -- - ---- --  - --   - --- - -- --   --- - -- -- -- --:    - --    -- ---- - ..
Role            Schedule of Availability/Activitv
FIELD OF EIFERTISE                               of      ------     --  -------             ---    ------                    REMARKS               finn-
I                                                                 I Exoert   Cu1992 CY199 :CY9"41CY199S C096:CYI",7:C0199":TOTAL                                        I cier
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REOUIREMENTS (staft-sonthsl )
wafssflhSeSfl*3*3S*SZSfSStS ES flZflSfl"
Soecialist Services                                                               I
1225.5 :414.0 1315.5 :231.0   90.0   35.0   41.0  1352.01
t                 per Year as I of total                                      I 16.7%: 30.63: 23.331  17.11   6.7V:  2.61U  3.01S   100.01
of shich IERD financed                             1188.0 362.5  N85.3 1210.0  190.0   35.0   41.0 11232.0                                  I 11DR
of which EC financed                                37.5  13.5  30.0   21.0                         :     120.0                                 EC
Ftllowshios/Studv Tours
I                 -----------------                                           :3c6.0 :717.0 1691.5 1491.0 1157.0   21.0            12443.5
per year as I of total                                     I1.0: 29.331 28.31%  20.1S1   6.431   0.921         .100.011 
of which IERO financed                             150.0 1421.0 1493.0 1366.0 :157.0   21.0 .          11608.0                               : IPRD
of which EC financed                               :21.0  29b.0  19 .5   15.0                            835.5                                 EC
I HEALTH PRONOItON1
Consultant/Soecialist Services:
I Inforsation technolo;v assessment                             Lead solst: 1.0                                                     1 .0                               IEFD
2 Health curriculus develooment/evaluation                      Lead solst   3.0    9.0    2.0    2.0    1.0    1.0    1 .0    19.0                                  110D
3 Halth Prosotion orooras eviluation                           :Lead solst: 2.0    2.0    1.0               1.0         ! 1.0       7.0                               1ISRO
4 Health Prosotion oroqras evaluation                          :Assoc          .0   12 .0   12.0   12.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    45.0                                  1 6RD
5* Oraniation of annual HP  orkishoos                          :Lead solst    1.0        1.0 1  0 1 1.0   1  0    1.0    1 .0       7.0                               1IRO
6Occuoational medicine                                        :Lead slist        : 1.3                                             1.3 15 soecialists                I1RO
7  teveloo Occupational health safety frasework                :Leid salst:          6.3 16.3  2 soecialists                                                          I102
S Develon Occupational health safety framelwork                 Assoc         3.0                                                   3.0 :2 soecialists                 IERO
9 Develop inspection/enforcesent standards/frasewori           :Lead solst: 2.0                                                     2.0 :2 soec;ilists                IE1D
1 10 Develoo instection/enforcement standards/framework            Assoc        o6.0                                                   6.0 o 4 soecialists                180O
11 Industrial sector health safety                              *Lead solst:  1.0I   4.0                                             5.014 soectilists                 I 1kD
: 12 Industrial sector health safety                              'Assoc         1.0    4.0                                            5.0                                  R 1U0
13 Identify personnel availab!iity/preo training preorams  Lead solstl  4.    4.0                                                    8.0                                16RO
Subtotal Consultant Services                                 27.0   43.5  16.0   15.0    5.0    4.0    5.0   111.5 5
Felloeishoos/Studv Tours:
tI Helth curriculum develoosent/evaluation                     :Foreign       3.0    6.0            3.0                            12.0                                1BR1
1  2 letric HP progroas                                           .Fortign      12.0   20.0   20.01 20.0   20.0                       92.0 146 oarticioants        '     16RD
I    ISc Public Health/Health Promotion                           Foreign      24.0 1100.0  148.0  126.0   42.0                   O440.0  20 candidates                  IERD
:4 Health Promotion media training                                :Foreiqn   1 4.0   20.0   34.0   24.0    6.0                       R880 14 particisonts                I  0iRD
:  5Study tour:Health Promotion programs                          'Foreinn       t 6.0                                                 6.0 16 university staff            IIRD
:  6Study tour:planning/management/eval occupational healthWForeign              5.0                                                   5.0                                IERD 
Subtotal Fellowships/Study tours                             54.0 1146.0 1202.0 1173.0   68.0                     643.0



- 60 -Annex 4
Page 2 of 6
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Summary by Project Component
------------------ ---                                         -----  ------------------ -------  - -------  ---...
Role            Schedule of AvailabilitviActivitv
FIELD OF EXPERTISE                               of    i------i -----a-----            ---            - ---- -- -            REMARKS              lFinan-1
I                                                                    Excert  1CY19921CY1993:CY1994:CY1995:CY1996:CY19971C11998:TOTAL                                    : cier
:--    -----  --    -----   -*------------:-------:-----:---- :-- - : ---: .--:-- :------:- --- - -:-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..*  I--- -  ---   -- -  .. ~.,
12PRIMARY HEALTH CARE                                                                                                                      I : 1                        I       :
:    Consultant/Soecialist Services:                              .          :       :       :      :       :       :      :
- -- -------- - - - -        
I Establishent of National Exec BArd for PHC                   Lead solst   2.0    0.5    0.5                                       3.0                                IIRD
: 2 Primary Care Practices curriculus develoosent/training  Lead splst?  3.0   12.0    3.0 1 5                 1.0            1.0    20.0                                 IIRD:
3 Nurse/Primary Care Practices (PCP) expert                    Lead solsti  1.0    2.0 1         i       1                          3.0                             13RD0
4 PC  technology assessment                                    Lead solst 2 2.00                                                                                       138RD
5 PCP Finance                                                    !Ltid solstl  1.0  .                                                  1.0: IIRD
I  6PCP oractice eanaqement                                       :Lead solstl  ;.5                                                   1.5                                IIRD
7 PCP Training Soecialist                                      Lead solsti           2.0 12,0    1.0    1.0 i              1.0      7.0                              1 18RD
8 lnoower planning                                             Lead solst:           1.0 i               11.0  Deoloyment of nurs,                                    18RD
9 Prisary Health Care (PHCI Nurse/educator                     Lead splst:           3.0                                            3.0                               1IRO
10 PHC curriculum develooont/training                           Lead solst   1.0    3.0                                              4.0                               18RD
11 Development of Acadesic Units                                 Lead solst   6.0    6.0 2    0                                     18.0                                 EC
12 Assesseent of Practice needs                                 Lead solst   2.0I  2.0    2.0                                        6.0                              :  EC
13 Tendering Procedures (EC Procedures)                         Lead solst: 1.0 11.0             1  0                                5 3                                 EC
14 Assessment of Training needs                                 Lead solst 2 2.0                                                     2.01                                EC
115 Develop AHP team                                           :Lead solst  3.0   3.0    3.0    3.0 1                               12.0                                 EC
16 Finalize PhC Program Budget                                 !Lead solist   0.5                                                    0.5                                EC
17 EC HP Program  Administrator                                 :Lead solst  12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0                              48.0                                EC
118 Management Soecialist                                         Lead solst?  6.0    3.0    3.0    3.0                               15.0: EC
119 Mid-term  EC Project review                                !Lead sIst t           1.51                                           1.51                               EC
20 EC Project evaluation                                       !Lead solst.                          3.0                         2   3.0                                 EC
21 budgetarv Policy review                                      !Lead splst: 2.0                                         1       1 2.0                                IEC:
22 Architect/engineering design/spn of PCP facilities            Lead sDlst:  3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0   21.0  In 3 Project Consortia    I18R
123 Architect/engineering design/son of EC-financed PCPs   ILead solstc  3.0   3.0    3.0                                              9.0  Outside of 3 Consortia        EC:
24 PCP project evaluation                                        Leiad solst          1 0         :          1.0            1.0      3.0                               1 8RD
125 PHC project evaluation                                        Lead solst2           1 .0 I      I          1.0         :  1.0      3.0                               1 8R
I                 Subtotal Consultant Sorvicmn                               152.0   60.0   38.5   25.01  7.0    3.0    7.0   192.5                                            I
:                                                :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------- -----:--:------:           -  -:-:-------:--        --                 -.-
Fellovships/Study Tours;                                                                                                                                          I
. .. __ .. ~~__.~_ ........... : : :                                                         :                  :                 :               :
:  I Study toursolanning national training organizations           foreign   13.0                                   1                  3.0                                IMD:R
12 Study tour:observe PKC curriculum training methods             Foreign   : 2.0    3.0                    :0  5.0:                                                     IIRD:
3 Study ToursObserv  PONS curriculua/training                  ;Foreign      Z 2.0                                                  2.01                             1 EC
:  4 Study tour:practice management, finance, facilities    :Foreign            2.0    3.0          :              :                   5.0                             t 1 38RDI
I5 Fellovships:Trainee Primary Care doctors                       Foreign   1        1100.0 110.0 0:                       :       1 200.0 2100 PHC doctors            I DRD 1
I  6 Fllocuships:PHC trainors                                     Foreign      30.0  : 30.0 1       1       1                      160.0 110 traunors                     liROD 
:  7 Study Tour:Practice principals                               :Foreion   1       1100.0 .1  5.0 :1 5.0i         I              2110.0                                 EC: 
8 Study Tour0Practice Managesent,Finance                       !Foreign      2.0:                1 :       :                        2.0                             I ECI
I 9 Fellomsbipsiledlcal Acdemy staff                              foreign        36.0 16.0   36.0                  : 1108.0   -onth courses                             IEC  I
I10 Study Tour:Analvtical servicn                                 :Foreiqn      1.0    1.0    0.5           :                          2.5                             IEC  I
I 11Study Tour:udgetary Policy review                             :Foreign      2.0                 I                                  2.0 13 candidates n                EC:
112 Study ToursConference, pro-post graduate educ                 lForeign   : 3.0    3.01  3.01  3.0              :                  12.0 'for core lecturing teams I  EC:
I13 Study Tour;Health Care planning                               foreign      15.0    6.0    6.0    6.0 1          I                 33.0                             I ECi
114 Study Tour:Conftrtnce, Undergraduate training                  foreign      1.0    1.0 11.0    1.0             :       1           4.0                                EC: l
115 Study Tour:Hoelth Care  anageteotninforeation systems   foreign             1.0         :                                          1.0                                ECI
16 Study Tour:Conference, estAblish EACESHCNC  ctivities  :Foreign            1.0    1.0    1.0           :      :                   3.0                             I EC  I
I17 Study Tour:Hoalth Care Organizations                          IForeign      2.0 12.0                           :       :           4.0                             I EC:
18 Fellowships:MIa Management Developmtnt                       !Foreign     36.0 136.0   36.0   27.0                            S135.0  15 fellowshios             IEC
19 FellowshipsPhD Managesent Development                        lForeign    10B.0 1101.0 1108.0: 81.0                              405.0 015 felloeshios             I EC:
220 Fellowships:short-term course, Management Develoosent  !Foreign             2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0                               8.0                             I EC:
I21 Fellowships:Curriculus Development                            foreign       2.0                                                  ,2.0                               IEC 
22 Fellowshies:Continuing Education                               fornion      2.0                  2                                 2.0                             : ECI
Subtotal Fellowshios/Study tours               I           253.0 2432.0 1298.5 :125.0            :               1108.5 2 
*-                                      __--          __.__-            .- ---------------: ---                     --



- 61-                                             .Page 3of 6
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT'
Technical Assistance Summary by Project Component
-- - -------  - ----------                                                                                           ---------.---------
Role             Schedule of Avaiiabilitv/Activitv                      I
FIELD OF EXPERTISE                                 of    i--                      :                               IREMARKS                               Finan-l
*Excert  :CY1992:CY1993:CY1994:CY1995:CY1996:CY1997:CY1998:TOTAL   I                                     1 cuor
 ----------------.------             ---          ~~~~--- - ----                                        ---
I3HEALTHNMANAGE.'.ENT:                                                                                                                           I
3A HOSPITAL ADlIISSION/OtSCHARSE INFORMATION J ACCOUNTING                              :1                              I       iI
I    ConsultantlSaecialjst Services;                                                                                                               
II   edical records librarian                                      hLeid solst!  4.0 1.2.0 11.0 :1.0    1.01                           i 9.01                                13RD
2 Medical CarulEoidesiology                                      :Lead solstl  2.0    3.01   3.0 :1.0    L .0 1                      110.0:                                   INRD 
3AdsissionslOuschargm  Info, Accounting Management              !Lead solst.  0.5   27.0   30.0   17.0                      i       a   4.5                                  JI3RO 
14 Admission/Discharge Info, Accounting Management                 !Assoc      10.5   12.0 112.01  8.0 1                                  32.5                                 I (RD
5 Project evaluation                                             :Lead solst:            L .0 11.0 1  1.01   1.0 a                   s 4.0:                                  I IRD 
16 Educationial Progras design                                     !Lead sp1st:  1.0 :  l.0    1.0 I           1                       01 1   3.01                           1(3D 
1  7Educational Program design                                       :Assoc      :12.0 112.0 :12.0 :                             i          36.0i                                (3RD:
8 Financial Auditor                                                 :Lead solst:  1.01   1.0:   1.0 :1.0:   1.01  1.0:   1.0:    7.0:                                           IDAD 
9 Project evaluation                                                !Assoc      1       I3.0    3.0 1  3.0:   3.0    3.0:   3.01   18.0 I                                     1(RD:
a ~      ~             -------,---------~---- -------
Subtotal Consultant Services                     1             21.0  62.0  64.0 :32.0:   i.0    4.0 I4.01  194.0:
1 FmllOmShLos/Study Tours:                                                            a       a       a       aa                      a        a
L 1Accounting Management                                           :FortLon    1       14.0 14.0 :3.0:                 i               1  11.01                              :I3RD
Subtotal Fellowshios/'Study tours                1                       4.0:   4.0:   3.0:                             11.0:
138 PHARMtACEUTICAL MONITORING AND QUALITY CONTROL                                              1       1       1       1       .      .        ..
---- ---- --   - ---      --
1  Consultant/Soecielist Services:                                                                     ,       ,       aa
1  1Drug Requlation/ftana9gemnt                                    'Lead solst:  1.0 :20.0:20.0 :12.0 :                                    3.0 1                                jRD 
I2 Drug RegulationlllAfagement                                     :Assoc          L .0: 15.0:15.0:   7.0:                                38.0i                                 logRDo
I3 Project evaluation                                              !Lead solst!           L .o:   1.0:   .  1.0       : :0   4.0:                                               (3RD
14 Project evaluation                                              :Assoc      :       13.0 :3.0:   3.0:   3.0 1               1        1 12.01                                IIDA
1  5Translation setrvices                                          !Lead smlst:  3.0 13.0 13.0 I               1                           9.0 :                             1(RD
Subtotal Local Consultant Services               :14.0 122.0   22.0:11.0    4.0: I                                      63.0 i                               
1 Fellowships/Study Tours:                                                            1       1       1       1       1       I       1        11                                   1
SIDrug monitoring                                                I'Fortion   .1 0.51I4.0:   4.0:  2.0:                1       i          10.5:                              I(3RD I
SabtotAl Fellowshiao/Study tours                                 0  .5 :  4.0 14.0 :2.0 :            r               110.5:1                                        1
3C OUDSETIN6                                                                                                                                                                  
1 Consultanit/Soecialist Services:                                                            :       a       a       aa1                                                           1
L IResource Allocation                                             :Lead solst:  4.0:   2.0 12.01   2.0:   2.0 1                        1 12.01                               IN3D
I  2Project Evaluation                                               :Lead $Dist:        I  3.0 1        :          3.0 1        1      1 6.0 :I (RD 
3 Project Evaluation                                             :Assoc       1        13.0 1  10 11.0    3.0 1                            .0                                 IN1(3D 1
Susbtotal Consultant Services                    1            14.0    9.01   3.0 13.0:   6.0:                           26.0 1I 
I FellowshioslStudy Tours:                                                    a       aa                      a;                      1        .I
I Study tour:observe resource allocation processes               :Fareion   13.5 11.0 11.0 11.0 1  1.0 I                     :       : 7.5 :                                  (RD 
----- - --- - -----                                                                                                          ........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:---:---::



Annex A
- 62 -                                          Page 4 of 6
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Summary by Project Component
Role   I        Schedule of AvailabilitylActivitv                                               t
*                    FIELD Of EXPERTISE                              of      ---- --------1 - --- -                       --       ---         RENARKS              Finan-1
I                                                               I Excert  1CY19"2CY19931CYI"41Y19951CYI996CY1997CY1998IT0TAL                          I               cier I
1 3D NAHANEMENT DEVELOPMENT                                                 I i    I       I                                           I                                    I
I                              ..                                          . a.  _         1      1.. :      :      :       :            1.             '1 
t    Consultant/Soecialist Services:                                                            I                 I                        I
- ---------------------                                    :          :       : *    :       : a  a        I       a       a       a                           I
I  IInstitutional develooment                                    Lead solstl  2.0    1.0    1.0                  :      I           4.0                             1 IBRD:
1 2 Institutional development                                   :Assoc      I 3.0    3.0    3.0                        9'0 I   90                                   : 1SRD
1  3 Comouter prograssing                                       ILead splstl  1.0    3.0                 1                      1   4.0:                            1131O"
:  4 Establish syster  of pre/post-graduate education            Lead spIstl  3.0    6.0    6.0    3.0            ,                I          :                          310RI
5 Establish system of prelpost-graduate education            :Assoc      : 6.0   12.0   12.0 112.0    6 0 i                     48.0 1                            1     :
16 Curriculum development- prelpost-graduste education           Lead spist. 6.0 112.0   12.0 I6.0    2.0               : 1        38.O                              IDRD
1  7 Currsculun development- pre/post-graduate education        'Assoc      i6.0  i12 0   12.0 112.0    60           1          1  48.0 0: 130RD
8 Curr:culuo develoosent- continuing education                Lead splstl  6.0   12.0    6.0                                 124.0                               : IBIDIR
9 Curriculun develoooent- continuing education               !Assoc         6.0   12.0 112.0    6.0    3.0 1                    39.0                             : tDRD
10 Project evaluation                                          Lead splst:          1.0    1.0    2.0    1.01  1.0    1.0         7.0                               IBRD
11 Project evaluation                                         :Assoc             12.01  2.0    2.0    2.0                         8.0                               IBRD i
12 HCID inforeation network development                        lead solst: 1.0    1 .0             1 .0                          i3.0                               IRD
:13 Translation nervices                                        Ilad solst: 2.0    3.0    3.0                                       8.0                               [ORD 1
:                                                               a -------:----, ----: 1-----: --- --               a--      a- ---- ----   a-------:--
Subtotal Consultant Services                  1           142.0   80.0   70.0   44.0   20.01  1.0    1.0   25R.0
I    Fellowtships/Studv Tours:                                              a
I Fllowshios: long-term courses,  Bia                          :Foreign   : 8.0   36.0   62.0   57.0   21.0            : 1      14.0    IIPN8  candidates          IRD
:  2 Fellowshios: long-term courses, PhD                        :foreign       8.0 136.0   72.0   86.0   57.0 121.0             1280.0 19 PhD candidates              IBRD i
3 MCII continuing education                                   Foreign       3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0                 :          12.0                             11PD 1
4 Study tour:inst:tutional dnvelooment                       !Foreigon   11.0    1.0    1.0    1.0                               4.0                            Ua RD 1
5 Study tour:Establish system  of pre/oost-grad education lForeign   i3.0    9.0 19.0    9.0                                    30.0                               IDRD
1  6 Study tour:Curriculun developmt/undergraduate training  foreign   13.0    3.0    3.0    3.0 1               1                 12.0                             a IPRDI
7 Estab joint EACE  CIID activities                           Foreign   1 3.0    3.0    3.0                                     t9.0                               IBR3
a                                                                :-----:- -----:----1--:------1-- -----  a                    - -       --      - --a- -
Subtotal Fellowshios/Study tours              1           129.0 1 91.0 1153.0  159.0 1          O   21.0        531.0                             : a
3E HEALTH FINANCINa
I    ConsultantlSocialist Services:                                                                             I a                                                :       :
g __.........                             __                          _ a   a   a :   :                     :              a :                                 a:
I  Health financing study                                       Ilad solstl        :                                                       se-sus Contanct          I 10a   I
:   Subtotal ConsulUnt Sntvicn                            :                                                                                               I
I    Fellowships/Studv Tourst:                                                             :                     : a                    a                           I       :
I Health economics                                               Foreign   1 2.0    1.0:  1.0:  1.01  1.0 I                         6.0               1             I ID I
2 Health insurance                                               Foreign   1 2.0    1.0:  1.0    1.0 :  1.01            :           6.0                            l13  D
I                 Subtotal Fellooshios/Study tours              :           1 4.0:  2.0    2.0    2.0 1 2.0:                       12.0a



I                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 4_
-63 -                                            Page 5 of 6
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Summary by Project Component
- .-- -- ---------- -. -. --------... _.--- .-.- -.. - _-1-,- ,:, .. :........ .._ .    _._._ ....... ....... -... __ -.. - ----------- - - ---....... ............... _._.. . ............. _
1   Role   2        Schedule of Avaiiablitv/ACt1Vitv                                                 I
FIELD OF EIPERTISE                               of      -          -- ----* -- --------- ------     2EIIRI-S                                      IFin-R
:                                                                 *  Ezeert   CY199: CY1932C51994 :CY1945: CY199t CY19972 CY1 99TOTAL                                   2 cier
4 REGIONAL HEALTH SERVICES                                                  II
14A/D REIOAL. MANANEMENT i INFRASTRUCTURE CONSOLIDATION                              1              a                                                                   I a
:    Caultant/Soecialist Services:                                2           2      a       a
I  I Projetct Nenoesmnt                                           Lead solit  32.0 248.0: 4.0 0   4E.0 I   .0    6.0 L. 6.0   194.0 24 PoSts (natl A 3 conshor)  131
2  2 Develop Consortia santur/operations plans                    Lead nplst   2.0            1                           a           2.0                                ID
I  3 Devlop Consortia consolination plan                          Lead solst  12.0   19.0                                             50.0  tfor 3 consortia             IB3RD
4 Deloo architectural/onginterinq design standards             3Led solst2  S         .0 0          3a0                 :       2   9a0 Ifor 3 consorti                 II3RD
5 Arch/Enoineering desipn/suoervison                          aLoid solst:       a              a                                  0.0  3 Luoo-sue contracts           3R0 2
:   Project evaluation                                           Lead splst            2.0    1.0    2.0     1.0 2  1.02   2.0 2   9.0                                 I2RD 2
7 Project Evaluation                                           Lead selst:           6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   2 36.0                                   I0
I  I Translation services                                         Lead solst   6.0    6.0                                          1  12.02                               131D
I                 S-ubtotal Consultint Services                                $550   B5 80   1550   59.0   13.0   13.0   14.0   292.0 
:                             :--------:-----:----- :----:------:-----'------:-----:------------- ---------~-w--
FillcZvshios/Stuev Tours:                                                                                                         0.0:
:  v------------                :           :       :      :      :       :       :      :       :  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0:         
Iftlsterolan dveSolrccnt                                      :Forciqn       t, 0                                                   4.0  1, fcillcshios              :IJRD
2 Study tour; Tramzg visits to PlUs                             Foreign       4.0    4.0                                             B o.                              liRD
Subt'otal Fellorsh:opstStudv tours                         IB.0    4.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    a .o:  12.01
:~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... -==---------                                  --- -  ----------- - ---- - ---:------------:-----------
Consultant/Sootialist Services:                                                                               
:    --------------             :           :      :       :      :       :       :      :       :  ~~~           ~         ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~0.0:   
I Adeistions/Disenargo Inforsation. Accounting n nagesent Load solst:  1.0    7.0    7.0    5.0                                    20.0  I1 candidate/consortia        [BAJD
:2 Adsisslons/Discharqs Intors^tion, Accounting Hnagoqnent.Assoc            :1.5    4.5    5 0    5 0                            I12.0                                   IEh
3Projectv*luston                                                       s1.0    1.0    1.0    I O    1.0    1.0                         t,.0  I candidate/consorti        IDRD
:4 Project evaluation                                           !Assoc      :           0 0:   .0    5.0    5 0    1.0    1.0    14.0                                  :IM0O
I5SFinancisl Auditor                                              :Lsed solst:  2.0    2.0 I2.0    2.0     2.0    2.0 12,0    14.0  I1 candidate/consortia    IIBRD 
:        ~       Subtotal Consultmt Serices                                     4 5   17a 5   16.0   14.0    6.0    4.0    4.0 I a,Y.0  a                                      :
t                                    : ----: ----:              : *---: -----:----:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- -- ------:---:----------:  
: Fellonfhios/Study Tours:                                                                                                           
:    ----------                 :           :      :       :      :       :  '   :       :       :  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~0.0:        
:IIkteu,tinge r.^.# 6,t                                           :Foreion   11.5    9.0    9.0:  60                    1:25.5 0
I                 Subtotal FtlloenhiesfStudy tours                               1.5    9.0    9.0    * 0:  0.0    0.0    0.0    25.5:                                          :
: - --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- - :----- ----- ----- -- ---:-----::



Annex 4
- 64 -                                          Page 6 of 6
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Summary by Project Component
z ____. _ __ " __ _    _ _  _ ........... . ..........................  -- - ------ - ._ -................................................ .. ---- . ---------- - ----------------- _  -  - ------
Role           Schedule of Availabilitv/Activitv
FIELD OF EXPERTISE                               of      -------------- -                       ------      -----           REMARKS              finan-
IExcrt  2CY1992CCY193:CY199q4CY1Y95 CY1996CYIS972C9 98iTOTAL                                      citr
:--  ------------   ---___:__   __--:-----:------:-- --:                  :       ,-     :---~~~--:------:-----:                             :
1 40 PFMRMACEUTICAL MONITORING AND QUALITY CONTROL                                                                                   0.0
t  -----.---------------                                                                                                             0 0               A 
I    Coeultant/Soecialist Services:                                                                 - a                              0.0
I                                                                  : :                      a      a :            a       a :        0.0:
I   I  a  Rgulationilaeaqeent                                     Lead slit: 1.0 27.0 17.0    5.0                                   20.0                              : 1130
1  2 Orq R"ulation/Ranaqnent                                     lAssoc       11.0      .0    4.0    3.0                         :  11.0  3 soecialists               : IIRO
3 Project evaluation                                          :Lnd sust          23.0    3.0    3 0          0    30 L 3.0    18.0                                 : lRO
1  4 Project evaluation                                          'Assoc                30    3.0    3.0    30    3.0    3.0    18.0 23 soecialists                     IIRO
a                  .Subtotal Consulta nt Services                               2 .0   16.0   17.0   14.0    6.0    6.0       .0    67. 0
: a-                                                                         ---, --       :- :-   -- --  - -----.--a--- -
Fellowshios/Study Tours:                                                                      a                                 0.0
:  -------                      :           :      :      :       :      W       :      :       :  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0:    
:      Orugq Monitoring                                          IFortion       15   16.0   17.0   12.0                             46.5 220 oarticiulconsor
:                                                :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----------: .-----    -.-  -: -:- :--:------:-       - ---:----    ---              -
Subtotsl Fellowshims/Studv tours                              1.5   16.0   17.0   12.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    46.5 5
24E TECHNCL06Y/NATERIALS  fAA6E.MENT                                                                              aO .2
_.----------                           _                             _               a___ :         a              a       a     o:                            a:a 0.0
:    tonsultant/Soec.alist Services:                             a           aa
,_ - - - ------ - - -- -- -a-- - ----                                                                                          0.0
I  Eouioeent/Technoloqy eanaoeent                                 Ledd solst;  L 0    2.0    1.0    1 .       1.0                    6.0                               19RO
2 Euipsent/Technoloy oanaaeeent                               Asscc         6.0    9.0    6.0    6.0    6.0                     33.0                               IIRO
3 Naterials enaqesent-                                        'Lead solst:  1.0    2.0    1.0    1.0    1.0            i          6.0                               IIRO
4 MNaterials eananaeent                                       :Assoc         6.0    9.0    6.0    6.0    6.0                     33.0                               IIRD
a                                                                a           :      :       :      :       :       : -   a      a: -     :   -       
Subtotal Consultant Services                                 4.0 2:2.0   14.0  14.0  14.0    0.0    0.0    78.0 
:                              :-----:--:                :    -:        :    --,-- -  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- : -   ---:  -----  - ---
Fellovshios/Studv Tours;                                                                                                        0 0
:~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                   ~         ~       ~~ a- -  a   a   a   a    a   :   :    a.:    
I  IStudv-tour:Translate Tech/latis Maiagqtent Sottsare    iForein              3.0            1.0                                   4.0 2                                RO19
2  2 Study-tour; Equimeent Nanaqement                            :Foreign       4,0    4.0            4.0    4.0                    16.0                             I2RO
3 Study-tour: Materials Itnaqnetnt                             Foreign       4.0    4.0         :  4.0    4.0                    16.0                               IIIRO
t~~~~~~~~~~~~ I--- --  --                                                           ---a- ---a ----- a----                                   -        --
Subtotal Felloushios/Study tours                            11.0    1.0    1.0    9.0    8.0    0.0    0.0    36.0
:--:-   -a               -



- 65 -                                               Annex 5
Page 1 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring Indicators
Tvpg       Unit    Uutit/tatil:                                            Distrebution of Guantities                total    Total
Coeoonn-          of         of      Sast Cost          Intut  stcriptioA            --  --:Qt  of  siU Colt:
Input      lnout   llUsovul                                          192 113  19,4  1993  1994  1997  1990   Ineut  rUSn OOOI
2...... ........... ......    ......s..:
:A.  HEALTH PRCAOTIC.M
:1.  Health Promotion Proqraao
: 9                STIL Con% */month             1.0  tetch Asnesnnt/Curr  oev/EvIl            4    11       3     2      2      1      2:     27:       432
LL Consult  *i/onth           1.1 lPrograo  Evaluation                     3    12    12    12        2      2      2:     45:         it1
ST Fellow   e/oonth           60  iHlth Curr Oev/Proq Evaluation          S3                   3                           1:         94
*Oenlopoentan  Soread       20.0 :Healn Survey                      i    2s:                                             100a::     250
Oevelounentl Spread          500 .Hf Pruqram g rvelaeeent            1           20t   30?   30?   20?                :    0oo,:      50:
:                  CCoauter   paciaqt             5.0 :PC Harowaru/Piricherals              I5                                                  3         25
Coopu 0aim  annual            0.5 014  - Coeouter Hardvare                        5      5      5     5      5      5                  1
EquiPment n  ac ha    1      10.0 :Oftice Equineent                         5                                                5        50
:                  Equplo 04   annual             1.0  0111   Oftic  Eouipment                        5      5     5      3      5     5                  SO0
:                   EpuE soott  package          50.0 :Av Elp/oatls:Uourd.3 req,l sch:    ,5                                                    5        ZO
:                  Equio O0I  annual             10.0 :01  - AY Equipment                             5      5         5  5      5       I               S00
fSoftware   package          10.0 3oqok/Ttchnical journals                 5      3      5     5 5           5      5      5:        3350
: Softvare   packaqe   1                           .2 :PC desktop publishinq Software:         5                    5                          10         1,:
Software   annual             0.1 !fC Softvare license/upgrade             5      I      5     5    10    10    10                      4
12.  trintnq of Health Educators
KST/H  Cons  e/eonth      1    .0 I(rqanioe annual workshops               I      I      I     I      I      I      1      7         W2
:                   ST/HL Con, I Soread         z2.0  Arch/Enq@  services:ualrd Univ                 7t0   SO3                                1oo0:       231
L/T Fellow  s/month           4.0 IMSc Public Health/HP (20 fIlil:    24   100   148   12t    42                          440      1,170
S/T Fellow  /ssonth           6.0 :IM  Proiedial/tour (50 (.l1l           22    40    54    44    24                  :       1   :   1,466
trainnq    Vn/onth            3.0 ICshoog HP Progil  kl:20 part                   5      5     5      3      5     5       30         90
Traning    s/month            3.0 SO kshno  Spl subIll w,l:750 par!              38    73      5          18          :        17:   1.12S:
:ulidtnqo   I Spread        230.0  Uogrradna:Univ Krakok  trg faci:              30    SOt                                t 1oo0:    230 
Build OI I Spread           5.0  10411: Univ Krakow trsaninq faci               0?   50?  100:1 tOOt  lOOt  loo:             :      23
Etuleent  I Sproed          N40.0  Trainig Equipstntt Univ  rat                       lOOt                               100:          0
EQuIP 019  t Soread           4.0  101  Univ  lrakow traonn   oui                  T    Ot  100   100?  100l   1OO?: S                24
Salaries    a/month           O.2 INatt HP Center: 7 add Staff            42    64    64    84        4    64    64 d      4&        109
Salaries    o/sonth           0.2 MContor HP: 2 add staff/Consor         S3    72    72    72    12    72    72    4ta:               94:
13.  Occupational Health                  :
STIHL Can  so/onth          11.0 lOccuo health t11  esperts)               311.5                                      :    tS        232:
:                  LL Contult  asoonth            1.1  Occup/indutt halth safety              14      6                                        2          25:
S/T Fellow   a/soth 1         6.0 :Tour: Occ hith plan/aqt/eval                                                             5         40



- 66 -                                                  nr, 5
Page 2 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule and Monitorlng Indicators
1 ..*aswuuma.aaw,uu     w...a .....nt.....wn I esIuau sn,i. $ aiuio sn          As    8a   ,.a.Iun.nuam e.u.. ssn           ESSSgUls*               R s n*oSSU :
I                      tteo       Un:ti    llitt/tot4i                                                            o hstr:vtian tt  uotitas  I tettal    Total
C.OguN.t           of          ot    liSm  Cosl            In: t Oe:crsptsos        I .-. :Qty of   l  co Cut.
[flout     Input    USIuOOOo ;                                       192  1943  1fl4  191 9   1I9S l1t9 1t    Inout  IIUSIOOOI
hauattn  on."osns.sna.      8san... aus n": ...s8sn.a S! is* s .f,.asa Stev *a...Sa agse..s**nSSSaas*ssogstss                     *.ss: avwn m sn.     s nss,
11.  P10*A9Y  IWA        CARE
I                 -....-...- ...                      ... . ... S                                                                         ,        I ..   
I1.  Ptirv Care PraCtices                  I
--                                     I:                                                                                             :::
|5            ST/I   Cans  4/$oath          14.0  Ezost TA:  INC and  PCP              10.5  14.5  5I.5       1      2            2       3         400
11P864ted     LL Consult  n/sonth            1.1 :PIrect Evlaation                              I                   I                     I 3        S
loomnts        s/SI  Fellow  Veoonth         8.0 ;Stuod  tonrs                            7      4                                        13        104
SIT Fciloo  al:onth           8.2 :trainet PCP%/PC tramnrs                30   ISO   100                                  240      2.080
tratmtfno    o/ooth           3.0 M6hsio:PCP eqt.finnnl,fcsl,oqP                 20    20                                  40        120
trTaMing     n/sonth          3.S  :Caon:nu:ng education             i          200   200   200   200                     3o0      2,400
Training   I SPoud           20.0  eoshc:: PePC currcului planng          lOt   *5:   451:                                to0t:       20
v,eloosentt SOrevd        2400.0 !Rneira:  suoogrt                        52   20:   15    Li5    151   is,   15:    100o:   2.400
cov@logenitA  Sorsad        250.0  Ptal;:atons                                   25    15:   1       153 L  S 1 1: 15'    l00:       230
Devqloonent: Sored          300.  : Public toucatmon                       5t   20:   153   153   15:   152   15::   100:            540
Buildings       Spread       10.0  Ugorde4 4Utinnal PhC center                  1002                                  :   100i :     20
alul 0U1   t Soread           5.0  OPOC Center 0u                                 0  1002 100:  1002 too :  100          :           25
Coooucer   package            5.0 :PC   r,owrt/P,righerrls           1            5                                         5         25
t                   Cacou OH   annual            O.5 :GAP. - Comouter Hardare                                5     5     5         5                     13
:                   I3uiPEiont      Soread 1    170.0 :nPoC Ctr:onffice/lAvncal cqo           100                                            100:      170
:                   SiUss 010    2 Spread        11.0  INP4C tqutniPSt a04                          100  1001  100  100  100  100l :                 102
Equtootnt  ptackge           20.0  Trounsq tsouL: 5 acedgidess                    5                                         I        too
:                  Eouto 04a  annual              2.0 :004   traintng r                               0qu      S    5     5      5     5                  50
Saft.are   package            1.2 :PC ioftvar   S academies                       5                                         5
Softeare   annual             0.1 :PC So:itare ILcene/uagrido                     O             5           5  5    5                  2
Software    ackage           10.0  4sdio?v%Utl etitl: S ocad i                    5             5            5           i 1         10
Softwbare    packagei        20.0 :I0ktSIt#c journals: S acldtt                  5             5            5             15        3001
SalariNe     eloanthi         0.  Steering Coon: I II staff               *    12                                         21         1b
Salairis    ouioth            0.4 :Stetring Con. 2 LL staff         I    13    24                                        '4          141
Salaries    slooth            1 1.1 :t Pfrs Cars 1rd:l director                         12    12    12    12    12         b0 Ul
Saiaries    glmth 1           0.3 :Nat Pria Care W4 K  staff  2                         34    34    36    3       3  :   10SO        III
Salaies    o/t4tth            0.2 :11t Pret  Care Ird:14 add staff:    to  1i    14 lta     14U   146  1U3   1,024                  205
Oper/Aecnrrt Spread         120.0 RIPNC non-salary opor costs              10ot   15   IN    15       5 2 1   15:    100:        120
:~~~~~~~~~ :                             :                                                                                  :            : 
: 1 EC1.St/K  Cons  o/oonth    1    .5 :Dn, acid uniti/tr9 nods asnet                    14    12    1        S3                          *1        IIlt
I    FiuCed         SIT Follo. a/eonth              .1 :StaGy tours/fellohip5s           i    40   134    41        5                         222      1,604
I     l15mts        Training     o/sonth          3.1   sartoeps:Sev IW  tea                        125   125   125                            75      3.044
L:  Consult  o/oonth          0.9  lastip  of PCR facilities               S3     3                                         9: '
lveleooesnt Spread i    125.0 :Public Educatin                           25    25   25   25                            100        1251
1Seeoloeent Spread          19.0  Currtculve cntrsece                           3      3315    3SO                       lo 100:    19
IDvelooleat Spread            M0 :Research nugoort                      100                                              100:       I3
IiosIdng%s  units            25.2  Upgrsding of 300 PC                          100   100   100                           SO30  1   7,4 1
3lo)1  040  annual              .s :PCP Ousildig 00I                              0   100   200   SOO  S3O        OO           i     405
I   hildngs  2 Spread       543.0   enoWeate 3 Acodehic facilitils               Hz   3?   33S                             to 100:  543 
usId  0101   Spored         11.3  Acadgtoc hailding 040             i            0   33;   in   100  100  100:            i      45
EquLpont  packgeo            11.3 :PCP equltnt                       i          100  1to    100                           3 200   3.375 2
Eggip 0t0  annual             1.1 'old - RC,  quigent                1            0   100   200   SOO   300 3O  O                  1,350
Solttare   t Spread         s38.0  Library A tnto resorn             :     o0 52 In     mt L t                        :   1002:       33
:2.  Io-Service Training
t101          ST/lt  Cons   /so/th          1 .0  Espat MtARonsr/nurst ed/curr            I      J 7                                                1
: saMood      LL Consult  sl/soth            1.1  Projet evaluation                              I II                       I              3
fleo ts       Training      o/enth           3.0  PHCT staff training               I          10O   100   200   200   200               300      2,400
Soaftue    SI read           10.0  Training eaterials                           S1   132   251   251  2I.                 ICo:        10t
IEC           ST/HIK  Cons  s/oonth         11.4  Proq Adss/tudqet/soat/enal           220.5  14S      15    15                           47   1  .230
Fituced       Sit Fellow    t/ooth .         3.1  Study tours/fslloshhips                32   1  13.5    1                             735.3       594
Ilitosts      SIT Folloa  e/eooth            S.,  Lngot.r. fellowshipt              :   144   144   144   103                            540    *4.3St
Cooeatur   I Soreod           13.1 :CUoeo9er Nardnart/Pornehsrals               100:                                      100:       IS
Equls 040  I SSread            1.3 :0a1   Coseutor Nardart                        0  100  100  100  100lot          1               7:
. . .....________ . . ~.............



-67 -Ane 
POLAND                                           F~~~age 3 of 8
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementatlon Schedule and Monitoring Indicators
l.iSttns..Ofl...fla . u......... :..O ...a.....A.. f...l........  S. ma"aw.swssa  .. w#Ga-.    ...  *W-
laawuet           of          if     Mae Cost           Io3at Oe,cristsoa              -          -      .       -       -         11   0       ,Cuit
I  least   toilet  llOSS000l                                       ~~~~~~~1,492  tits  L194444  1 944 MA    "?47   14   lagat ZIUSI90011l
tt/K4 Cons  uoitO   1                 14.0 I:1.oatA 15   1  Acct santl4oot     0.5    27    30    17                         1    fl      1,04311
ILI. Ca4sv!t  */.et.                    5.0  LUciL TA:*cct qt/dilaa/tWnl     i2.5    V           27    LI      3                     i        403 1
W /  Feill.  $0/00th                   1,0 3/0, kcet sfalloqovat                           4      4     3                            t11      6a 
Training    e/uoth            3.0 :4/0, kcct 80OdqOOet                     1    24    24    Is                            44        142i
I        Cootetr   gicos,.           330.w) :1101 Coo   sOSfato                      I                                               I        350
ICasesOi 04           t*4 asi    I    31.0 :5001 Casnga ser  eveo  0din1                                1      1                              210 
*Cuoje4tor   04eats;.                 11.1  Vososi4: CONS R04156attu4l'                   20    1o      I                           Ss        534
Cuoa OAR  af"tol              1.4 :1004004 Cfocoto' svscos O40                   0    20    3*    a8    311   38                    231
Cocoetor   040aqe16           4.0 :$sll mls.i Coss Ward/Softoare:               70    80    02                      : 212t   1.40
*C4OON Din  Sacasl                      4.f:4 hal/ese Coaa'sto' ,10  000 Dn                0    10   130   212   212   212 :770
*Ceeoetor   packiqe                    f.4 mogfs  eHls! Cote 15rst0/lotoaf:              125   125    77327                                2.943
*        Coop  Ole  Vasseal            o.4, motle4I4s  C"ooftor tystOs 050                 0   l2.5   250   327   327   327                1.2340
C4.eqtto,  0schaqe  I          .0 :Pilot Uorqe Moss. Kafg/Saftw4r!         2                                               2         is
CsoloOUPI asoejl                       M .  :Ptlst Lrg/HosoUsCe "sit OlO                  2      2     2      2     2      2                  It:
Coloptor   MaciSis            4.0 :Large mmoy: Coos Hard/softoareo              33    40      4                                     ht71
Coop" O10  sasool   1         0.4 7.4rqot eliot Cao  cll ost din4                0    13    73    74    74    74                    l0t
lissoecot  package           10.0 :108l  of fice floatsot           I      I                                                         to1
lqaso 040  aiceol             1 1.0:044   Office CEwvasgeot         l             1     1            1        I   I                   4
Seftosre   *scks,   1        12.0 :110:Su.ss/tocb Journal$          i      1     I      I            1 I   I       I:      7          4
saftwsro    *4C4140  1        3.4 :V4ivog:Ouks/fQC.% jssrOi4  .I                20    30    34    34                   1  26t       441
Software   pactaoe  :         4.   ludll Noso:Ioo.k$/tas jwoalsl                70   IS0   21?.  212                1 444           315
Software   s4ckaqe            0.8  ceot msosloobuas/tch Jouarnals              125   210   727   327                   1,021        r.31
Sotware9  ouckaqe  I          I.: :Larqt Nesu,ioos/TeKft Journals:        2    35    75    6t    It                     274        TV4
Salaret"s eoNti               4. :1211 soc   cresstal staff         1      4    4       e    44     4      0     4     472 1        134J
12.  Pbss      tlcsacl Oootstossq        .
P/101. Coms  a/oath 1        14.0  lI,o,t-tersO esat to: goal       I                   I     I      1                     4t        As4 
LTIML. Coss   iolomtb 1      14.0 :[B..t fIt Oiuq te4sl/sqt               I 1    2    20    12                     1      2         421
LI Caisslt  si.oati 1          .0  Local f8:ors, rs,sl/IAIa                4    21    21    10       3              :      4:       241
SIT follow  4/000th           0.0 :0.154 edostorshq                     0.5       A           2 I                         It         64:
Trssaioq    a/omth :           .0 10ru4 switlrteg                   1     &    20   120    46                       1   244 1      63 
Cuitor   packaqo  J    510.0 :FWs Cost ltds,8Sftostet                      I     1                                         2     1 4.100 
CowocOAR  aooss    I         SS.Ol:MMAlOCUgtsrfoWife00              1                   2     2      2     I2       i2              4051J
Cosouter  pucks,e  !         10.5 :Pilot Full POse Coss harl/toftl    1s                                             1    IS        1l8
Car  OAR  b"dus    I          1.1 :Pilot Phe elM  Caos  swato 0du:              15  3 Is    U       S     1 13:is    Ls41I
Casuotor   pack.qe  1        10.5 IPsol Punr  Cost H4rdiSaftw4re                W 4 30 aS                                261 :   2.44
Cup,o 061  amsosa    J        1.1 !h   Poir. CAsseter syit. 0UN                  0   130   285   21    205   265:                1.355
aC48eoso te' 1c1a40  1                10.1 IV*soedJ Come eU4/Sft54?                       :. 1 00 t     9                     I      9 34    50
Celo's OAR  anaehI    1       1.4 :Voivod C4aoitsr system Up1                    a    20    30    34    34    3t             i     2311
Cosgoter   package  !        10.5 Meall lse;s Coms esno/Ssftuare:               70    to    42                           it?21    .24 
CUse  010  mayI   J           1.1 :Sal/lmn   cosp,t05 hultS Om   I               0    70   I50   212   212   212J            I  1  644
Countelr   Mickoe  1.    10.5  Natdisi elost Come hs4d/IOtu5il                 1235 I * 15 77                            327:   3,4014
Camr  0AR  macal   J          1.1 :111eolk61 oeoCojtest   Slat00 0Du             0   123   210   32?    32 32 1y                  1.1424 
CuWlto'   pocaqo  1.    14.i :Pilot Loo; fleece Caste 14*rd/0              2                                               I 2       24 
cow  canO  umeat   I          1.SJ:sIot V941osoeClasoutor %wel*                  2      2     2      2     2      21                 161
Cosgate,   ptackae           14.4 :Lare Wii#t Cue MONf/SlIft"V:                 33    40                                  n 731    .m4 
*Canp,OAR  sasfal   I                   1.5  u.gl/kos COstestOSYtotOAR                     0    33    73.   73    73       73                4731
leeSspe.t  I Spread         W 0.0 :411alyttcl, eg411se0             *          100 too10oot                                        000o
foules  040  1 Wooed    160.0 :U10   hAnlytisco  Cesspoot                                 C4  100t  loot  t00t  1oot  toot:            I     400?
14la5p.et  package           10.0 lQfftce lqelOe4t                  1      1*                                              11        1 
lssspoO UR  NW"l   I          1.0 b0I0 -Offzc,lzAvisoot                                       I      I     I      I 1 
*Softosrnopackage  1                  2e.0 :nOs0obokitecs foeoroms            1     t      2      2     2      2     2      2       131       312?
Software   iotai 1ll          3.5  PesO Pha'i:kqositecn jobolsl           it   145  3so    so0   040                1  ,           .0160 
*        Soteorm   kcC40e  1             .9 :V61,o:Sessslilece  JoralsreI                 20    30    3t    3t                               ?i26 s74 
Saft..,.e  pacteqe  J         1.0 :Sull Koe:lsitl s/fecl jesnrls:               70   150   71    212                1   441         4C4 
*      Soffuane   Oscosyl  1         3~~~~~~~.0 :0084 Xlesit100ki/fech jeveCiall      1232   250   327   327                11,024     1.0241
O          attuaro   iscka4e            2.5 :Large lossaotlteltoca ,osro.4e         2    35    is    1I    I1                 .r  27'        as41 
Sal4inas      i/otat   1       .  :Ca astcresietal istaff                 46    44    44    44   414    44    44 1    24            132
Salaries    *1Gd4th           G 0.   siol,d socroseetil staff      1          240   344   448   446   448  4s6il  2.472            4944
.   ...     ........... . .. .....~.         ..- .     -.. .-..   ...    ..- -         --



- 68 -Aex S
Page 4 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring Indicators
Type      Uit  ilhst/Total                                              uOstrahutzoa tf Quantities              Total    total  I
Coeaent   of   of  late Cost Ioout Pescription     - --                                                                         Oty  3410 Cdotte
Input     hoet  IMUSE@000                                      I 1992   t         1 91 9   i   19    7 t991M 995   Input :1US4000:
.C. NEATH iANUEJit
I     .-                                                                                  
ST/HL Can   */onth          11.0  Eject TA: IRiourtc  alloc/eval         4     S     2      2     2                   1S        240
I                   LU Consult  a/month         1.1   ocal TA: Proirct enaluation                 S  I  I      I      I                    I 
:                  s/rT Fllow   /eonth          9.0 IStudv tour                           3.S         I     I     I             I                    40
traLnaq    alsonth           3.0  Local trainaiqn ctnter staff                 I           I     I                    4         12
Conouter   oichage  1        7.0  Strvcrt Harear  package             I                                                            7
Coou am  atnnual   1         0.7  OU - Stryert ackaqe                          I      I     I     I      I     I 14
Cutout.'  package            5.0  Dt Itaro.re/Peoi5rile                  4 1                                            4        20
C>oe  0111  annual   1       0.5 :oau C*ooutor Hardware                        4      4     1     4     4      4                  12
Equipenent  pacage          10.0 0Oftice Earutoenct                      I                                              1         10
Equip 040  Annual            1.0 :OU0  Office Equipeent                        I         I        I I    I 
I                  Software   package           1.2  Sorvtrt Software                       I                                              1          1
License    annual            0.1  Servirl Software lic"nso/uqed                1     1      1     1         1       1              1
t                  Software   package          L12  PC Sftenre                              5                                              S          *
Liens#    annual   1         0.1 'PC Sotts4ar  lIconeouo;gradf                 5     S      5     5     S      I                   S 1
Softtare   package         1.0 0 ooks/Toeh journals                           I     I      I     I     I      I        7        70
WSalarins    s/onth          0.2  Cntor staff, 4 add staff              24    24    24    24    24    24    2'       143:        34:
4.  It nngetft hvIpeatfnt                                                                                                                               t
t -.-- -
ST/I. Con$   lientt         14.0  Short-t,re teuat TA                    7    12     6      4     I     I      1      S         174
LtILT     Con%  w/eoth      14.0  Long-tore eznAt tA                    12    20    16      *     2 I                 42:       6
LL Conault  s/ooith          1.1  ELocl ongerts                         2S    4     45    32    17                    U2        112
ILIT Folo.  s/ooeth          4.0 :Long-ttre fellowships                1    72   134   143    15    21          :4*          1.!4
SIT fellow  VIaonth          1.0  Short-tore  follusiStudy tours       IS    19    19   1D                      :     7 17      34
training    o/sath           3.0 :Local traninm                          9    16    to      9     9                   4         69 1t
EIUip5t  package            11.0 iConeutor lab (10 elacnl                1     2                                        3        41
Equip 0a0    nnual       1 1.1  140- Office Equiplent                          1     3      3     3      3     3                 24
Isoeuter   package          20.0 :Server2A aaro.are/Periphels3 S                                                        3            1
c:oeu OOi  anual   1         2.0 :0         ServerA Hardre                     0      3     3     3      3     3 I               30
Equeosnt  packago           21.0  Iquipot:Av/offtcelC  loea                    3                                        I 3       s
Equip 040U  ual              2.1 :U - Offtce Equooent                          0     3      3     3     3      3                 32
Softwnare   pckage  1       21.0 lPack:ltoks/hv "Utls/Weel lit                 3     3      3     3     3      3S     t         371
Softeare   package  1       12.5  Snerver:A Software                           3 S3  
Liconst    annual            0.9 lServoru2  Sottuare   cupgrade                0     3      3     3     3      3 s:              13
haildials  t Sread          40.0 :O furoish facilitieu:  entrs               lOO                                   Il 10
:oild 0p      Sreod          1.2  Facilities 040                              O0  lOOt  140t 100  100 to ol   *o
Salarits    alloath          0.2 :4 staff per centerlI                        34    72    72    n      n      72:   39&          71
Ooer/tccorrl Spread        30.0  oten-alary oeor costs (3 cntrnl               St   14I  1Ut   1U    lit  Ut        642:      SO3
IS. Nalth Financin                       I
*eveloapeentS Spread    100.0  Health financinag study                 0lO   0l2                                    1OOl0   1,100
S/T Follow  Ie/onth         S6.0  Health EconoAoLC/tnsurnnco            4     2     2      2     2                   12        9t 
Eanipsnt Uacuage  1         10.0  (ffice Equeisent                                                                               toI  1  l
t(si, at"  annual   I        1.0 :0    -  ffitce Equgoant                      I     I      I     I         1   1     ,           4
Coesuter   packagt           1.0  tC #Ardwart0/pripelrals                                                                 1       51
Cpu UOK  annual             t0.l  eh -Cosouter Hardnare            I           I      I     I     I      1     L                  3
Software   package           1.2  tC Softoare                            I                                              1         1
Ltcense    annual            0.1  tC Software licens/npqrude                   I      I     I     I                 1             1



- 69 -                                                           5
Page 5 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring Indicators
183U332E122**8 138135323132$|      t38 8.i$ w33tlS1.R, ,,,.n:.ssazuaasaXaus ua,          :utg :,s, u.Sgu:s:g,tSssszms:sagwagms#g,sa,.,sn.,:ga.mn.:swwwsz zz,2J
Typc       Unit t   Unit/Total:                                                  ast1bUt:ft O0antst*ttt                    Total     Total
Coeponent          of          of         st Cost           Input lescrotion                -                              - -       ---:Qty of  8ne Coot:
Input      Inout  NUS1 000)                                             1992  199q  1994  l1qq  199   1197  1998    Input  lUSt O001
:0   REGIONAL HEALTH SERVICES
:-----.-@------@-------.-.-                              :                                   :                                                  :          
1l. Reqionil Hanageoent
National Projett leolpmentation Unit
:              :       -   -~~          ~~~~---------------.------       :                                   ,                                                           S 
ST/HL Cons  s/scnth           16.0 1Preo  asttrolan/quidelines/stds:          17    23       1      5      1      1      2       50        o00
LT/HL Cons  s/month           14.0  Project sqotl4 esortsl                  1 3      48    4a    48        6      4      4      194      2.714
LL Consult  s/oonth            1.1  Praj eval/translation                      b    1:       6      A      4      4      6       48          54
LL Consult  o/uonth            1.1 :Coordinator: IPIU                         1:    12    1:    12    12    12    1:             604        95
LL Consult  o/oonth            0.8  HL Tech: t5 tr NPIU                       40    60    60    60    60    40    60            420        315
LL Consult  s/o/nth            0.4 ILL Tech: 64 tor NPIU                      48    48    48    48    48    48    48            356        126
S/T Fellow  olmonth            8.0 :Nsterplan denvl/PIU visits                 2      1                                           3         24
Training     o/sonth           3.0  Consortia devil 150 particl              100   100                                          200        400
Computer   packIge             5.0 :PC Hrdwrt:13 tor IPIU                      3                                                  3          iS
Casou 0&M  annual              0.5 :041  - Cooputer Harovare                          3      3      3      3      3      3                    9
Sottuart   package             1.2  PC Saft:03 tor NPIU                        3                                                  3           4
License     annual             0.1  PC Sottare licensu/upgraoe                        5      3      5      3      3      3                    2
Equi0ernt  package            10.0  0ffice eqp/ourn: NPIU                      oI                                                            10
Evuio 00  annual                1.0  01U  - Oftice Equasaent                          1      I      I      I      1            1             4
Venlicles   unit              20.0 :Vehicles: NPIU                             I                                                  1         20
oVeh Oi      annual            2.0 :1   - Yvenaces                                   I      I      I      I      I  1                      12
literials  7 Soread           5v.4 Ilaterails,supolies:NPIU              ;    10o:     I5   R1   15:   1s2   14:   15i:    100I: 
Consor 1u Coordination Ottices
Wielkoaolsx, Pomerania. Ciechanow:
:       -      ----- ----        ----                                               
LL Consult  a/lonth            1.1 ICoordinator: I CCOs                       36    36    3c    34    36    3O          36      252        284
LL Consult  o/menth            0.9  HL Tech: t5 tor I CCOs                 1iso   iso   iso   iso    eo    e,   iSo : 1.260                945
4L  Consult  a/menth           0.4  LL Tech: 04 for 3 CC0s                   144   144   144   144   144   14'   144   1.008               378
S/T Fellow  o/month            8.0 Ilasterplan devel/PiU visits -              6      3                                           9         72
C3souter   package             5 .0 !PC Hrdwre:t3 fcr 3 CC0s                   9                                                  9         45
Coomp  011  annual             0.5 1010 - Conouter Hardware                           9      9      9      9      9      rt:        :       27
Sottware    package            1.2 :PC Sott:U3 tor 3 CCOs                      9                                                  9          it
License    annual              0.1 :PC Software lacense/uograde                       9      9      9      9      9      9 :I
Equioment  package            10.0 :Otfice eqp/furn: 3 CC0s                    3                                                  3         s0
Emuva 01h  annual              1 .0 :00- Office Equipsent               I             3      3      3      3      3      3                  le
Vehicles   unit               20.0 IVenicles: 3 CC0s                           3                                                  3         40
Veh Olo     annual             2.0 :01h   Vehicles                                    3      3      3      3      3      3                  36
Materials  I Spread          151.2  flaterials.supolis:3 CCs                 lot   15s   Ill.:  15: 2i  1is:   Is:    100::               isl
: -------~~~~~~~~~- -- ------: --:------- --e --- --  -:
I   a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 70 -                                                1lX 5
Page 6 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring Indicators
:   T100   Unit   2Unit/Tot8l                                     :         0thIton  of 0utities                  ITotal 2  Total
C-ment             of         of      lass COat          Input Geicrption           I   --                                      -- 0t  Of -lse Cost
I                I~~neut    Ineut  :IUSsZoo 000                                     I    m i'   1    m 1990 5a  I"    I"i   19,   Inmut  101 s"1
.SS_,.,,m.,u. ............mf........ ,t8,.,  .......,.,,,,,, ...... , , .. , l,,.,,,,,,,, .............,,., .. ,S, . PS,,,  ,,.,, ....... , n 
D0.  IEIE1UL HEALtH SERVIC13 
12.  Imtrastructure Consolidation                                                                                                                             I 
Uaeisool s'eee u:Cntortia            * 
Sualdin;,  I Spread         13112 :CwtnlidzSaort-term  care facil:                 5t   20:   20:   20.  201   IS'.:   10         It 13.112 
hild 0411  I Sorad          242.2 :0UI: short-tere care tacit                     01    S:   251   45?   As1   853:            I     502
Equipment  I Spread         13554 :Ccnsolid:Sahrt-tera care equip:                      2S:   20!   20:   20:   1M':   1002.:  1U.54
Eqouo 011  I Soread        1355.4 :0h: short-term care equip                       0:    0t   25:   45?   is:    1.:               2.962
lulAdings  units             25.0  Upqrade: Pris Care Pract bldgs                 10    20    2S    25    25    12:    117   2: S
*uild 0AR  annual            0.5 :0i: PriS Care Pract bhdgs                       0    10    20 S 5    10   105                     140
Equipment  packag            1.20  Upqraoe: Prio Care Pract equip:                      30    S 25    2S    12           117      1,404
Equto0U   annual              1 L.2 :040I Pris Care Pract equtLo                   0     0      0    35    60   105                  324
I                  LTIML Cons I Spread           1213  Archlengineeriaq services                     10;   201   201   20t   20:   10':   1001t    123  2
:    Pemerania Consortia
*                  ~~~~. ..S....
Suilotnqs  t Spread          7474  Consolid:Sbort-tera care facil                 5:   20::  20?   20:   201   15;    1001t   7,74
SuLId 08h   I Spread        15!.? :06R: snort-ters care facl             0         o:    It   25:   41   65:   65:             2      343
E-u:.0ent  S Spread          7933 ;Coasolad:Short-ters care equip:                      25:   20t   20:   20:   151:   100t:   1.93P
Equ:o 01h      Soread       793.3 :011: short-term care equiop                     01    0t   25s  4t5l    51 iS::                 1.74!
Buildinqs  maits             25.0  Upgradle  Pria Care Pract bldqs                 S     t    to    10  10   to0                   1,7002
BuSld 011  annual             0.5 2011: Prim Care Pract bldgs                     0      5    20    38    48    582                   H
Equ;poent  pactaqe           12.0 2Uuqraqe: Prim Care Pract equpo                       20    18    10    10    10        fie        311
Equip 0AR  Annual             1.2 20n: Pris Care Prct equtoip                      0     0    20    l8    48    58                   17
LT/HL Cons I Soread           750  Archlengineerang services                      IO1   20:   20:   20:   20:   10?:    1001:        750D
Ciechno  Conortia S:
:   lalings  I Spreod        3459  Consolid:Shortetire care facil!                 5t   20?   201   20:   20?   155:   100o:   3.459
I                   Suild 0U1   I Spread 2        92 20U: short-term care focil    2                  01    51   251   45?    5t   835:                  l1
2                  Equipmnat  t Spread           3576  ConsaliShort-tere care  ouipl                        25:   201   20:   20:   I5:   100S    3,574
Equip 0UI  Z Spread         3 27.4  0t11: short-tero care equip       2            01    0S   25?   45t   sS   iS::            :     772
:                   Suuldings  units             23.0 :Upgrade- Prim Care Pract bIdgs                  S    10                                 15 :      37s
Iluld 0811  annual   2        0.50UI: Pris Care Pract klogs    !                 0      S    15   1    15    15         :           33
Equimeont  pacage           O120  Upgrade: Prim Carn  Pract  quvpo                      IS                                 15        I0
Equip OAK  annual             1.2 0UI: Prim Care Pract equip                       0     0    15    15    IS5 13                      n:
LTIML Cons t Soread           307 3rch/en9ineerinq serices                        10t   202   20:   201   201   10t:   1000S         307



- 71 -                                           &AMx 5
Page 7 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring Indicators
Type       Unt    unft/totaI:                                    :         Dlstrikution of Oantities              I total    total 
Coepenent   of   of 'us Cost   Input Description   .. ...........-                                                              . .....-......... . - .Qtr of la1t cost:
Inout      Inou:   (USI0001                                         1992  199   1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   Input :lUSt0001:
135532,vgwwss..shI3uazzwI.ws.wua ,    ,              , *AS533,UtSU32IS2  UR,.S32S5*5833881*88S, ,. U.*S  ,,,, , , .,, ,, 8.3.
.  REilONAL HEALTH SERVICE:
13.  Hospital A/0 Info/Accounting
*     -     _     -       -         *                 .        .         ...                                                                     _ .  2 . .. 1._ ...     
STIHL Cons  o/month          16.0  AI/0 Acct 6gtUlifiLAnAn aUdit           3    10    10       8     3      3      3       40       tO:
LL Consult  a/oonth           5.0  Local TA:Acct mqt/project oval    1.5   7.5          t      4     3      I      1       a 2      530
SIT Fellow  alsonth           8.0 :A/D, Ac:t manigseent                  1.5     9      9      6                           21       204
training     s/month          3.0  A/D, Acdt management                  1.5    16    18    12                            48:       143
*                  Computer   paciaqe           14.0  Re1ion: Coop Hard/Softwarse                    2                                         2         X  '
ComPu CAN  annual             1.4  Region Comouter system 04"                    0      2      2      2     2      2                  1'4'
Comouter   package           47.0  Voivod: Coop Hard/Softwre r3                                1                           10       470
Coepu OI   Annual             4.7 :Volvod Conputer systes 04I                    0      3      9    10    10    10               1  197
*                  Cooputer   package           46.5  Seall Hasp- Coop Hard/SaftiarS                13    13    12                            38      1      274
Coopu 04&  annual             4.7  Sel/losp Compute' SYSm:e   CIA                0    13   Z    38    38    38:              :     712
Cosputer   package           71.0  Noiue Hosp0  Cooe Hard/Sot twr                7             t                           21     1,491
Coseu OUI  annual             7.1 :Red/Hosp Casouter system 04   1              0      7    15    21    21    21    1               04
CoOputer   package           84.0 :Pilot Lrge Hcso:Comp Hard/Soft:         I                                                1        04
Cosou 0CA   annual             .4 :Pilot Lr; Hoso: CatO  syst CAR                 1     1      1      1     1      1                  s
Coa3uter   package           84.0  Large Hosp: Case Hard/Software:               6      7      5                           l8     1,512:
CorneU OUI  annual            38.4  Lrg/Hosp Cooouter systes OUt                 0      6    13    18       8    i                  413 1
Software   package  1         2.4 IRegton:Iooks/Teci journals    23                     3      3     3      3      3       ta         43:
Software   Pactale  :         3.6 2Votvod:8ooks/Teh journals                     3      9    10    10                      32       115
S:otware   paCkage            2.0 :Seall Hoso 9ooks/Tecn journals:               13    26    38    38                    115       Uno
Softwart   package  1         2.0 :Red Hos:Books/Tech journals  1                9    17    23    23                       72       144
Sottuare   package            3.0 :Large Hoso:ocks/Tsch journals:          I     7    14    19    19                      40    1t10
Salaries    a/month           0.2 :Regional staff                              288   289   2f8   288   298   288   1,728            344
Salaries    e/month           0.2  Voivod staff                                 1      54     0    60    60    40        312:        i1
Salaries    o month           0.2 'Staff: Stall hosiital                        79   162   229   229   228   229   1,152:           230:
Salaries    i/month           0.2 :Staff: Readus hospLtal                 12    54   102   138   Is    138   138         7 720      144
Salaries    o/month           0.2 :Staff: Large nasostal                  12    84   Iti   229   228   228   229   1,174            235
: - --:--- . --- - - - - : - t : :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-72 -                                             Aex S
Page 8 of 8
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule and Montoring Indicators
tyoe      Unit  lUnitITotal                                     '           tnot et ofuanttes                  2 total 2TotalI
Coponeent         of         of    llase Cost          Input 0Oscroption          I--                                     - --.Oty of  east cost.
Input     Input  11USOOOI :                                        z2    1      194  1993  199s  Itti I91tt     Input :1uSsosool:
tO. IESIOHL HEALTH SERVICES              I          *                                                                                         '          2
14. Pharmaceutical letnitrn                                                           t 
STIHL Cons  s/oonth         16.0  Druq Regul/mgot/enal             I     I    10    10      S      3     3              SS3       401
L                  UL  Consult  e/month         1.1  Drug Regull get/enal                   I      A     7      a     3      3     3       2          33
S/T Feilos  u/month           .0  Drug eoutenng                        1.3    16    17    IZ                            47        t2
Traininq    c/month          S 3.0 :Druq sonitor:ng                    1.5    16    1e    12                            46       143
Casouter   Package          14.0 2Reginn: Coop Hard/Software                                                            *3         42
Coopu 0"  annualI            1.4  tReqion: Cosouter system OH                   O     3     3      3     3      3:                 21:
CooPuter   Package          14.1 2Voivad! Cato Hard/Software                    3            It 10                                141
Cnonu 0/n  annual            1.4 1Vainod Cooouter yste   in  I                  0     3     9    10    10    10                    59
Csoputer   Pckage            B.5  Suall Hoso: ConS Hard/Software 13    LI I,                                           36:      323
Coeepsu OI annual            0.9  Solleosq Cououter systeo Oatn                 0    I3    2S    38   3S    36                    13u
Ceeputer   package           8.  : Pilot Rid NHsp:Ceeo Hard/Saftw        2                                               2         17
Campu Oca   annual           0.9  Pilot ted hsp: Coop syst CAt 2                2     2     2      2     2      2                  10
ComPuter   package           6.5  ftediu  Hosp: Casp Hard/SfttAr                7           6                           21        1I:
Coopu OAt  anual             0.9 ted/Hosp Cosputer systes Ot0                   0     7    15    21    21    21                    72:
Cooputer   package          12.6 :Pilot Lrge Haso:Coep Hard/Saft         I                                               1         13
Copoo 0ai  annuai            1.3 :Pilot Lrg Hospi Coeo syste  0'                      1      1     !      1     1                   ft
Comouter   package          12.6 :Large Hoso: Coop Hard/Softuare                6     7     3                        Il          227
Compu Ofi   annual           1.3 SLrglHosp Computer systes 0421                 0     A    13    1e    1o    1 I                  92 
Equipaent  packap   :       10.0 'Office eqp: Regional office                   33                                                 30 
Equip OU1  annual   I        1.0 lOat - Office Equipment           I            0           3      3     3      3                   s15
Softre   Package  L          6.0 Megionilooks/Tech journals                     3     3     3      3     3      3 I     lS       108
SSoftare   Package  I        4.0    ivod:Mooks/Tecn journals                    3         9    10    10t                32        192
Software   package  2        1.0  Smalt Hospilooks/TKfh journals               13    26    36    36 11                          115
Software   package  L        1.0 :Red Hosposooks/Tech journals  2        2      9    17    23    23                     74        74
IfSoftare   oackage  2       2.5 Uirge Hosp:looks/Tach journal)s         1      7    14    19    It                     60       ISO
Salaries    */month 2        0.2 :Rtgisnal staff                   1    12    12    12    12    12    12    12         642        17:
2                  Salaries    e/eonth          0.2  uvo1vd staff                     I    36   106   120   120   120   120   120         744        1492
'~~~~~~~~~ 2                                                                :                                              :    :              :
13.  Naterials/Technology Na1agement  I                                               '                                                                  2
IST/LL Cons  a/eontIh       16.0 2Equip/technoamatls manageet   I        2      4     2     2      2                    12       192
2                  U  Consult a/month 2         1.1 2lquip/techno/matls manaqet   I    12    1          12    12    12                     66         742
L                  SIT Felteu  a/oonth I        5.0 :Study tours 14):Eqp/satis   at'    11               I         S   S                   364      268
t                  Training   t Spread           15  f atercals/Tech oget             1           251   231   231   251                   IOOT        1s
I                  Computer   package  1       20.0 2Servvr2a:10 pilot hosep  center       11                                              11       2202
L                  Co pu ODi   annual           2.0  Oat  * Ceoputer Hardware         2           11    11    11    11    11    11                   132:
Ceomputer   packaqe                            3.0  PC Hardware: 110 pilot hspl  1    10                                            2     10         30
I                  Ce pu 0411  nnual   I        0.5 :611 - Computer Hardware          I           10     10       10     10     10    10              30
t                  fComputet   Package  I       5.0  PC Hardarel/feriph ISO hesp)  1              40    40'                                to:      4
toapu 0111 annual            0.5 3WI   - Ceoputer Hardware         I                 40    f0    SO    90    10                  I O
Venicles   package  I       40.0 2taintenanc  vehicles (10 hospl        10t                                             10       400
Equip Oait  annual   I       4.0 :taf - tait"nace vehicle%                     10    10    10    10    10    10: 2               240
Equipment  package  2       10.0  0ffice Equipment                       4                                        :      4        40
:                  Equip O11  annual   :        1.0 :01l  - Office Equipment          I            4     4      4     4     4      4                 24
Software   package           1.3  Equtpsent managet softwaren           11    40    40                                           137
License    annual            0.1 :Software licenselupgrade         t           11    S1    91   it       l    92                  432
Software   package  2        1.5  taterials esnaget software             4                         4              :               12:
License    annual            0.1 :Software lncesse/apgrade                      4     4     4      4     *      *                   3
:                  Softtwre   Package           1.2 :PC Sottware                            tL    40    40                                 9         t19
License    annual            0.1  FC Sottware licenselugrade                  911    S1    91    *1    *1    9  2
Software   Package  2       10.0 :looks/Tech journals                   11    11    11    11    11    11    11i         77       70
.. . .--.--.......---*--: --:



-  73-                             Annexl    6
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement
Percentage
Loan Disbursement (Uss stn)                       Difference
.------  ................ Sector Disbursement Project
Calendar       Fiscal                          Cunutat        Profile           Over
Project  ---------a--- -----------                  Cumul- as X of  ----------. -----  Regional
Year     Year Semester  Year Semster Periodic    tive    Total   Regional Sankuide   Prof1le
.. . ..........  ....................... .... ............ ..................  ................  ........................... ...... ..............
Year 1    1992    1st    1992    2nd         O.S a/      0.5      -                    -          -
2nd    1993    1st        1.0 a/      1.5      1X         3K        3X        -2X
Year 2    1993    1st              2nd       8.0 b/      9.5      7X          6X       6X         1X +
2nd    1994    1st       12.8        22.3     17X        10X       10K         7X .
Year 3    1994    1st              2nd      14.8        37.1     29X         14X      14X        15X +
2nd    1995    1st       15.3       52.4      40X        22K       18K        18X +
Year 4    1995    1st              2nd      15.0        67.4     S2K        30K       26K        22X .
2nd    1996    1st       14.4       81.8      63X        38K       34X       25X +
Year 5    1996    1st              2nd      10.5        92.3     71K        46X       46X        25X .
2nd    1997    1st       10.0       102.3     79K        58K       54K       21K +
Year 6    1997    1st              2nd       7.0       109.3     84K        66K       62K        18. +
2nd    1998    1st        6.8       116.1     89K        74K       74K        15K +
Year 7    1998    1st             2nd        5.0       121.1     93K        82K       82X        11K +
2nd    1999    1st        4.9       126.0     97K        86K       90X        11X K
Year 8    1999    1st             2nd        4.0 c/   130.0    100l         94K       94K        6%
2nd    2000    1st                                       98X      100K
Year 9    2000    1st             2nd                                      100K
........ ........
Total     130.0
. .............................................................................
Source: tDRD Central operations Department
Notes : There are no comparative disbursement profiles for Poland to date.
*/ Project Preparation Facility advances
b/   Initial deposit into Special Account
c/   Closing Date: June 30, 1999



-74 -Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available on Proiect File
1.    Health System Reform Progosals, MOH, January 1990
2.    Health Sector Overview--Issues and Options, Working Paper, World Bank,
May 1990.
3.    Progress Report on Project Preparation, prepared by MOH, June 1991.
4.    Health Facilities Infrastructure Assessment of Project Regions, prepared
by Danish Health Board, June 1991.
5.    Health Services Development Prolect--Background Information on Proiect
Rezions, prepared by Danish Health Board, June 1991.
6.    Survey of Health Resources in Proiect Regions, prepared by Danish Health
Board, June 1991.
7.    Feasibility Study on a Proposed System for Monitoring of Distribution
and Collection of-Statistics on Drugs in Poland, prepared by
APOTEKSBOLAGET, June 1991.
8.    Occunational Safety and Health-Strategies and Action Plan, prepared by
C. Soutar, July 1991.
9.    Development of Health Promotion Capability, prepared by Wales Health
Promotion Authority, July 1991.
10.   Primary Health Care--Issues. Strategy and Action Plan, prepared by J.
Krister and C. Whitehouse, July 1991.
11.   Health Management Information Systems, prepared by P. Caper, July 1991.
12.   Introducing a National Health Insurance Scheme for Poland, prepared by
K. Henke, July 1991.
13.   Development of Regional Health Services (Consortia), prepared by J.
Blanpain, August 1991.
14.   Regional Health Services Planning, prepared by D. Bevan, Powys Health
Authority, September 1991.



- 75 -                          Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
15.   Implementation and Training Plans for Hospital Discharge Database,
prepared by J. Curtis, September 1991.
16.   Implementation Plan %or Cost Accounting and Admission and Discharge
Systems, prepared by Kommudata, September 1991.
17.   SuDDort for Reform of the Health Care System--Financing ProRosal,
prepared by Commission of the European Communities, September 1991.
18.   ImDlementation Plan for Technology Management, prepared by R. Morris,
October, 1991.
19.   Health Care Institutions Act (English Translation), October 1991.
20.   Proiect ODeration Manual, December 1991.



- 76 -                 Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
POLAND
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Timing          Staff Weeks         Staffing
CY1992          50 weeks            Bank resources (25 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (12 weeks)
- Implementation/operation specialist
(10 weeks)
- Other--not yet specified (3 weeks)
Supplementary technical inputs (through
bilateral/multilateral cooperation):
- Primary care (1 staff year - EC funded)
- Information systems (health management
component) (9 weeks)
- Health planning (regional health services
component) (6 weeks)
- Health economist (finance, budgeting)
(4 weeks)
- Management development specialist
(4 weeks)
CY1993          40 weeks            Bank resources (20 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (12 weeks)
- Implementation/Operation Specialist
(8 weeks)
Supplementary technical inputs (through
bilateral/multilateral cooperation):
- Public health specialist (health
promotion) (2 weeks)
- Hedical education (primary care
curriculum) (3 weeks)
- Health economist (finance/budgeting
accounting) (3 weeks)
- Information systems (automation of
hospital A/D, accounting, drug
monitoring) (8 weeks)
- Equipment specialist (2 weeks)
- Primary care (1 staff year - EC funded)



-77 -                           Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
CY1994          31 weeks            Bank resources (18 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (10 weeks)
- Implementation/Operation Specialist
(8 weeks)
Supplementary technical inputs (through
bilateral/multilateral cooperation):
- Information systems specialist (health
management component)(automation of
information systems countrywide)
(6 weeks)
- Health planner (regional health)
(5 weeks)
- Public health specialist (health
promotion/primary care components)
(2 weeks)
- Primary care (1 staff year - EC funded)
CY1995          30 weeks            Bank resources (16 weeks) of which:
Task manager (8 weeks)
- Implementation/Operation Specialist
(8 weeks)
Supplementary technical inputs (through
bilateral/multilateral cooperation):
- Public health specialist (health
promotion) (5 weeks)
- Health economist (accounting, finance,
budgeting) (3 weeks)
- Medical education (primary care
component) (3 weeks)
- Management development specialist (health
management training) (3 weeks)
- Primary care (1 staff year - EC funded)
CY1996          25 weeks            Bank resources (14 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (8 weeks)
- Implementation/operation specialist
(6 weeks)



- 78 -8
Page 3 of 3
Supplementary technical inputs (through
bilateral/multilateral cooperation):
|  Information system specialist (4 weeks)
- Health planner (regional health)
(3 weeks)
- Program evaluation specialist (2 weeks)
- Health economist (2 weeks)
CY1997          21 weeks            Bank resources (14 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (8 weeks)
- Implementation/operation specialist
6 weeks)
Supplementary technical inputs (through
bilateral/multilateral cooperation):
- Public health specialist (2 weeks)
- Health system specialist (2 weeks)
- Health economist (3 weeks)



Baltic Sea                                                           RUSSIA                    LITHUANIA
;m 9 SWUPSK                                  f                                     POLAND
'G@ X   t    2   K   v  S  SUWAWU    }            HEALTH SERVICES
(OLSZTYN                        >  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COECHIANOW HEALTH
E1]  _r rPOMERANLA HEALTH
ff          2          /     TOFUN    (  . .>-TORUN             OMZA                           -   REGION
f <                                                                                           t  W Y + a ERALYSTOK 5 |X WIELKOPOLSKI HEALTH
89t WILKOOLW                    ,                         aCECHANO  \oTROEA              
\ - Lx J WLOCLAWE    NATIONAL CAPITAL
Z 1 ->                                                       {o | PtOCK                     \_ / - VOIV ODSHIP BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
57'                                                                                      SiDC                                                    srI   m    1L 
< _ r ( ~~~~~~~~~SIERADZ RDMZ/
S ENIA C l WROCLAW                 TYUNALSKI                      {            WBL {  CHELM 
- <, X C > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BELARUS
N,~~~~~~ "o on jn p%pon                      CZSTCHW Tb          KIELCE Bo.sk dojo.r ,nonoof ,oo
5'oI       7 d.oon  OPOLE i o2 n                             TNR V              ZAOS        )
58r                                                                                                 PRZEMYSLRESOW/                               50
S KRAKOWW ( J PRTARNOW
CZECHOSLOVAKIA                                LSO-B IAA-><A                                                  UKRAINE
t    _g  NOWY ~SACZ           KROSNO     (
A k )  5~~~~~~~~~~~~0                           so  OD           150_
b lor sh_n on. ow do 71t o,pIy on rho por0 ef Tlr WooH Book G.o.. on~fg lno.7 J                                                          CD
X         5                         'F                     ^                        ^   )                    2,4-                   ^; 9~~~~8  ?  2



