Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22487
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39740)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR THE
SECANO RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION
AND
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3974-CH)
June 25, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit: Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2000)
Currency Unit = Peso (ChS)
ChSI = US$ 0.0019
US$ I - Ch$540
FISCAL YEAR
January I  -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CDL                   Local Development Council (Consejo de Desarrollo Local)
CDS                   Executive Council (Consejo Directivo Superior)
CGR                   Comptroller General (Contraloria General de la Republica)
CONAF                 National Forestry Corporation (Corporaci6n Nacional Forestal)
CONAMA                National Environmental Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de Medio Ambiente)
CSP                   Project Committee (Comisi6n Superior del Proyecto)
DR                    Directorate of Irrigation (Direcci6n de Riego)
DV                    Directorate of Roads (Direcci6n de Vialidad)
EIA                   Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO/CP                Food and Agriculture Organization-World Bank Cooperative Program
FIA                   Foundation for Agricultural Innovation (Fundaci6n para la Innovacion Agraria)
GIS                   Geographic Information System
HRB                   Basic Irrigated Hectare (Hectdrea de Riego Btisico)
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IERR                  Internal Economic Rate of Return
MNDAP                 Agricultural Development Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario)
INIA                  Agricultural Research Institute (Instituto de Investigaciones Agropecuarias)
LA                    Loan Agreement
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
MBN                   Ministry of National Property (Ministerio de Bienes Nacionales)
MIDEPLAN              Ministry of Planning (Ministerio de Planificacion y Cooperaci6n)
MINAGRI               Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio de Agricultura)
MOP                   Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de Obras Pablicas)
MTR                   Mid-Term Review
ODEPA                 Office of Agricultural Studies and Policies (Oficina de Estudios y Politicas
Agrarias)
PAM                   Municipal Support Specialist (Profesional de Apoyo Municipal)
PAV                   Off-farm Income Generating Project (Proyecto de Agregacion de Valor)
PDA                   Agricultural Development Project (Proyecto de Desarrollo Agricola)
PDE                   Off-farm Development Program (Programa de Desarrollo Extrapredial)
PED                   Strategic Development Program (Plan Estrategico de Desarrollo)
PFAP                  Program for Financing Poverty Alleviation Activities (Programa para Financiar
Actividades de Superaci6n de Pobreza)
PHRD                  Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
POA                   Annual Operating Plan (Plan Operativo Anual)
PRODECOP              Secano Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resource Management Project
(Proyecto de Desarrollo para Comunas Pobres del Secano de las VI VII y VIII
Regiones)
PTTC                  Technology Transfer and Training Program (Programa de Transferencia Tecnol6gica y
Capacitaci6n)
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
UTP                   Project Technical Unit (Unidad Tecnica del Proyecto)
QAG                   Quality Assurance Group
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Myma Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:    John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Steven Oliver



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39740)
CHILE
SECANO RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3974-CH)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              16
6. Sustainability                                                                  18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 22
9. Partner Comments                                                                24
10. Additional Information                                                         28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              40
Annex 8. Suminary of the Borrower's Report                                         42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006676                                      Project Name: SECANO AG DEV I
Team Leader: Steven Williarn Oliver                      TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SECANO AG DEV I                               L/C/TF Number: SCL-39740
CountryIDepartment: CHILE                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension; Al - Irrigation &
Drainage; AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing; AQ -
Annual Crops; VM - Natural Resources
Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/10/93                               Effective: 09/26/96           09/18/96
Appraisal:  07/15/94                                 MTR: 04/30/98             09/15/98
Approval:  01/16/96                               Closing: 11/30/2000          11/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  The Government of Chile/The Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio de Agricultura)
through its Institute for Agricultural Development (Instituto de Desarrollo
Agropecuario) and its Agriculture and Livestock Service (Servicio Agricola y
Ganadero).
Other Partners:  The Foundation for Agricultural Innovation (Fundacion para la Innovacion
Agraria) and the Ministry of National Property (Ministerio de Bienes Nacionales).
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Myma L. Alexander                        Gobind T. Nankani (Department Director)
Sector Manager:      Laura Tlaiye                              Constance Bernard (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:   Steven Oliver
ICR Primary Author:   Steven Oliver; Edgardo Floto
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1. 1   The objective of the project, as summarized in the Loan Agreement (LA), was to find reliable
solutions for the alleviation of rural poverty in the dry-land farming area of Chile known as the Secano
through the adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems, based on sound natural resource
management, and the development of off-farm income-generating activities.
3.1.2   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, Report No. 14894-CH) emphasized that rural poverty and the
degradation of natural resources are mutually-reinforcing problems and that the heterogeneity of conditions
in the Secano demands a micro-regional approach to efforts to achieve economic growth and to improve
natural resource management. The project was, therefore, designed to identify and to validate, on a pilot
scale, alternative development approaches, including their technological, social and institutional
dimensions, and to develop strategies: (a) to establish sustainable production systems and to improve
natural resource management; and (b) to expand off-farm economic activities and to improve
infrastructure, in order to promote economic growth and diversify sources of income.
3.1.3   These strategies were to be implemented to achieve the following subsidiary objectives and specific
results:
(a) the establishment of sustainable small-scale farming systems through targeted applied
research and technical assistance;
(b) the introduction of environmentally-sound forestry activities and pasture management;
(c) the regularization of land titles;
(d) the achievement of an increase in rural family incomes via: (i) increased crop yields and
diversification into higher value crops; (ii) the creation of off-farm economic activities; (iii)
enhanced off-farm employment skills; and (iv) improved infrastructure;
(e) the increased participation of beneficiaries and municipal authorities in development planning,
management and execution; and
(f) the strengthening of the government's technical capacity for natural resource management.
3.1.4   The main text of the SAR states erroneously that the project was intended to benefit about 2,400
rural families farming more than 50,000 ha of land, located in eight micro-regions of the VI, VII and VIII
Regions of Chile. However, from other parts of the SAR it is clear that the total number of rural families
in the eight selected micro-regions was 2,425 (which were potentially reachable through the project) and
that the number of farm-family beneficiaries projected to be reached was 1,100 with a total of about 22,000
ha of land. This target of 1,100 farm-families was used in the specification of the performance indicators
and also formed the basis for the economic analysis of the project.
3.1.5   Taking into account this observation, the objectives of the project were clear, albeit rather
qualitative. The objectives were also realistic because, for the most part, established and tested
mechanisms were to be used to reach the target beneficiaries; the innovative aspects of the project involved
the way in which these mechanisms were combined to focus for the first time on the specific, related
- 2 -



problems of poverty and resource management in the Secano. The short time-frame of the project was a
limitation on its ability to realize the full benefits of the interventions and investments, because provoking
change in the practices of the naturally risk-averse rural poor is not something that is achieved quickly.
The project, designed for a five-year implementation period, began implementation in November 1995
although the Loan did not become effective until September 1996; before the Loan's Closing Date in
November 2000, the government had taken the decision to keep the project functioning at least through
2001. The relative importance of the objectives, for the rural sector in particular and for the country in
general, lay in the need to prove that the mechanisms could make a significant impact on poverty and
natural resource degradation in the context of a pilot operation, which was intended to pave the way for a
much larger program directed towards the Secano region as a whole.
3.1.6   There is no reference in the SAR to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) or to Bank/government
strategy. The Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MROP, Report No. P-6676-CH),
however, stated that the project was consistent with the agreement between the Government of Chile and
the Bank to emphasize the provision of continued Bank technical assistance and advisory services
associated with a reduced need for resource transfers, as contained in the CAS document discussed at the
Board on May 9, 1995. The MROP also emphasized that the project specifically addressed three issues
identified in the CAS; the direct alleviation of poverty, an improvement in the ability to protect natural
resources, and decentralization.
3.1.7   The project was not particularly demanding for the main implementing agency, the Agricultural
Development Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario - INDAP) or for the institutions that played
subsidiary roles in the project in the sub-components of agricultural research, the geographic information
system, and land titling. It was a moderately complex operation because it operated simultaneously in a
number of related activities and in eight geographical areas. The project contained elements both of risk
and of uncertainty. Climatic risks are ever-present in the Secano region, and the serious drought which
occurred in 1998-1999 affected not only the agricultural development activities of the project but also the
research activities, which were conducted mainly under production conditions. Uncertainty affected the
project in a number of ways, including: (a) the extent to which potential beneficiaries would associate
themselves with the project's activities and how they would group together in the diversification
sub-projects; (b) the development of market outlets for products; and (c) the availability of sub-surface
water resources for the development of small-scale irrigation sub-projects.
3.1.8  The project was very responsive to the Borrower's circumstances and development priorities; the
areas and beneficiaries targeted under the project are representative of the poorest segment of the rural
population of Chile, which had not responded markedly in the past to broader programs aimed at rural
development. With a renewed emphasis on the part of the govermment to address rural poverty, the
specific problems of the Secano region required detailed attention through project intervention.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1   The objectives of the project were not revised during its implementation.
- 3 -



3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The SAR and Schedule 2 of the LA describe seven components of the project. The projected costs
shown here include price and physical contingency provisions.
Component 1 - Natural Resource Management and Sustainable Agricultural Development
(US$14.1 million, 40.3% of total costs), including:
- the establishment of small irrigation schemes;
- the introduction of improved rain-fed farming techniques and on-farm erosion control;
- the introduction of improvements in pasture and livestock production;
- forestry development; and
- the incorporation of natural resource management in the Secano into the Geographic Information System
(GIS) of the Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio de Agricultura - MINAGRI).
Component 2 - Off-Farm Poverty AUleviation
(US$7.55 million, 21.5% of total costs), including:
- the establishment of off-farm economic activities, including agro-industries, cottage industry and
handicrafts; and
- the improvement of rural infrastructure, including rural roads and market facilities.
Component 3 - Support Services
(US$6.75 million, 19.3% of total costs), including:
- carrying out adaptive research in agriculture and forestry; and
- technology transfer to small farmers.
Component 4 - Technical Assistance
(US$4.5 million, 12.9% of total costs), including:
- the provision of technical assistance services;
- institutional strengthening; and
- training.
Component 5 - Land Title Regularization
- the regularization of property rights for 1190 small farmers.
Component 6 - Studies
(US$0.85 million, 2.4% of total costs), including:
- an assessment of the renewable natural resources of the Secano, including a hydro-geological survey;
- the preparation of guidelines for natural resource protection; and
- the analysis of agricultural marketing opportunities and constraints.
Component 7 - The Project Technical Unit
(US$1.25 million, 3.6% of total costs), including:
- staff; vehicles, office, computer and communication equipment; and operating costs.
- 4 -



3.3.2   Although it is defined as a component of the project, the regularization of land titles was, in fact, to
be financed by the Ministry of National Property (Ministerio de Bienes Nacionales - MBN) as part of its
(then-existing) program within the Bank-supported Small Farmer Services Project (Ln. 3473-CH). As a
result, the detailed cost estimates of the SAR show only six components. The Project Cost Summary of the
SAR reduces this further, to five components, by incorporating the "Studies" component under the"
Technical Assistance" component.
3.3.3  The components were closely related to the achievement of the objectives of the project. They
were well within the capacity of the implementing agencies. The project as a whole took closely into
account the lessons learned from earlier projects financed by the Bank in the rural sector of Chile.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1   The components were not revised during project implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1   The project's preparation and appraisal predate the introduction of the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) process by the Bank. The project was very consistent with the government's priorities and specific
key issues of the CAS (see para. 3.1.6 above). One of the main concerns of the first administration of the
newly-installed democratic government was the high percentage of the population living in poverty, and
poverty alleviation became one of the central priorities of government in the 1990s. Rural poverty was
given special attention because the depth and intensity of poverty in the rural areas was much higher that in
the urban areas. The project became one of the key programs to test alternative ways of tackling rural
poverty.
3.5.2   With the support of a Japanese PHRD grant, a thorough project preparation exercise with strong
beneficiaries' participation was carried out in the Secano areas of Regions V to X. This preparation
exercise provided the basis for the final design of the project.
3.5.3   The extended period which elapsed between the initial identification of the project (in September
1992) and its presentation to the Board (on January 16, 1996) is explained by the change of government in
Chile in March 1994. Although project pre-appraisal took place in January 1994, the new Administration
which took office in March 1994 had a different view from its predecessor concerning the proposed
institutional arrangements for project implementation. Its main objection was to the independent
implementation structure that had been agreed with the previous government, and it argued strongly in
favor of INDAP playing a central role in project implementation; this position finally prevailed in
negotiations, and is reflected in the LA.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  The project was intended to benefit about 1,100 small farm families with approximately 22,000 ha
of land (representing 45% of the total of 2,425 small farmers in the eight selected micro-regions), through
the achievement of the following six subsidiary objectives or specific results:
(a) enhancing natural resource management by the establishment of sustainable small farming systems
- 5 -



via targeted applied research and technical assistance;
(b) advancing environmentally-sound forestry activities and pasture management;
(c) supporting the regularization of land titles;
(d) increasing rural family incomes via: (i) increased crop yields and diversification into higher-value
crops; (ii) the creation of additional off-farm income and employment generating economic activities; (iii)
enhanced off-farm employment skills; and (iv) improved infrastructure;
(e) increasing the participation of project beneficiaries and municipal authorities in development
planning, management and implementation; and
(f) strengthening the government's technical capacity for natural resource management.
4.1.2   The project benefited 2,059 farners on 22,000 ha and considerably exceeded the target. The
overall outcome of the project in terms of these subsidiary objectives/specific results is considered to have
been satisfactory. There is no definition in the SAR of any order of priorities among the subsidiary
objectives described above, and each of them can be seen as playing its part in the achievement of the
overall objective of the project, that of simultaneously attacking rural poverty and the degradation of
natural resources.
4.1.3   Enhancing natural resource management:  Project activities through the firms (empresas - see
paragraph 4.2.18 below) responsible for the implementation of the agricultural development sub-projects at
the local level have increased awareness among farmers of the need to conserve soils, and have promoted
not only specific soil conservation investments (such as the control of erosion gullies and land terracing)
but also the introduction of sustainable cultural practices (such as cultivation following the lines of contour
and, to a limited extent, zero tillage practices), with particular emphasis in irrigated crops and vineyards.
4.1.4  Forestry and pasture management: The project supported some expansion in forestation and
promoted the adoption of improved natural pasture management throughout the project area, as well as the
introduction of improved pastures.
4.1.5   Regularization of land titles: The target of 1,190 farmers was comfortably exceeded by the
MBN. In the eight municipalities (comunas) in which the selected micro-regions are located, a total of
1,644 titles was regularized in the four-year period 1997-2000.
4.1.6  Increasing rural family incomes: The project design recognized that economic growth at the
level of the micro-regions and municipalities and an improved articulation with the market economy is the
only basis for a sustainable increase in income and for a possible exit from poverty. The project was
based, essentially, on a one-time injection of capital in many forms (e.g., physical infrastructure, on-farm
investment, associated productive investment, and the transfer of technical knowledge) at the community
and individual farm level, to allow a boost into a higher orbit of economic activity. No targets were set for
increased family incomes. The measurement of what was achieved by the project is contained in the
periodic evaluations, and in particular the final evaluation of April 2001, carried out by the University of
Chile. The average total income per beneficiary in 2000 was Ch$2. 16 million; compared to the base-line
measurement of Ch$1.96 million, this represents an increase of 10.3%. There was considerable variation
between the eight micro-regions, where percentage changes in total income varied between 35.4% and
- 6 -



-14.8%. However, the project was designed to achieve results over the long term, and the evaluation was
based on a twenty-year projection. In the short term, there was an increase in costs and a decrease in total
gross margin at the level of the farm, which is explained by the investment nature of much of the
expenditure (e.g., maintenance of trees, etc.) which is not reflected yet in an increase in production and
sales. The projection of total income shows that it is expected to increase quickly to around Ch$2.8
million, and increase of over 40% with respect to the base-line estimate. From the sample of 709
beneficiaries analyzed, 346 of them (49%) are expected to earn an internal rate of return on their farm-level
projects of more than 10%.
4.1.7  Increasing participation: Participation by the beneficiaries was achieved at three levels:
(a) through the design of on-farm development sub-projects (Proyectos de Desarrollo Agricola - PDA)
and off-farm group investment sub-projects (Proyectos de Agregaci6n de Valor - PAV);
(b) through the Local Development Councils (Consejo de Desarrollo Local - CDL), in which
beneficiaries' representatives participated in the definition of investment priorities for the area and in the
selection of sub-projects to be financed under the project; and
(c) the opinions of farmers were incorporated in the conclusions and recornmendations of the Mid-Term
Review and the Final Evaluation.
4.1.8  Strengthening capacity for natural resource management: The project made a modest
contribution to the government's capacity in this area. The improvements in the Geographic Information
System (GIS) achieved under the project (see paragraph 4.2.4) for the micro-catchment areas have
indicated that the most relevant use of the GIS is for regional planning.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1   The objectives of the project were concentrated in the categories of physical objectives and
institutional development. There were no objectives in the categories of macro-economic or sectoral
policy, nor did the project have financial objectives. The design of the project was appropriate for the
achievement of the objectives, but the performance indicators for judging the achievement of the objectives
were not well quantified in the SAR. These were, in fact, limited to two: the number of farmers to be
reached and the area to be put under irrigation. The other so-called "performance indicators" were simply
measures of projected expenditures to be made in implementing the project's separate activities, and would
be more accurately described as "indicators of progress".
Component 1 - Natural Resource Management and Sustainable Agricultural Development:
4.2.2  The main purpose of this component was to improve natural resource management by reversing
soil degradation and establishing sustainable production systems in the eight selected micro-regions. (N.B.
Seven micro-regions were identified during the project's preparation phase: these were Navidad, La Estrella
and Lolol, in Region VI; Curepto and Peluhue, in Region VII; and Coelemu and Portezuelo-Trehuaco, in
Region VIII. During project implementation, Portezuelo and Trehuaco, two neighboring micro-regions
located in different municipalities, were treated as separate micro-regions to facilitate project
implementation.)
4.2.3  The description of this component in the SAR included indicative figures of land-use targets that
could be achieved, including: the development of 1,300 ha under small irrigation schemes; the introduction
- 7 -



of improved rain-fed farming and on-farm erosion control techniques on 3,000 ha of land (including 1,800
ha of vineyards); the promotion of improved pastures and livestock production systems, by supporting
improved natural pasture management on 5,000 ha and the establishment of 3,000 ha of improved pastures;
and the promotion of forestry development, including 2,800 ha of silvo-pastoral development, 3,000 ha of
forestation and 90 ha of woodland renovation. Although only the first of these targets was subsequently
incorporated as a performance indicator, in retrospect the definition of indicative targets looks out of place
in a project that was, by definition, demand-driven and in which, therefore, future actions were unknown.
In practice, these targets and the data associated with them were broad estimates used as the basis for the
calculation of project costs and for the economic analysis.
4.2.4  To support overall natural resource management in the Secano, the project strengthened the
Ministry of Agriculture's Geographical Information System (GIS) by including data specifically related to
the Secano region. Existing digital data conceming topographic and thematic mapping was systematically
compiled and analyzed by the Agriculture and Livestock Service (Servicio Agricola y Ganadero - SAG)
for each of the micro-regions and included in the GIS. Maps of soil erosion susceptibility were made
available to the firms and to the Municipal Support Professionals (Profesional de Apoyo Municipal -
PAM) working in support of the municipalities. However, these maps became available only at the end of
1998, considerably after the Strategic Development Plans (Planes Estrategico de Desarrollo - PEDs) had
been prepared for each of the micro-regions. In addition, the parts of the micro-catchment areas most at
risk had been identified by field survey in the preparation of the PEDs. The most relevant use of the GIS
is for regional planning, because in the relatively small areas of the micro-regions the use of traditional land
survey methods in providing the essential measurements for the preparation of the PEDs is quicker. In
1999 and 2000, eight exercises have been carried out using the GIS in order to identify areas with potential
for forestry, bee-keeping, and olive production, as well as to carry out agro-climatic zoning and to identify
suitable locations for the small-scale accumulation of run-off flows of water.
4.2.5 According to the Final Evaluation, an estimated 1,460 ha of small irrigation schemes were developed
with project financial and technical assistance. This exceeds the 1,300 ha estimated at appraisal, although
preliminary figures indicate that the irrigable area is not being fully utilized yet, due to the slow pace at
which new production technologies can be transferred to small farmers. However, the whole of the
irrigable area is expected to come under full production within the next two to three years. The total
investment in this component was about US$ 4.4 million, or 98% of the amount estimated at appraisal.
4.2.6  From the broader perspective of natural resources management, project interventions reached
2,059 farmers with just over 22,000 ha. There were various degrees of intervention, ranging from the
development of small irrigation schemes (as indicated above) to the planting of fruit trees and forestation,
from improved management of natural pasture to simple advice on how best to utilize land. The SAR
estimates were that the project would benefit 1,100 farmers with 22,000 ha. The number of beneficiaries
actually reached by the project was more than 50% higher than this estimate, although the total area
involved was similar to that estimated at appraisal, indicating that the average size of farms of poor
producers in the Secano is smaller than that estimated during design.
4.2.7  Contrary to project design, the development strategy adopted by the consulting firms (empresas -
see below) responsible for implementation of this component was to give priority to investments in small
irrigation schemes to produce higher-value crops (e.g., vegetables, fruits, berries) to attract poor farmers to
the project, even if this meant that investment and actions directed to the development of a production
system for the whole farm, with emphasis on soil conservation and natural resource management, which
have longer-term retums, were delayed. Nevertheless, the project managed to reduce the area under
traditional crops (usually cultivated without much regard for soil conservation) by 12%, or 800 ha.
- 8 -



Additionally, the project promoted the forestation of some 1,800 ha, the development of about 1,200 ha of
fruit trees, and the establishment of some 600 ha of improved pastures. During the process, the project
created a widespread awareness among farmers about the need for soil conservation and the adoption of
sustainable production systems, which resulted in an overall improvement in management of the 5,500 ha
of natural pastures in the project area. Investment in these activities represented US$ 7.3 million, or 78%
of the amount ear-marked for this component at appraisal.
Component 2 - Off-farm Poverty Alleviation:
4.2.8  Experience in Chile and in other parts of Latin America indicates that the development of
sustainable agricultural production systems alone is not sufficient to alleviate rural poverty, mainly because
not all of the rural poor own (or otherwise have access to) a sufficient area of good quality land to generate
an adequate income. This component operated within the geographical boundaries of the municipalities in
which the eight micro-regions are located, and was designed to finance the development of off-farm
income-generating activities and improvements in infrastructure (mainly rural feeder roads and marketing
facilities) in order to diversify income sources and boost regional development. Following the project's
design, about US$ 5.0 million was ear-marked for off-farm activities and US$ 2.55 million for the
improvement of infrastructure.
4.2.9   Off-farm income generating activities. The project financed 186 sub-projects from a much
larger number of potential sub-projects submitted by beneficiaries for financing which were submitted to a
simple selection process. The Local Development Council (Consejo de Desarrollo Local - CDL)
analyzed the proposals and defined the investment priorities. The potential sub-projects were ranked and
submitted to the Project Technical Unit (Unidad T&enica del Proyecto - UTP) for final approval and
financing. The total investment allocated to these sub-projects was US$ 3.6 million and benefited some
1,688 poor rural families. Beneficiaries contributed about US$0.9 million, or about 25% of the total
investment in these sub-projects.
4.2.10 About 27% of the selected sub-projects failed, and were no longer in operation at the time of
preparation of this ICR and a further 21% did not obtain adequate returns to their investment. Although
working with rural poor, with low levels of education and a lack of organization, involves a high risk in this
type of activity, the main cause of failure seems to have been simply that of poor sub-project design and
weak ex ante assessment of their financial and economic viability, indicating a weakness in the assessment
of project proposals and selection criteria on the part of the UTP. This issue was raised in several
supervision missions, but does not seem to have been corrected, as indicated by the fact that the quality of
sub-project proposals does not appear to show any improvement over time. The surviving sub-projects,
which include a wide range of activities (e.g., agricultural equipment services, bakeries, the preparation of
fruit conserves, mushroom drying, plant and trees nurseries, and flour mills) reportedly resulted in positive
net present values, indicating that they are financially viable and seem to be sustainable enterprises. Only
about US$ 3.6 million, or 60% of the total resources ear-marked for this type of investment at appraisal,
was actually executed, indicating the difficulties involved not only in selecting feasible proposals for these
sub-projects but also in finding groups of potential beneficiaries willing to work together in poor rural
areas.
4.2.11 Rural infrastructure. The implementation of this component started in 1997. During that year,
the project financed improvements in rural roads in Portezuelo, Trehuaco, Coelemu and Lolol, with a total
investment of US$ 469,000 (Ch$ 200 million). After the first year, the project entered into agreements
with the Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de Obras Ptiblicas - MOP) and several municipalities to
-9-



implement its program of rural feeder road improvements, through joint financing and with the priorities
being defined by beneficiaries through the CDLs. Total investment by the project in feeder roads was
US$1.2 million, but the actual investment in the project area was slightly larger because of the
contributions of the MOP, the municipalities, and beneficiaries. MOP's contribution was about
US$58,000 (Ch$30 million) for roads in La Estrella and Navidad; the municipalities of Pelluhue, Curepto,
Portezuelo, Trehuaco and Coelemu contributed about US$10,000 (Ch$5 million) for road improvements in
their areas. beneficiaries' contributions were in the form of labor and has not been quantified. Some 35
communities, or about 6,600 people, benefited from these road improvements. Total project contribution
to rural feeder roads improvement, however, was just under 60% of what had been envisaged at appraisal,
probably the result of the lack of expertise within the UTP to handle this type of investment.
4.2.12 As part of the project's effort to improve marketing systems for small farmers, six sets of market
facilities were built (two in Navidad, and one each in La Estrella, Curepto, Coelemu, and Portezuelo)
during 1997-1999. However, only two of these (Coelemu and Portezuelo) entered into operation. The
total investment in market infrastructure was US$375,000. The main reasons behind this low rate of
utilization seem to be the lack of (or poor) organization of potential users, some legal problems (in the case
of Navidad) and, generally, the lack of proper coordination with municipal authorities. In the case of
Navidad, the poor quality of the feasibility study (which should have foreseen the principal constraints and
the risks, and should have questioned the viability of the proposal) explains the lack of success of the
market. Again, this points to weak technical supervision and selection procedures.
Component 3 - Support Services:
4.2.13 The component included two sub-components: (a) adaptive agricultural research; and (b) the
transfer of adapted technology to small farmers. Adaptive agricultural research was intended to generate
and validate crop, livestock and forestry technology specifically relevant to the small farmers of the Secano
region and their production systems. Research activities were carried out through a process of competitive
selection of proposals. INDAP contracted the Foundation for Agricultural Innovation (Fundaci6n para la
Innovaci6n Agraria - FIA), a decentralized agency of the Ministry of Agriculture, to administer the
sub-component. The first stage of the process involved the preparation by FIA of the technical bases for
the competitive selection process (concurso) followed by a Request for Proposals, the evaluation and
selection of responsive relevant proposals, and the formalization of contracts with the respective successful
organizations, which included universities, foundations and empresas. The second stage was the technical
and financial supervision by FIA of the individual research activities.
4.2.14 There were two separate rounds of selection during the project. The first, in 1996, was directed to
the whole range of anticipated research themes and was oriented towards the presentation of proposals
grouped into programs; it yielded thirteen proposed programs (made up of thirty-four proposals), of which
only four programs made up of ten projects were selected, all directed towards forestry research and
distributed throughout the VI, VII and VIII Regions. After an evaluation of the results of the first round,
the technical bases were modified to encourage single research projects because the technical capacity of
many of the institutions was insufficient to allow them to work on whole programs.
4.2.15 The second round of selection was carried out in 1997, and was again open to proposals for the
whole range of research themes. A total of thirty-nine research proposals was received, of which eighteen
were approved but only 16 were carried out, two bidders being unable to fulfill specific requirements set
out by the Inter-Institutional Committee of INDAP-FIA.
4.2.16 The research projects came under the technical and administrative supervision of FIA, and this
- 10-



implied not only a control on the part of FIA but also technical cooperation between FIA and each
implementing institution. INDAP transferred the financial resources to FIA which, in turn, disbursed
funds to each institution according to the agreed plan. All of the research projects ended in September
2000, but the process of diffusion of results, adjusting and publishing of final reports, etc., continued until
November 2000. The final financial reports were submitted to FIA by the end of CY 2000. For each
research project, a small Completion Committee (Comite de Cierre) was established, and a workshop held
to present the results.
4.2.17 The drought of 1998-1999 had a significant negative impact on much of the research, as if to
emphasize once more the critical role played by scarce water resources in the Secano. Of particular value
was the high degree of commitment shown by individual producers in support of the research activities.
Three important broad results were achieved. In the first place, an important effort was made to
systematize the existing results of research and make them available to farmers. Second, there was an
introduction of new animal and plant species, of which medicinal plants were of considerable interest.
Third, there was an introduction and validation of new technology, with significant work done on
traditional crops, resulting in an increase in productivity and reductions in costs of production.
4.2.18 The sub-component of technology transfer adapted to small farmer needs, with emphasis on
natural resources management (US$ 2.3. million), was implemented by INDAP which, through competitive
bidding, contracted agencies loosely defined as firms (empresas), a term which includes consulting firms,
universities, and NGOs. The firms worked with project beneficiaries as a group in each of the selected
micro-regions to prepare an overall Strategic Plan (Plan Estrategico de Desarrollo - PED) for the
micro-region, and then assisted individual farmers with the preparation and implementation of Agricultural
Development Projects (Proyectos de Desarrollo Agricola - PDAs) aimed at sustainable farm production
systems. Seven firms were selected in 1995 to implement the project in the eight micro-regions.
Unfortunately, the selection process and its results were the subject of legal challenge by one of the firms,
with the result that the preparation and implementation of the PEDs and the PDAs which made up the
agricultural development program was delayed by about one year.
4.2.19 During project implementation, the quality of the technical assistance provided to farmers showed
large variations, ranging from very good and committed firms to one that had to be dismissed for poor
services. However, even among the more successful firms there was a tendency to give only a low priority
to natural resources management; this undermined the project's strategy, which was to provide short-term
returns (through improvements in production) as an incentive to farmers to participate in the project. The
absence, in many cases, of technical back-stopping facilities was a serious limitation for these firms, which
had to deal with a wide spectrum of crops and problems for which they did not necessarily have the right
expertise. In the absence of a performance-linked payment system to these firms, technical supervision
became perhaps the single most important element to guarantee adequate delivery of services, and the lack
of technical supervision on the part of the UTP contributed to the sometimes poor performance of these
firms. At appraisal, cost estimates for this component were US$ 2.3 million, but actual expenditures
under the project were close to US$ 5.0 million. Although cost overruns did occur, the difference can be
explained mainly by the larger number of beneficiaries attended by the project (as described in paragraph
4.2.6).
Component 4 - Technical Assistance:
4.2.20 This component provided funds for the specialized technical assistance services required for the
implementation of the various components (US$ 2.0 million), institutional strengthening for municipalities
and beneficiaries' organizations (US$ 1.5 million), and training for project beneficiaries, the PAMs, and
- 11 -



the firms (US$ 1.0 million).
4.2.21 Resources ear-marked for Specialized Technical Assistance were used to finance technical
assistance to improve the software for the monitoring and evaluation system, prepare the Project Impact
Evaluation, internal auditing and technical assistance to assess the viability of PDP and irrigation
development sub-projects. Only about US$159,000 (Ch$80.1 million), or about 8% of the US$2 million
estimated at appraisal, were utilized for specialized technical assistance. Most of the remaining funds
were used to finance technical assistance to farmers.
4.2.22 In Institutional Strengthening and Training, the project supported municipalities, farmers'
organizations, the CDLs, and local technical schools. At the level of municipalities, institutional
strengthening involved a series of seminars and courses on computing, human resources management,
project preparation, administrative procedures and organization. (N.B. Some of the activities executed
under the Training sub-component of the project were also geared to institutional strengthening, so it is
difficult to assess separately the impact of both lines of activity.) In addition, the project financed one
administrative support specialist (Profesional de Apoyo Municipal - PAM) for each of the eight
municipalities involved in project execution, to assist the municipalities in all of the activities related to the
project. The impact that these PAMs had on the performance of their respective municipalities varied
considerably. In general, although the impact was positive, it would have been greater if the PAMs had
been placed in the administrative structure of the municipalities themselves, rather than acting as outsiders
with a direct line of authority to the UTP, although this would probably have been to the detriment of the
pace of implementation of the project.
4.2.23 The strengthening of farmers' organizations was implemented through the construction or
rehabilitation of meeting places for their members, technical assistance in organization and administration,
and technical assistance to organize farmers for the marketing of their produce. About 44 institutions and
32 farmers' organizations, representing approximately 1,500 farmers, were strengthened under the project.
4.2.24 The most important project activity in institutional development and strengthening was the
establishment of the CDLs, through which beneficiaries participated in project implementation and
submitted investment proposals to the UTP for financing. Initially, the debates and decisions of the CDLs
were strongly influenced by the regional representatives of INDAP (who were members of the CDLs) but
they gradually acquired more autonomy as their members, and in particular the representatives of farmers'
organizations, became more experienced and confident. In the later years of project implementation, the
CDLs became real supervisors of project activities, with members regularly visiting sub-projects to see the
progress of implementation.
4.2.25 Another area developed by the project, which had not been foreseen in the SAR, was the technical
and financial support provided to the local agricultural technical schools. The project supported the
establishment of demonstration plots and technical assistance in sustainable cultural practices, which
greatly benefited students and created employment links for them. Technical schools were supported by
the project in Coelemu, Portezuelo, Lolol, La Estrella and Navidad.
4.2.26 In total, 163 institutional strengthening projects and training courses were executed under the
project, benefiting some 4400 producers and municipal staff. Of these, 86 projects were directly related to
institutional strengthening and benefited 69 institutions and farmers' organizations the rest of the courses
were on technical aspects related to sustainable agricultural production and production diversification
sub-projects. The total expenditure on institutional strengthening and training was close to US$ 2.5
million, which is almost exactly the amount ear-marked for this component at appraisal.
- 12-



Component 5 - Land Title Regularization:
4.2.27 The responsibility for land titling in Chile falls under the MBN. The SAR emphasized the impact
which the lack of titles has among small farmers, particularly in the Secano region. The informal land
tenure arrangements that result from a lack of title limit small farmers' access to forestry subsidies, water
rights, subsidies for small-sized irrigation investments, housing subsidies and credit. In the eight
micro-regions, 50% of farmers were believed to have land titling problems and these were concentrated
among the poorest farmers. The titling component was intended to resolve the titling problems of 1,190
beneficiaries (that is, 85% of the total of 1,400 farmers in the project area estimated to have land titling
problems) by the end of the project's second year.
4.2.28 At the time of appraisal of the project, the government was implementing the Small Farmer
Services Project with the support of the Bank (Ln. 3473-CH). This project contained a component of land
titling, and rather than provide additional support in this area it was decided to accommodate the needs of
the Secano project within the scope of the Small Farmer Services Project. The rationale for such an
arrangement seems to have been the need to avoid duplication of Bank resources and efforts in the same
activity in the same geographical area.
4.2.29 The component was implemented under an agreement (convenio) between INDAP and the MBN.
The project, through the UTP, provided the MBN with detailed lists of the farmers in the micro-regions
with problem titles; the lists were consolidated at the level of the Area Agencies of INDAP and passed to
the Regional Secretariats (SEREMIs) of the MBN. Although it had been anticipated that this
regularization would be completed in the first two years of the project, in practice the results were
distributed over the period 1997-2000, as follows:
1997       1998       1999       2000       Total
Navidad                       8          16         22         86          132
La Estrella                  28           5          2          3          38
Lolol                         10         29          5         75          119
Curepto                      25           -         40         54          119
Pelluhue                     40           2         89         55         186
Portezuelo                   144          1          -          -         145
Trehuaco                     210          3         29        136         378
Coelemu                      188           -         69       270         527
Total                        653         56        256        679        1.644
- 13-



Component 6 - Studies:
4.2.30 The project provided resources to carry out studies in three subjects:
a) to assess the Secano region's renewable natural resources, including a hydro-geological survey to
identify surface and groundwater sources;
b) to draft guidelines and legislative measures for natural resources protection within the jurisdiction of
MINAGRI; and
c) to analyze agricultural marketing constraints and options.
4.2.31     The terms of reference (TOR) for the first study, presented in the SAR, were limited to a
hydro-geological study and did not include other "renewable" natural resources (as did the text of the SAR
and the LA in describing the project). The TOR called for "complete and systematic hydro-geological
study of the area of the Secano in the VI, VII, and VIII Regions" but the funding available (US$600,000)
was not sufficient to do detailed work over such a large area. The UTP, after lengthy and detailed
discussions with specialized consultants and after extended consideration of an innovative modeling
approach presented by a North American university, decided to carry out a more traditional type of study
covering 15 small catchment areas. A local consulting firm was selected; the study is being carried out
and the results are expected to be ready at the end of 2001. In addition to this study, the project financed
an assessment of the impact of the availability of water resources in poverty alleviation in the Secano
region; the final report is expected at the end of June 2001.
4.2.32     The preparation of guidelines and legislative measures for natural resource protection was
considered important at the time of appraisal, but it became largely superfluous once the government had
issued the Environmental Law and created the National Environment Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del
Medio Ambiente - CONAMA). Two studies were carried out on environmental and natural resources
protection issues. The first attempted to identify the best mechanism to stream-line environmental
assessment into sub-project design and preparation, and the second attempted to assess the best instruments
to promote sustainable natural resources management in the Secano area.
4.2.33     Three marketing studies for agricultural production of project beneficiaries and one feasibility
study for the construction of a market place in Pelluhue were financed under the project. In addition, two
studies, one on social capital development under the Secano project and one on the limitations of the
current institutional arrangements for project execution, were carried under the project. About US$ 0.86
million were spent in the execution of this component, which is just over the US$ 0.85 million ear-marked
at appraisal for this activity.
Component 7 - Project Technical Unit:
4.2.34 To support the implementation of this component, the project financed the establishment of a small
Project Technical Unit (the Unidad Tecnica del Proyecto - UTP), including personnel, vehicles, office
equipment and operating costs (US$ 1.25 million). As described elsewhere in this report, the UTP was
originally designed to support the inter-ministerial Executive Council in the implementation of the project,
and only after the project was appraised was it transformed into part of INDAP, albeit outside the main
structure of the institution. Its position within INDAP inevitably reduced its freedom of action compared
to the original design. The accounting system designed for the project allowed costs to be identified and
- 14 -



audited (something that had proved impossible in the earlier Small Farmer Services Project, implemented
by INDAP). The UTP is a small unit, and on occasions its staff were over-stretched, particularly when
individuals had to combine their regional supervision roles with other responsibilities in the unit's office in
Santiago. The competitive selection, supervision and contract renewal of the firms responsible for
implementing the project at the level of the micro-regions were efficiently carried. out.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  Preliminary estimates provided by the Final Evaluation of the project carried out by the
Universidad de Chile indicate that the project has an overall economic rate of return (ERR) of just over 10
percent; that is slightly above the opportunity cost of capital in Chile as estimated by the Ministry of
Planning (Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Cooperacion - MIDEPLAN). However, the rate of return
estimates did not make any allowance for shadow pricing of key inputs nor for the deduction of taxes from
project costs; therefore, the actual ERR to the project's investment is likely to be higher than 10 percent,
once these allowances are incorporated into the estimates. The largest component (Natural Resource
Management and Sustainable Agricultural Development) had an ERR of about 10.4 percent, and a Net
Present Value (NPV) of about US$0.4 million. The off-farm income-generating activities were estimated
to have an ERR of 24.3 percent and a NPV of US$ 1.8 million. Both of these estimates of ERR were
made with the same assumptions regarding shadow prices and taxes as the overall rate of return.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1   No financial rate of return was estimated for the project or for any of its components or activities.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1   As described elsewhere, the original project design was based on the concept of an autonomous
project implementing unit, but during the course of loan processing the govermnent (following a change of
administration) took the decision to incorporate the unit (the UTP) into INDAP as part of its effort to
strengthen the institutions associated with the Ministry of Agriculture. It was agreed that this arrangement
would be evaluated ex post as part of the pilot project. The incorporation of the UTP into INDAP gave it
the status of effectively depending directly from INDAP's chief executive, and it operated within INDAP's
administrative procedures but outside of the functional structure of the institution. Inevitably, the UTP,
and hence the project, could not operate in the agile and flexible manner that had been the objective sought
in project design. At the same time, it operated in parallel with the regional structure of INDAP which
caused a certain amount of friction caused by the over-lap or duplication of responsibilities; this,
fortunately, was limited by the fact that the project operated in only a few well-defined geographical areas.
The modus operandi and instruments of the project were also very different from those of the main
structure of INDAP. In summary, it can be concluded that the UTP was able to operate effectively but not
optimally. Its excessively small staff meant that some tasks inevitably had to receive a lower priority than
they should; the development of the monitoring and evaluation system (see paragraph 5.3.1) is probably the
best example of this effect.
- 15-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1   The outcome of the project was affected by three elements outside the control of the government or
the implementing agency. First, the severe drought that affected the country in 1998-1999 had a negative
impact on overall agricultural production and, in particular, on the performance of the small farmer
production systems promoted by the project. As a result, the output of the agricultural production systems
promoted by the project did not have as good a result as expected.
5.1.2  Second, there was a design problem that could be identified only with the benefit of hindsight. The
heterogeneous nature of rural poverty demanded a thorough knowledge of the socioeconomic and
environmental conditions of the project's micro-regions before its components could be efficiently
implemented. However, the period of time available to the firms responsible for project implementation on
the ground to prepare their development strategies was too short. A longer period of time should have
been given to allow them to acquaint themselves with their respective project areas, their limitations and
potential. As it was, pressures prevailed to start executing investment proposals as soon as possible and to
use available budgetary resources, which resulted in: (a) sub-projects of less-than-adequate quality being
implemented during the first year; and (b) in a delay in the implementation of a proper participatory
sub-project preparation mechanism, which could only (successfully) begin in the second year.
5.1.3   The third element, which could also be identified only with the benefit of hindsight, refers to the
length of the implementation period, which was too short; this could be classified also as a design fault,
although it would be more appropriate to consider it as a "lesson learned". It is clear now that
implementation of poverty alleviation projects with strong beneficiary participation requires a much longer
period of time than the 4.5 years allowed under the project. Poor farmers require a long period of time to
become convinced of the benefits of the project's proposals, to overcome a natural mistrust of outside
initiatives, and to gain the necessary confidence that the proposals can be (and eventually will be)
successfully implemented. Whilst recognizing that the project would have benefited from a longer
implementation period to meet all its targets, it would be unreasonable to propose pilot projects that need
more than four years for their implementation if the results and lessons learned are to have any impact on
Government policies and programs. As a result, some of shortcomings of the project, in terms of its
targets and their partial achievement, were unavoidable within the given time framework.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1   The experience of project implementation indicates that the project preparation team was right to
conclude that implementation should not have been in the hands of INDAP, but rather with an independent
body outside the restrictions of central government rules and regulations. The internal administrative
regulations and procedures that characterized INDAP's operations introduced undue rigidities to project
implementation, particularly in a project that, by definition, required agile decision-making to disburse a
large number of small amounts of money to satisfy the requirements of the sub-projects. Additionally, the
need to allocate and disburse the budgetary resources within the calendar (fiscal) year proved to be another
major limitation for two reasons. The calendar year does not coincide with the agricultural year and,
therefore, the investment cycle did not fit the budgetary period. Typically, sub-projects would start their
implementation in one calendar year and would run into the next year without the possibility of transferring
between years the resources allocated to them.
- 16 -



5.2.2  Stable macro-economic policy and an open, market-oriented economy have been the hall-marks of
Chile's remarkable performance for the past two decades. Policies towards the rural sector and, in
particular, those aimed at improving the conditions of the rural poor remained stable over the life of the
project; in the latter part of 2000, following the change in administration, there began a debate over the
appropriate institutional structure and policy tools necessary to make a deep impact on rural poverty. This
did not affect the project, other than the fact that its life was extended by one year. The government's
commitment to the project remained strong throughout its implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1   Several factors which affected project implementation could have been addressed by the
implementing agency (INDAP) and by the UTP in particular. First, the lack of an adequate monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system prevented the UTP from following project implementation closely and taking
the appropriate measures to correct deficiencies as they occurred. The need for an M&E system was
clearly identified in the SAR and included in the LA as a dated covenant. The first two years of the
project's implementation period were wasted; the selection and contracting of the consulting firm that had
been hired to develop the M&E system was slow, and the consulting firm was then unable to complete the
assignment. The UTP was reluctant to cancel the contract (as it eventually did), even though it was
already clear after the first year that the consulting firm was unlikely ever to be able to deliver the M&E
system. However, once that firm's contract had been cancelled, not enough resources were allocated to
complete the design of the system in a short period of time. In practice, the development of the M&E
system was a never a priority with the UTP and, as a result, activities that were falling behind schedule in
their implementation or failing to meet their objectives were not detected in a timely manner.
5.3.2   The technical supervision of the UTP over the firms responsible for the implementation of
sub-projects was limited, which resulted frequently in poor quality of sub-project design and a lack of
thorough analysis of the technical, economic and social viability of proposals. The subsequent failure of
some of the sub-projects was the result of this short-coming; however, it should be recognized that even the
best designed and supervised sub-projects can fail under the conditions prevailing in the Secano. The
marketing prospects for products that resulted from project-financed activities in most cases was only
superficially analyzed. Apart from several marketing studies financed by the project, investment proposals
did not include an in-depth study on the marketing possibilities of their respective products. It has been
argued that part of the problem of poor technical supervision was the result of the small size of the staff of
the UTP. The original project design was for a small but much stronger UTP. During negotiations,
however, the Ministry of Finance argued in favor of a small unit but did not agree to a salary scale for staff
that was different from that in the public sector. Therefore, only relatively junior professionals could be
hired who, although full of enthusiasm, commitment and energy, had limited managerial experience.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1   There were no changes made in the financing arrangements during the implementation of the
project. The actual costs of the project were 88.2% of those estimated at appraisal as a result of
under-spending in the two main investment components. It is important to emphasize that these two
components were "demand-driven" and that, in practice, the project exceeded the target of projected
beneficiaries.
- 17-



Components                Appraisal Estimate          Actual Implemented Cost
(US$ '009)                   (US$ '000)
1. Natural Resource Management          14,100.0                      12,030.0
and Sustainable Agricultural
Development
2. Off-farm Poverty Alleviation          7,550.0                       5,195.0
3. Support Services                      6,747.0                       8,091.0
4. Technical Assistance                  4,500.4                       2,622.0
5. Land Title Regularization
6. Studies                                 849.8                         861.0
7. Project Technical Unit     _           1,252.8                      2,081.0
Total                                   35,000.0                      30,880.0
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The sustainability of the project depends entirely on the government's future approach to the
problem of rural poverty and natural resource management. The project was a pilot program which, in
general terms, was satisfactory in its implementation and results. The project has been intensively
evaluated on several occasions; whilst there are a number of key areas in project design which would be
adjusted if the transfornation were to be made to a larger project, the basic concepts are considered to have
been shown as viable and effective during the life of the pilot project.
6.1.2  The government decided in late-2000 to extend the project for at least a year, until December 2001,
funded from the regular budget of 1NDAP under the same rules and conditions established for the
Bank-financed period. The government is currently discussing a rural poverty alleviation program that
will cover at least the whole of the Secano region, if not the whole of the country. Preliminary indications
are that, in the design of this new program, lessons learned from the implementation of the Secano Pilot
Project have been of paramount importance.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 At this stage, as described above, the decision has not yet been taken by the government concerning
the possible expansion of the pilot project to cover a wider geographical area. The monitoring and
evaluation system put in place will continue to be maintained for as long as the pilot project continues to
function.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  The background to the project was a series of discussions on poverty issues held between the
government and several Bank/FAO-CP missions that visited Chile during 1992 in connection with the
preparation and appraisal of the Irrigation Development Project (subsequently supported by the Bank
- 18-



through its Loan No. 3528-CH; Implementation Completion Report No. 20065, of February 23, 2000).
A short document containing concepts and describing components of a possible project was sent to the
government by the Bank in May 1992.
7.1.2  Project identification began in September 1992, and the Bank was supported by the FAO-CP
from the beginning. At first, there was close involvement with the Directorate of Irrigation (Direcci6n de
Riego - DR) of the Ministry of Public Works and with the National Forestry Corporation (Corporaci6n
Nacional Forestal - CONAF) in addition to the main counterpart, the Under-Secretary of Agriculture of
the Ministry of Agriculture. The priority areas had not yet been defined, although the V to VIII
Administrative Regions of Chile were the main candidates. Based on this mission, a request was prepared
for a Japanese PHRD grant. From the beginning, several major constraints to increasing production by
small farmers were clearly identified; these included the poor natural resource base, the lack of appropriate
production technology, the emphasis given to subsistence crops and short planning horizons, risk aversion
concerning agricultural credit, and the lack of infrastructure and basic social services. The
mutually-reinforcing nature of poverty and natural resource degradation was emphasized, as well as the
need to work with all land-holders at the catchment-area level. It is of interest to note that the main
components of the eventual project were already identified at this stage of the project cycle.
7.1.3  A follow-up identification mission was carried out in January 1993, based on a draft Project Brief
prepared by FAO-CP in November 1992. There was general agreement on the adoption of a pilot-scale
approach to the project, but concern was expressed about the appropriate institutional framework for
implementation; a decentralized structure was favored, with a strong role for the municipalities (comunas).
The importance was emphasized of selecting micro-regions that were representative of the diverse
agro-ecological zones and wide range of socio-economic conditions of the Secano; at the same time, given
the poverty-alleviation objectives, it was felt that the poorest comunas should be given priority. It was
expected that a successful outcome to the pilot would be followed by a much larger second-phase project
with greater geographical coverage of the Secano.
7.1.4  For project preparation, the GOC was awarded a Japanese PHRD grant, the Agreement for
which was signed on May 28, 1993. The original Closing Date of the grant, April 30, 1994, was extended
four times, ultimately until May 31, 1996. The grant was executed by the Bank. A preparation team was
established under the coordination of the Under-Secretary of Agriculture and began work in early March
1993. The institutional arrangements for irnplementation were yet to be defined; a guiding principle was
established to limit the number of project activities (components) and participating institutions to the
minimum necessary to complete the objectives; consistency with the government's decentralization
proposals and a strong role for the municipalities were central to the discussion, as was a strong
participatory role for beneficiaries. Final preparation was expected to be completed at the end of 1993.
7.1.5  The Initial Executive Project Summary (IEPS) was discussed in February 1993. Preparation
missions were carried out in May, July and September 1993, by both Bank and FAO-CP staff, and in late
November 1993 a joint Bank and FAO-CP team prepared a draft SAR in Rome.
7.1.6  The pre-appraisal of the project was carried out in January 1994. There was an early general
agreement on the project concept and its components, as set out in the draft SAR. The identification of
representative micro-regions was seen as a means to identify alternative development strategies tailored to
the specific agro-ecological characteristics of each area and to the specific "survival strategies" of different
types of producers; each micro-region was to be considered as a pilot project. It was recognized, however,
that the then-existing government would change in March 1994 and, therefore, that the proposed project
should be discussed with the new authorities before proceeding further with loan processing; it was agreed
- 19-



that this would best be achieved in the context of the appraisal mission, set for April 1994. Informally, the
incoming authorities made it clear that they were in broad agreement with the proposed project. At this
stage, the project was intended to be implemented under an Inter-Ministerial Council with the main
responsibility lying with the Ministry of Agriculture, through its sub-secretariat of Agriculture, assisted by
a project executing unit. The natural resource management and agricultural development activities were to
be implemented by firmns (empresas) working closely with the beneficiaries; this itself was a novel pilot
strategy. The project was seen as having significant environmental benefits as part of its objective. The
project was also seen at this stage as having specific interventions for women and youth. The final
institutional arrangements were left until appraisal, and so was the issue of the level of cost recovery to be
adopted for the sub-projects that later came to be known as off-farm poverty alleviation or added-value
sub-projects.
7.1.7  The Final Executive Project Summary was presented in March 1994. A follow-up mnission to the
pre-appraisal was carried out in April 1994. The new administration emphasized its strong support for the
project, its objectives and proposed components. However, a priority of the Minister of Agriculture was
to strengthen the Ministry and its affiliated institutions, and the previously-designed institutional structure
of the project, which put policy-making in the hands of the Inter-Ministerial Committee but implementation
under an autonomous technical team, was diametrically opposed to that. It was, therefore, agreed that
INDAP, the strongest critic of the previous institutional design, would play a major role in implementation
and that this would also be analyzed as part of the pilot experience. There were considerable differences
between the "agreements" reached during this mission and the institutional arrangements eventually arrived
at.
7.1.8  The appraisal mission was carried out in July 1994. Issues conceming the project's
implementation and its institutional structure were at the fore-front of the discussions. The changes
introduced to allow the participation of INDAP in project implementation were felt to increase the
managerial complexity of the project but not to affect the achievement of the project's results and
objectives. The UTP was expected to be a dependency of the inter-ministerial Executive Council (the
Consejo Directivo Superior - CDS) with significant autonomy in project implementation. The issue of
cost-recovery from beneficiaries for some investment sub-project expenditures was still under discussion at
this stage, as was the management of a significant part of the project's financial resources by FIA. At this
stage, negotiations were expected to take place in early December 1994.
7.1.9   At negotiations (which took place in November 1995), the CDS was replaced by a Project
Commission (Comite Superior de Proyecto - CSP) to be chaired by the National Director of INDAP; the
UTP effectively came under the direct control of INDAP and the transformation of the project's
implementing unit, from an independent entity responding to a multiplicity of agencies through the CDS to
an integral part of INDAP, was complete.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1   The head of the UTP was appointed in late 1995 (before negotiations), and the project's required
budget allocation for 1996 was included in the Budget Law sent to Congress. Although the Loan did not
become effective until September 1996, the implementation of the project began in practical terms from
early 1996. The PHRD grant was extended, for the fourth time, until May 1996, to allow for the
completion of the final version of the Implementation Manual. Bank supervision missions took place at
six-month intervals; field visits to the micro-regions were made on a rotational basis during the supervision
missions,and each micro-region was visited at least twice between mid-1996 and mid-2000. These
supervision missions were supported by FAO/CP staff who had been involved with the project since its
- 20 -



identification, and this - associated with only one change in Task Manager - provided excellent continuity.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1  The Bank's overall performance is considered to have been satisfactory. The identification of the
project focused clearly on two closely related issues, poverty and resource degradation, in a
poorly-endowed part of Chile where little progress had been achieved against poverty through earlier
project initiatives. From the beginning, an effort was made to seek innovative solutions and to test them in
a pilot program for eventual wider replication. Good use was made of technical support from FAO/CP
and technical assistance for preparation through a Japanese PHRD grant. The shift in institutional
approach that accompanied the change in administration in early 1994 delayed the original schedule; the
changes in implementation structure clearly represented a shift away from the Bank's preferred "first best"
solution, but the arrangement agreed upon was a workable compromise. Supervision has been regular and
consistent.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  The identification and early stages of preparation of the project were marked by the government's
evident wish to include a wide range of agencies in the discussions and to ensure that the diagnosis of
problems and the identification of possible solutions should include as much participation by potential
beneficiaries as possible. An early decision was made to focus on the poorest municipalities. The
preparation team, funded from the PHRD grant, was made up of experienced professionals who worked
closely with the government, Bank and FAO/CP representatives. Given the capability of the
administrative units in the Government of Chile, it is surprising to note that the grant was executed by the
Bank.
7.4.2  The design of the project was fundamentally based on the concept of private sector provision of
technical assistance to beneficiaries, both farmers and participants in the off-farm income-generating
sub-projects. This delegation of responsibility to the private sector was pioneered in Chile, mainly via
INDAP, and the evidence of experience gained in the implementation of this project is that the concept is
sound, given that the firms involved, with one exception, were able to carry out the task.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  The overall macro-economic and sectoral policy framework was sound and was conducive to
expanded private investment and economic growth, which certainly had positive effects on the project's
performance. Given the high priority that the government attached to the solution of the problems of the
poorest segment of the rural population of Chile, its commitment to the project was never in doubt.
Counterpart funding was not a constraint to the implementation of the project. However, the appointment
of a more senior management team would have contributed to a smoother project implementation,
particularly regarding monitoring and evaluation and technical supervision of the executing agencies of the
various components. Dialogue between the government and the Bank was always constructive and
positive.
- 21 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.2  The UTP was deliberately kept small by the management of INDAP, and on occasions the
demands place upon it were excessive for the size of its staff who were required to combine regional
management responsibility (with frequent travelling to and within the project area) with thematic
responsibilities in the UTP headquarters in Santiago. The financial management of the project was
effective, with separate accounts being kept for the project (something which had proved beyond the
capacity of INDAP in the case of the Small Farmer Services Project). The UTP was able to respond
effectively to the issues raised by the auditor (the Contraloria General de la Reptublica - CGR) in the
annual audits of project accounts. Several relatively small delays were experienced in supplying audit
reports to the Bank by the stipulated date; these were caused by the pressure of work in the CGR and were
not under the control of the UTP. The difficulties in establishing a proper monitoring and evaluation
system have been described elsewhere in this report; although the UTP was let down by the consultants
hired to prepare the system, the UTP itself did not treat the issue with the urgency that it deserved, in large
part as a result of the (sometimes excessive) demands made upon the unit in the day-to-day operation of the
project. In general, Loan Agreement covenants were complied with and procurement followed the Bank's
guidelines.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  The overall rating is considered to have been satisfactory.
S. Lessons Learned
8.1   In the implementation of the project, a number of important lessons have been learned or
reinforced. These include:
(a)    The need for an approach to rural poverty using multiple instruments. The project ratified the
validity of the proposal to tackle poverty through an improvement in both agricultural and non-agricultural
activities.
(b)    The development of non-agricultural activities needs to be based on detailed feasibility studies,
especially concerning the marketing of output which should be incorporated into the analysis from the
earliest stage of identification and preparation.
(c)    Sub-project proposals presented for financing should be subject to strict selection criteria which
puts emphasis on the quality of the analysis of the technical, economic and social viability of the proposals.
For both on-farm and off-farm sub-projects, provision should be made for technical and managerial
assistance at least until the sub-project reaches full development (this is an inherent weakness of a pilot
project with a short implementation period). If not, these sub-projects have a high risk of failure.
(d)    An integrated approach must be made to farm development. Land degradation is frequently a key
factor explaining poverty among small farmers; the problems must be approached from the perspective of
the farn as a whole, rather than from that of individual crops, and sustainable production systems must be
defined and introduced according to the farm's capabilities.
- 22 -



(e)    The tendency in this pilot project was to concentrate on-farm development efforts on those aspects
of the production system likely to produce short-term benefits, to the detriment of natural resource
conservation activities that have longer-term returns. While it is understandable that small farmers will be
more interested in the short-ternm benefits, it became clear during project implementation that, in those cases
where an integrated approach was discussed with farmers from an early stage of project design,
conservation activities could be implemented alongside those aimed at more intensive crop and livestock
production.
(f)    The project ratified the Chilean experience of the provision of extension and technical assistance
services through the private sector. There are several important caveats, however:
(i) The pilot project contracted out to firms the provision of technical assistance, but the
supervision of the firms was supposed to come from the client (i.e., the beneficiaries, mainly small and poor
farmers) and the UTP. In reality, these farmers are hardly in a position to question the quality of the
services provided, and usually only complained when promised goods and equipment were not delivered.
As a result, the technical supervision of the firms was solely in the hands of the UTP, and weaknesses in
the UTP in this area were translated into weak supervision and reduced project results.
(ii) The firms tended to hire generalists who were then faced, on many occasions, with specialized
problems. If they did not have access to technical back-stopping, the results were likely to be less than
satisfactory.
(iii) Unless the firms are paid through a performance-linked system, the results will tend to be less
than fully satisfactory even if they operate under strict technical supervision.
(iv) The evidence supports assertions that extension services are more efficiently provided by
private sector agents, but it must be recognized that the provision of these services, to a
geographically-dispersed clientele, is not low-cost.
(v) The frequency of visits to farmers by those providing technical assistance should not be less
than once per month.
(g)    Even though a competitive approach was used for the allocation of funding for research, this does
not guarantee the "cost-effectiveness" of the research activities themselves.
(h)    Whilst the importance of participation by all project beneficiaries and agents is not in doubt, the
forms of inter-action, participation and institutional relationships are crucial; "second-best" solutions are
often the only workable compromise.
(i)    The requirement for a project M & E system is once again emphasized, particularly in the context
of a pilot operation. Whilst it would be onerous to insist on an ex ante establishment of the M & E system
(as a condition of loan effectiveness, for example), when the system is not brought into operation early in
the project's life the implications can be serious. Arguably, a proper M & E system on inputs, outputs and
results is of equal importance, from the project management point of view, to an accounting system.
- 23 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
[N.B. This Section is a direct translation of the document "Comentarios al Borrador del Informe Final de
Ejecuci6n" provided by INDAP in June 2001 - see Annex 7, document #17.]
9.1    Text Reference: Section 2. Principal Performance Ratings
Institutional Development Impact: Modest
We believe that, even when the Project has not generated significant changes in the institutional
aspects of INDAP, the fact that the project has been extended for 2001 and that resources are being
requested for 2002 (with an expansion planned to four new comunas) would permit a higher ranking (than
,'modest").
It should be considered that it is not yet possible to evaluate this aspect, because INDAP has not
defined fully its policy with respect to rural poverty and experience with the issue is currently being
analyzed. These arguments are expressed in paragraph 6.1.2 of the ICR and are not consistent with the
classification (of "modest") assigned.
9.2    Text Reference: Paragraph 4.1.6
Results/Increase in Family Income
It should be explained that an increase in family income is achieved in the year 2010 and that this
happens because agricultural activities are being undertaken which reach their productive potential beyond
the closing date of the project. The evaluation of the impact of the project estimated an increase in income
to date of 10.3% (without isolating the effects of market and climate mentioned in paragraph 5.1.1). In
addition, it estimates that incomes will increase by about 50% by 2010, which was defined by the project
on preparing the Logical Framework of the Project in 1998.
9.3    Text Reference: Paragraph 4.2.2
Results of the Natural Resource Management and Sustainable Agricultural Development Component
We believe that it is relevant to point out that during the development of the project and to achieve
the objectives of this component the strategy was defined to give priority to those investments in
income-generating activities above those merely concerned with the protection of natural resources, with
the proviso that all income-generating activities supported should be implemented in an
environmentally-sustainable manner. This approach was taken in the conviction that a better adoption of
new technology and a reduction in those crops and agricultural practices that are responsible for soil
degradation would be achieved to the extent that farmers recognize that the investments are aimed at
overcoming their poverty.
During the project, the objectives of this component were given an order of priority and specificity,
moving from the management of natural resources and the establishment of sustainable agricultural
- 24 -



systems to the generation of income using sustainable practices.
9.4    Text Reference: Paragraph 4.2.7
It is stated that the empresas gave priority to the generation of income in the short term rather than
the long term, the investments in irrigation being considered as part of the short-term strategy. This is not
fully correct, given that most of the irrigation is being used to develop fruit production which will generate
income over the long tern.
This paragraph seems to suggest that investment for short-term income generation has no positive
effect in terms of soil conservation and that investments in soil conservation are implicitly generators of
income in the long term.
It seems to us to be more correct to say that the empresas opted to implement the strategies
described (in 9.3) above; that is to say, they gave priority to the generation of income and therefore
concentrated investment in irrigation because, whether with short or long-term crops, this is the most
profitable option for the small farmer. This was achieved by relegating to second priority those
investments in conservation production methods of the dry-land crops and those purely for soil
conservation.
The fact that the cultivated area under traditional crops was reduced by 12%, even though a large
part of the land planted to fruit trees is not yet generating income, is an indicator that in the long term the
strategy leads to a substitution of those crops most detrimental to the soil. This is so without dismissing
the possibility that more emphasis could have been placed on activities and farm plans that would permit
the achievement of better results in soil conservation.
9..5   TextReference: Paragraph4.2.10
Results in the Component of Projects of Value Added
The figure of 27% of PVAs (off-farm income generating projects) does not correspond to the
proportion of failed projects, according to the Evaluation Impact Report, but rather to the proportion of
projects that have not generated any income to date. However, the same report projected that, after careful
examination, about 10% of these projects have a poor outlook for success.
It is a simplification to attribute as the main cause of failure of these projects the weaknesses of the
UTP in the ex ante evaluation of the project proposals. In practice, this problem has been recognized since
the Mid-Term Review of the project, and the PVAs have been revised by the Universidad de Chile without
achieving any significantly better results. Among other causes of equal importance are the following:
*      The difficulty in finding profitable projects of low risk, given the limited management experience of
the           participants, poor market access, and the lack of productive resources.
*      The reduced period available for the identification of alternatives, training of participants,
establishment of            groups and carrying out investments.
*      The shortage of professional staff in several of the areas to identify and promote projects.
*      The shortage of staff in the UTP and the lack of a mechanism to contract short-term consultants.
- 25 -



9.6    Text Reference: Paragraph 4.2.19
Results of the Component of Support Services
The argument is not clear concerning the effect of the limited emphasis given by the empresas to
the natural resources objectives on the general strategy of the project. Nor is it clear on what basis the
statement is made that the empresas performed poorly, given that the goals were met in terms of coverage
and increase in income.
9.7    Text Reference: Paragraph 4.2.22
Results in the Component of Institutional Strengthening and Training
We disagree with the statement that the impacts of the project would have been greater if the
PAMs had been incorporated into the structure of the municipalities. In such a case, the UTP would not
have been able to count on staff to implement the project or to establish a team with motivation and a
technical program improved by feed-back from the experiences in the field. On the other hand, this would
have simply added to the bureaucratic structures of the municipalities and making use of resources even
less agile.
9.8    Text Reference: Paragraph 4.22.34
Results of the UTP Component
We share the conclusion that the small size of the UTP affected the results, but it is important to
emphasize that the UTP has always been over-loaded by the number and diversity of the tasks expected of
it. The difficulties and delays in implementation began in 1996, when the UTP had to dedicate itself
simultaneously to implement the project and to define the operational aspects of the different components.
At that point the institutional structure for implementation was drastically altered, from a private sector
entity to INDAP itself
It was an error in design to suppose that all of the administrative operations would be carried out
without cost by the Area Offices of INDAP. In practice, this project involved more than a duplication in
the volume of operations for all the Area Offices involved and generated many operational difficulties.
Only in 2001 was the project able to hire an additional six professional staff. The shortage of staff with
administrative responsibility made impossible the design of a structure of operation based on the formal
delegation of responsibility to the local level.
9.9    Text Reference: Paragraph 5.2.1
Principal factors Affecting the Implementation and the Results: Factors generally subject to
Government control
Although it would have been possible to be more efficient implementing the project through a
private corporation, it is probable that such an alternative would have strengthened the public
institutionality and more problems would have existed to replicate the project with the generation of"
parallelism" with INDAP and other public sector bodies. In practice, having implemented the project
through an independent project unit in INDAP was already difficult requiring a permanent effort of
- 26 -



coordination. To avoid problems, the regional and local management structure of INDAP was formally
brought into decision-making concerning the project.
Project management through a corporation would have avoided the legal restrictions which INDAP
has, such as being restricted to working with farmers of less than 12 basic irrigated hectares (hecteireas de
riego basico - HRB) and solely in agricultural activities, allowing in some cases to achieve a greater
impact with the strategies of watershed management because through the incorporation of larger farmers
with better management capabilities the possibilities of success would have increased.
9.10   Text Reference: Paragraph 5.3.1
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
The late implementation of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system was an important issue.
In practice, the shortage of staff obliged the UTP to concentrate on project execution which did not prevent
staff from knowing about the delays in implementation. In practice, having the M&E system in place
would have allowed the UTP to have more detailed and precise information to adjust details, which is of
more relevance now that the project has more beneficiaries.
9.11   Text Reference: Paragraph 7.4.3
Role of the Bank and the Borrower: Preparation
The preparation of the project did not include the specification of the mechanisms by which the
different components would be implemented but confined itself to the major objectives of the components.
The mechanisms were defined during the first semester of 1966 when the project should have been under
implementation, and this caused considerable delay. Certainly, the results could have been better if the
preparation had included the definition of both the Manual of Operating Procedures and the M&E system
before the initiation of implementation. That would have been the appropriate time to have specified the
system of "payments by results" discussed in paragraph 8.1 (f).
9.12   Text Reference: Paragraph 7.6.2
Implementing Agency
Most of the time, the UTP was swamped by the demands made on it, a fact that is probably at the
root of several of the management problems addressed.
9.13   Text Reference: Paragraph 8.1
Lessons Learned
The principal lesson learned was the need to have a period for preparation of the beneficiary before
providing the resources for the implementation of his project. The failures in PVAs are the result more of
deficiencies in organizational development than in any technical deficiency in the proposals. In
organizational development are included the formalization of rights and obligations, conflict resolution
procedures, and the generation of confidence between people and within the organization.
- 27 -



9.14 Text Reference: Paragraph 8.1 (f)
The field teams of the empresas were mainly composed of generalists and problems of lack of
technical support did occur; however, in most cases, the empresas included highly-qualified specialists at
specific times. This was the case, for example, when the strategic plans and the organizational
development proposals were being prepared, and for specific production problems in flowers, strawbernies,
olives, etc. Permanently operating with more highly skilled staff would have been very costly. The
capacity of technical support provided by these empresas is equal to or exceeds that which is generally
available through a program of technical assistance.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Component: Natural Resource
Management and Agricultural Development
1.1 Promotion of farmer organizations, and
technology transfer:
No. of Beneficaries (cumulative):
Year 1   300                                                                  718
Year 2   700                                                                  1,410
Year 3  1000                                                                  1,891
Year4  1100                                                                   2,059
Year 5
1.2 Promotion of irrigated agriculture:
Area in ha (cumulative):
Year 1    145
Year 2    560
Year 3    1070
Year4    1300                                                               1,614.3
Year 5     --
2. Component: Off-farm Poverty Alleviation
2.1 Diversification and processing of
products:
Expenditures (US$1,000)
Year 1    1000
Year 2    1200
Year 3    1400                                                              1,108
Year 4    1000                                                              925
Year 5     400                                                              916
664
2.2 Improvement in Roads and Marketing
Expenditures US$1,000):
Year 1     445
Year 2     680                                                              469
Year 3     742                                                              359
Year 4     578                                                              500
Year5      105                                                              254
Output Indicators:
IndicatorWMatrix                    Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
- 29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Ap=pratisal: 00tActualLatest   Percentage of
Estimate  Estmae         Appraisal
Projct Cst B Comonen     US$millon      US$ millio
Natural Resource Management and Agricultural          13.25          12.03            85.3
Development
Off-farm Poverty Alleviation                          7.14            5.20            68.9
Support Services                                      6.25            8.09           119.9
Technical Assistance                                  4.22            2.62            58.2
Land Title Regularization
Studies                                               0.83            0.86           101.3
Project Technical Unit                                1.13            2.08           166.1
Total Baseline Cost                                  32.82           30.88
Physical Contingencies                               0.44
Price Contingencies                                  1.74
Total Project Costs             35.00           30.88
Total Financing Required              35.00           30.88
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement M4thod
Exp.n4~~1ture Category  NCB                    N.B.F.  ~~Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          2.20         3.10          0.00         5.30
(0.00)        (1.10)       (1.55)        (0.00)       (2.65)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00          0.00          1.10         1.10
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         11.60         0.00         11.60
(0.00)        (0.00)       (8.20)        (0.00)       (8.20)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         9.35          9.35
On-farm works                (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          3.65         0.00          3.65
Off-farm activities          (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.00)        (0.00)       (3.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          1.25         2.75          4.00
Project Technical Unit       (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.15)        (0.00)       (1.15)
Recurrent Costs
Total                      0.00          2.20          19.60        13.20        35.00
(0.00)        (1.10)      (13.90)        (0.00)       (15.00)
- 30 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procuremnent MethodI
Expenditure Category         ICB            NC      t    Otho           N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00            0.00          6.75           4.30          11.05
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00          4.36           1.45           5.81
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00          6.42           7.60          14.02
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
On-farm works                   (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
Off-farm activities             (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
Project Technical Unit          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Recurrent Costs
Total                         0.00           0.00          17.53          13.35         30.88
______________________      (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local goverarnent units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
l                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percextae of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate           AetuaUlest Estimate
-i;9                C.   ,an             Gt.         -               -      -.....
_k                        _ __o_._C                 CoF.    Bank    Govt. oF.   Bank  .  CoF.
Natural Resource
Management and
Sustainable Agricultural
Development
Off-farm Poverty
Alleviation
Support Services
Technical Assistance
Land Title Regularization
Studies
Project Technical Unit
Note: The SAR provided a break-down of projected foreign exchange and local costs by component and
sub-component, but did not provide an analysis of the sources of financing (i.e., governnent and Bank) by
component.
- 31 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
3.1    During appraisal, the internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the Natural Resource
Management and Agricultural Development component and the Rural Roads sub-component, including the
costs of the technology transfer program and the UTP, was estimated at 20.7 per cent. The Final
Evaluation of the Secano project, carried out by the Universidad de Chile, estimated an IERR for the whole
project of just over 10 per cent, slightly more than the opportunity cost of capital in Chile as estimated by
the Ministry of Planning (Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Cooperacion - MIDEPLAN). However, the
assumptions made for this IERR calculation are significantly different from the assumptions made at
appraisal. The economic analysis carried out for the Final Evaluation included off-farm sub-projects,
which the appraisal did not, but it did not make any allowance for shadow pricing or deduct taxes from
project costs. Moreover, in neither case did the analysis attempt to capture "without project" productivity
losses (i.e., declining yields because of declining soil fertility) as a project benefit. The result of including
these allowances and changes would be to increase the estirnated IERR.
3.2    An overall IERR of the project of slightly over 10 per cent, which is marginal for any investment
project in the agricultural sector, is not surprising, however, in a pilot project of this nature, given the
experimental nature of the exercise, the risks involved in working with poor small farmers, and the
relatively high fixed costs and overheads. The modest overall IERR of the project masks a wide range of
situations and performances of the various sub-projects, ranging from the extremely successful to plain
failures. In particular, the overall IERR is heavily influenced by the relatively large rate of failure in both
off-farm and on-farm sub-projects, as indicated below.
3.3   In the Final Evaluation, the performance of on-farm development sub-projects was analyzed on the
basis of a sample of 685 sub-projects for which adequate information could be obtained. According to this
analysis, about 50 per cent of these sub-projects failed to generate an acceptable level of return on
investment. While some degree of failure in sub-projects executed by poor small farmers operating under
adverse conditions was to be expected, the relatively high rate of failures actually experienced cannot be
explained solely by poor farmers' inability to execute these types of projects. It would seem that the high
rate of failure is largely the result of poor sub-project design and weak technical assistance. The three
micro-regions (Portezuelo, Trehuaco and Coelemu) in the VIII Region, for example, are located in an area
with higher rainfall than the rest of the Secano but, nevertheless, had the highest rates of failure (ranging
from 40 per cent to 74 per cent), whereas three micro-regions located in a much drier area, but with similar
types of beneficiaries, had a much lower rates of failure, around 40 per cent. The analysis of the
distribution of "successful" sub-projects by rate of return shows that they are, in fact, biased in favor of
higher rates of return. About 24 per cent of all successful PDAs had an IERR of between 10 and 20 per
cent; 42 per cent of them had an IERR of between 21 and 50 per cent, and the remaining 34 per cent had an
IERR of over 50 per cent. The indication is that there are successful production systems that can be
promoted in the Secano but which some of the firms responsible for project implementation on the ground
have failed to promote.
3.4    Given that the micro-regions Portezuelo, Trehuaco and Coelemu, with the highest rates of failure in
implementation of sub-projects, accounted for 51 per cent of total beneficiaries, it is not surprising that the
overall rate of return of the project was relatively low.
3.5   In the case of off-farm sub-projects, there was also a wide range of circumstances, initial
conditions and results. In an analysis of a sample of 80 sub-projects, which were implemented and which
generated at least some income during the project's life, 38 sub-projects (48 per cent of the sample) failed to
- 32 -



achieve a rate of return of more than 10 per cent. As in the case of the PDAs, the main reason for this
high rate of failure appears to have been poor sub-project design; among other factors, according to the
Final Evaluation, nearly two-thirds of the sub-projects presented for financing did not have any indication
of the expected rate of return on investment. It would appear that a combination of poor ex ante
sub-project design and a deficient approval and supervision system on the part of the Project Technical
Unit allowed numerous sub-projects to proceed to implementation without proper financial/economic
analysis.
3.6    For those off-farm sub-projects whose rates of return on investment were higher than the
opportunity cost of capital, there was also a bias in favor of higher rates of return. Eight sub-projects
showed an IRR of return of between 10 and 20 per cent; nine sub-projects had an IRR of between 21 and
50 per cent; and the remaining twenty-five successful sub-projects showed an IRR of more than 50 per
cent.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
) Missions:              _7_7_
St*, of Projectyle                      No.of PesandSpecilty                     PeieRatci j. .
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implemetation  Dvelopmet
i  MonthYear    Couint           Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identifi~ation:              1   Irrigation Engineer
September 1992               2   Agronomist
1   Econornist
Identification:              1   Irrigation Engineer
January 1993                 1   Agronomist
1   Forestry Specialist
1   Economnist
Preparation                  I   Irrigation Engineer
May 1993                     1   Agronomist
1   Economist
Preparation:
July 1993                    1   Forestry Specialist
Preparation:
July 1993                    1   Economist
1   Irrigation Engineer (consultant)
Preparation:
September 1993               2   Irrigation Engineer
1   Economist
1   Project Analyst
1   Nat Res Man Specialist
1   Agronomist
1   Forestry Specialist
I   Institutional Specialist
1   Env Assessment Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Pre-appraisal:               2   Irrigation Engineer
January 1994                 2   Forestry Specialist
1   Economist
1   Project Analyst
I   Institutional Specialist
I   Env Assessment Specialist
Pre-appraisal                2   Irrigation Engineer
follow-up:
April 1994                   1   Agronomist
- 34 -



I   Lawyer
1   Project Analyst
I   Economist
I   Forestry Specialist
2   Institutional Specialist
Appraisal:                    2   Irrigation Engineer
July 1994                     1   Agronomist
I   Nat Res Man Specialist
1   Lawyer
1   Economist
1   Project Analyst
I   Forestry Specialist
Negotiations:                 1   Irrigation Engineer
November 1995                 1   Lawyer
I   Agronomist
1   Agric Dev Specialist (consultant)
Supervision
January 1996                  1   Agronomist
Project Launch                1   Economist
Mission
April 1996                    1   Agronomist
1   Economist
January 1997                  1   Agricultural Economist                S              S
1   Irrigation Engineer
1   Agronomnist
1   Economist
July 1997                     1   Agricultural Economist                S              S
I   Agronomnist
I   Economist
January 1998                  1   Agricultural Economist                S              S
I   Agronomist
1   Economist
September 1998                1   Agricultural Economist
I   Economist
January 1999                  1   Agricultural Economist                S              S
Mid-term review               I   Economist
April 1999                    1   Agricultural Economist                S              S
I   Economist
September -                   1   Agricultural Economist                S              S
October 1999                  1   Economist
April 2000                    1   Agricultural Economist
I   Economist
September 2000                1   Agricultural Economnist               S              S
1   Economist
- 35 -



ICR
January 2001                1    Agricultural Economist
I    Economist
- 36 -



('b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks.              us$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                172.8                         277.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                     127.6                         341.4
Supervision                                81.3                         329.1
ICR                                         6.0                          24.9
Total                                     387.7                         972.5
Note: Includes Bank budget financed consultants and FAO/CP staff
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                        OH  OSUOM  ON  *NA
El Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Physical                              OH *SUOM ON ONA
L Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
a Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
El Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
EL Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
I Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                        O HS * S  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS *@S O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
O Government implementation performance              OHS OS  O  U  O HU
K Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
K Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report: Secano Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resource Management Project:
Report No. 14894-CH: December 5, 1995
2. Loan Agreement: Loan No. 3974-CH: June 26, 1996
3. Informe de Evaluaci6n durante Ejecuci6n - Sub-componente de Investigaci6n PRODECOP-Secano:
Fundaci6n para la Innovaci6n Agraria:
4. Informe de Cierre - Sub-componente de Investigaci6n PRODECOP-Secano: Fundaci6n para la
Innovaci6n Agraria: January 2001
5. Elementos para el Disefio de una Estrategia para la Superaci6n de la Pobreza Rural: Convenio
CEPAL-INDAP: Tercer Informe de Avance December 28, 2000
6. Evaluaci6n de la Sostenibilidad de los Sistemas de Producci6n y de las Metodologias de Transferencia
Tecnol6gica en las Microrregiones del Proyecto: Gross Consultores Asociados Ltda: December 2000
7. Analisis de la Experiencia de Proyectos Productivos, a traves de su Reconstrucci6n Hist6rica -
PRODECOP-Secano: Universidad de Chile, Facultad de Ciencias Veterinarias y Pecuarias: December
2000
8. Evaluaci6n del Impacto del Programa PRODECOP-Secano: Universidad de Chile, Facultad de
Ciencias Veterinarias y Pecuarias: Primer Borrador: January 2001 Informe Final, Tomos I & II: June
2001
9. Proyecto de Desarrollo Rural de Comunidades Campesinas y Pequefios Productores Agropecuarios de
la IV Regi6n: FIDA: Rome September 1992
10. Proyecto Regional de Desarrollo de la Pequefia Agricultura de Secano Interior en la VIII Regi6n:
FAO-TCP: Santiago, January 1991
11. Informaci6n Generada con el Proyecto PRODECOP - Secano (Geographic Information System);
Gobiemo de Chile, Ministerio de Agricultura (Servicio Agricola y Ganadero, Departamento de Protecci6n
de Recursos Naturales Renovables); February 2001
12. Experiencia y Lecciones Aprendidas: Aporte del PRODECOP-Secano al Disefno de una Estrategia de
Superaci6n de Pobreza Rural para INDAP; PRODECOP-Secano UTP
13. El Funcionamiento del Proyecto PRODECOP-Secano: la Visi6n de las Empresas Ejecutoras;
Santiago; March 2000
14. Evaluaci6n de Impacto del Programa de Desarrollo Productivo Rural (FOSIS); Universidad de Chile,
Facultad de Ciencias Veterinarias y Pecuarias: Informe de Avance: March 2000
15. Informe de Base para la Evaluaci6n de Medio Termino del PRODECOP-Secano: Universidad de
Chile, Facultad de Ciencias Veterinarias y Pecuarias; December 1998.
- 40 -



16. Comentarios al Borrador del Inforne Final de Ejecucuon (Implementation Competion Report)
Prestamo BIRF 3974-CH: INDAP: June 2001
-41 -



Additional Annex 8. Summary of the Borrower's Report
1.    Objectives and Achievements of the Project
1.1    The PRODECOP-Secano project is being implemented in areas where the majority of the
population has lived for many years in conditions of poverty and isolation, where the ecosystems are
practically destroyed and where the natural resources are badly degraded; the consequent vicious circle
begins with poverty, and through the degradation of natural resources generates a reduced potential for
production and reduced income, and ends in worse poverty.
1.2    The central objective of the project is to overcome rural poverty via the sustainable management of
natural resources through the validation and implementation of strategies that increase the incomes of small
farm families and ensure, from the economic, social and environmental perspectives, the sustainable
management of resources.
1.3    Rural poverty is a multidimensional problem whose solutions go beyond the time-frame and scope
of the project; overcoming poverty has been approached from the perspective of expanding production and
no direct intervention has been made in other aspects. However, the design of the pilot project is such that
it has given the opportunity to deal with issues that normally are beyond the sphere of action of INDAP.
1.4    The project operates in the municipalities of Navidad, La Estrella and Lolol in the VI Region;
Curepto and Pelluhue, in the VII Region; and Coelemu, Portezuelo and Trehuaco in the VIII Region. All
are located in the coastal and interior Secano.
1.5    The specific objectives of the project are:
(a) To promote the development of small-scale agriculture and forestry systems;
(b) To promote the development of off-farm economic activities (e.g., tourism, handicrafts,
small industries) to complement agriculture-based employment and income;
(c) To improve rural infrastructure in support of production-oriented activities; and
(d) To increase the commitment of families participating in planning and managing soil and water
resources and in the preparation and implementation of off-farm productive activities.
Note: This translation and precis of the Borrower's Report is the responsibility of the principal authors of the ICR.
Section and paragraph numbering follows that of the Borrower's Report to facilitate cross- referencing.
- 42 -



2.    Project Strategy
2.1   In the implementation of the project, four lines of strategy have been followed:
(a) the concentration of resources in two major components - the agricultural development
projects (Proyectos de Desarrollo Agricola - PDAs) and the off-farm "value-added" projects (Proyectos
de Agregaci6n del Valor - PAVs) - and the focusing of the project on specific micro-regions within the
Secano.
(b) the activities of the project have been implemented in an integrated manner; the PDAs worked
by treating the farm as a whole unit and in many cases the PAVs operated in such a way as to close the
productive cycle. The institutional strengthening and training activities of the project also allowed the
project to work with and bring together a wide range of institutions and organizations.
(c) the active participation of the project's beneficiaries and local entities was effected through the
Local Development Committees (Consejos Locales de Desarrollo - CDLs) formed by beneficiaries,
municipal authorities and INDAP. The fundamental role of the CDL has been to establish priorities
among projects and to monitor their implementation, as well as to participate in decision-making
concerning implementation. This has generated an important development in local institutional capacity
and in the establishment of a process of "social control". The CDLs have gradually assumed a more
executive role, participating in the selection of beneficiaries. Participation is a process that has formed
part of the life of the project, requiring time, orientation and support. To achieve real and active
participation on the part of poor people who normally have seen their expectations frustrated or who have
had generally less than successful experiences, whether with the government or with the privates sector, is a
challenge which has required a constant effort on the part of the project.
(d) a fundamental element has been that the project's instruments or interventions have been
flexible. Poverty is a multidimensional problem and although the project has not attempted to cover all of
the aspects of poverty that have presented themselves, the flexibility in the instruments available has
allowed the project to recognize the heterogeneity of the population, the complexity of the decisions that are
taken within the poor family, allowing the family to recognize a possible solution to its own individual
problem and giving space to the firms (empresas) to use their creativity.
3.    Results of PRODECOP-Secano
3.1    Agricultural Development Projects (PDAs):
3.1.1  This component, one of the main ones of the project, was implemented through the consulting firms
(empresas) contracted under the project. The strategy was based on the focusing of resources on specific
geographic areas which permitted the project to operate at the level of micro-catchment areas. The PDAs
are made up of medium-term farm plans for each farmer which include cash crops as their main theme and
which must ensure that the farm can be operated on a sustainable basis from both the environmental and
productive points of view. Each PDA had associated with it a Technology Transfer and Training Program
(Programa de Transferencia Tecnol6gica y Capacitaci6n - PTTC) based on the specific circumstances of
the farm. The participation of the beneficiaries was actively encouraged in the planning and
implementation of the PDAs.
- 43 -



3.1.2 This component had five sub-components:
(a) Agricultural Development: up to 60% of the investment was subsidized, with the objective of
improving the crops already existing or introduced under the project in a manner designed to avoid resource
degradation. The objective was to ensure that the farmer should define with the empresa his own farm
plan, commit himself to certain actions, participate in the program of technology transfer and training, and
as a result have a long-term vision of his farm development. There are 2,059 families incorporated into the
PDA program, representing a coverage of 85% of the potential beneficiaries located in the project area; of
these, 23% were female-headed farm families which were especially important in the production and
marketing of flowers and vegetables. A wide range of crops was grown, taking advantage of the specific
agro-climatic conditions in the different micro-regions. In all micro-regions, the project worked on the
improvement of the traditional crops of the Secano region, and in the development of forestry using both
native and introduced species.
(b) Small Irrigation Development: up to 90% of the investment was subsidized. The existence
of irrigation capability was a great catalyst the development of new crops. It also had the additional and
unforeseen benefit of providirng, in many cases, a domestic water supply. The area put under irrigation
was 424 ha during the four years of the projects implementation 1997 - 2000. Most of the irrigation is
based on drip techniques. The area put under irrigation was between 0.25 - 0.5 ha, a limitation imposed
by scarce water supply and high cost per ha of the investment. The average cost was the equivalent of
US$9,854 per ha but the fixed cost for each installation would allow the eventual area under irrigation to
be increased to 782 ha at an average cost of US$5,342 per ha. Although relatively high, it is not
considered possible to reduce this cost because of the specific difficult conditions that prevail in the Secano
(c) Livestock Development: up to 60% of the investment was subsidized and investments were
mainly oriented towards pasture improvements, and breeding stocks of sheep and goats.
(d) Forestry Development: up to 90% of the investment was subsidized, and in some cases
credit was also provided to allow the beneficiary to take advantage of incentives provided through the
Forestry Development Law (Ley de Fomento Forestal). The main objective was to develop small forest
plantations, including the development of small nurseries wherever necessary. Demand for this
sub-component was limited in the first years of the project, and project beneficiaries only began to invest in
forestry when income accrued from the shorter-term crop investments.
(e) Conservation of Natural Resources: up to 100% subsidy was made in these investments.
Resource conservation has been approached in different ways in the three Regions. The priority of poor
farmners is naturally in subsistence production, and progress could only be made in resource conservation
once income was being generated by the productive activities promoted by the project. In parallel the
project worked to generate awareness among producers of the importance of conservation and maintenance
of the resource base. Of the area incorporated into agricultural production, almost 500 ha have specific
conservation measures incorporated (including contour cultivation, control of erosion channels, minimum
and zero tillage, and terrace cultivation. The intensification of agriculture on part of the farm with suitable
conditions (e.g., via irrigation) has had the effect of reducing the overall pressure on resources at the farm
level.
- 44 -



3.1.3  In summary, it can be said that the incorporation of new crops and access to markets (in general,
local and regional markets) has allowed small farmers to increase their incomes. Investment has increased
the value of their land-holdings, and advances have been made in farm and investment planning. The
pressure on natural resources has been reduced by intensifying production on part of the holding. It should
be recalled that the project has been working with the poorest of the farmers of the Secano, and this has had
a very marked effect on the type of work that can be done, not only in terms of investments but also in
terms of the social and cultural characteristics of these farmers.
3.1.4 Results Compared to the Indicators of the Staff Appraisal Report:
Agricultural Development Project                         Year
(PDAs):
___ _ _-__ _-_ _   1         2   1               4         5
SAR Target (number)                  300       7002      1000      1100      1100
Achievement                            -       718       1410      1891      2059
Irrigation Development Programs:                         Year
-I           2 1    3            4         5
SAR Target (hectares)                145   |  560        1,070     1,300     1,300
Achievement                            -    |   66       214       327       424
3.1.5  Comments conceming the indicators:
(a) The number of beneficiaries in PDAs was almost twice the SAR estimate because: (i) there
was high demand to enter the project; (ii) the project management itself decided to make the benefits of the
project more widely felt and more equitable; (iii) beneficiaries were absorbed from other INDAP-supported
activities in the eight selected micro-regions; (iv) the projected level of investment at the individual farm
level was considered too high making the results less capable of replication.
(b) The irrigated area did not reach the targets because of a number of inter-related factors,
including: (i) limitations on the water supply: in general, the sources are small surface flows that only allow
small areas (i.e., < 1 ha) to be irrigated; (ii) the project has worked only with the very poorest farmers
whose capacity to borrow is limited; (iii) irrigation works tend to be costly in the Secano.
3.1.6  The project could not incorporate beneficiaries during the first year because of an legal obstacle in
selecting and hiring the empresas, and only from the second year could the empresas begin to work in the
micro-regions. The investment made in irrigation was US$4.18 million compared to the US$4.24 million
projected in the SAR.
- 45 -



3.2    Added Value Projects (PVAs):
3.2.1  This component together with the component of PDAs represents the central thrust of the project.
The objective was to add value to primary agricultural production, generate sources of employment and to
encourage and support collaborative working by the beneficiaries of the project. The subsidy to
investment could be up to 85% in the case of a PVA costing less than 800 UF, and up to 70% for a PVA
costing more than that amount. These were associative projects and priorities were established by the
Local Development Council (Consejo de Desarrollo Local - CDL). A wide range of productive activities
was established, including small agro-industries, wood-working shops, machinery services and rural
tourism.
3.2.2  The isolated conditions under which most of the beneficiaries live implied that a large effort had to
be made by the project in terms of training and support to management of the PVAs. The total number of
beneficiaries incorporated into these PVAs over four years was 1,688 of whom close to 30% were women,
although this proportion varied significantly between the micro-regions. In the last year of the project, the
UTP placed emphasis on the consolidation of existing PVAs rather than on the opening of new ones.
3.3    Training:
3.3.1  This component supported the implementation of the PDAs and the PVAs. Training was given in
numerous subjects relevant to the project, for example in natural resource conservation and irrigation
management, and reached 2,458 beneficiaries of whom more than 50% were women in the first year, a
level that declined to 25% in subsequent years.
3.4   Institutional Strengthening:
3.4.1  The objective was to strengthen institutions in the Secano to improve their management capacity to
support small farmers and rural development in general. This component has allowed several initiatives of
support to the other components and improved integration between them, and operated in three main areas:
support to organizations, support to local institutions, and support to the CDLs.
3.4.2 The organizations were mainly supported in the areas of marketing, management and
organizational development. Municipal staff were also trained. Several agreements (convenios) were
established with other institutions present in the comuna, especially the agricultural schools where the
curriculum was altered, training courses given, demonstration parcels established and environmental
awareness raised.
3.5    Rural Infrastructure:
3.5.1  The component was aimed at improving rural roads and market infrastructure to complement
productive activities with an improvement in product marketing. The isolation of rural communities
provoked by poor or nonexistent roads reduces their market access and emphasizes their marginalization
from services and urban centers. At the beginning, the project directly undertook the road improvement
work itself which was time-consuming and brought a number of technical problems. From the project's
second year, convenios were established with the municipal authorities to allow them to implement the
works. Given the importance of the component to the rural communities, the level of participation and
support were very significant. Demand was channeled through the Neighborhood Committees (Juntas de
Vecinos) and then revised for priority through the CDLs.
-46 -



3.5.2  In the VI Region, a convenio was signed with the Roads Directorate (Direcci6n de Vialidad)
which increased the resources available. The main demands in the VII Region were for foot-bridges and
fords to allow access to areas isolated by the seasonally flooded channels in winter. In the overall
evaluation of the project there were a total of 6,567 people who benefited (and continue to benefit) from
these investments in the eight comunas. The improvement in roads were one of the activities most valued
by project beneficiaries via the improvements achieved in marketing and the easing of the constraint of
isolation and marginalization.
3.6    Market Infrastructure:
3.6.1  The component supported the construction and management of municipal market infrastructure for
the use of small farmers. A tripartite agreement was sought in each case between the municipal authority,
the farmer beneficiaries and INDAP under which the infrastructure created became the property of the
municipality but administered by the farmers' organization selected by INDAP and the municipality. The
markets that have been established have benefited all of the small farmers of the comuna, not just the
beneficiaries of the PDAs and PVAs.
3.7    Project Selection through Competition:
3.7.1  During the first year of the project, a competitive selection process was carried out to obtain the
services of the empresas to supply services to beneficiaries in the micro-regions, but a legal challenge
prevented its timely completion. An ad hoc selection process was therefore carried out in order to identify
the demand for lDAs and PAVs and avoid an unnecessary delay in project start-up. A large number of
these had been identified and evaluated by the end of 1996, but budgetary resources were not made
available to implement them until early in 1997. As a result, there were 1,160 beneficiaries of the project
in PDAs and small-sized irrigation in 1997, of whom 30% were women.
3.8    Local Development Councils (CDLs):
3.8.1  The functioning of this mechanism of local participation was a success, and was fundamental in
the process of establishing priority between, and later the monitoring of, the PDAs and the PAVs.
Although the objectives of the CDLs were the same in all of the comunas, each CDL developed its own
characteristics - but all shared the feature of being highly active; the relatively short life of the project, as a
pilot, limited the development of this participatory process.
- 47 -



3.9    Results Compared to the Indicators of the Staff Appraisal Report:
(US$ x 1000)
Year
1 (1996)      2 (1997)       3 (1998)       4 (1999)       5 (2000)
PVAs                           _
SAR Target          1000          1200           1400           1000            400
Achievement          -             876            925            916            664
Rural Roads
SAR Target          350            580            642            478
Achievement          -             469            226            319            193
Market
Infrastructure
SAR Target          95             100            100            100            105
Achievement          -                            133            181            61
Technology
Transfer
SAR Target          580            670      |    480       |    270       l
Achievement          -             952           1.212          1239           1531
Institutional
Strengthening
SAR Target          200            150            100            50
Achievement          74            198            368            364            770
Training
SAR Target          250            250            250            250             -
Achievement                                       1 l  190       77             45
3.9.1 Comments concerning the indicators:
(a) PVAs: expenditures under the project were less than those planned because: (i) the first year
was employed in the identification and preparation of PVAs which then only began to be implemented in
the second year; (ii) the individual PVAs were, on average, smaller than expected; and (iii) the process of
association and collaborative working required a long time to establish in the case of each PVA, and
required continuous support from the project.
(b) Rural Roads: the expenditures were lower than anticipated, mainly because of the technical
and operational difficulties experienced in implementing the component. For example, in the VIII Region
in the first year three separate bidding processes had to be carried out, because of the small size and
dispersion of the works.
(c) Market Infrastructure: the actual expenditures were less than those planned because the
process of organization of the users took much longer than anticipated. The whole issue of establishing
market infrastructure was carefully evaluated in each comuna, and as a result there are four of the eight
comunas where it was considered not necessary to build markets.
-48 -



(d) Institutional Strengthening: the actual expenditures were three times those projected. The
project found that the need was much greater than expected and had to work intensively with a wide range
of "organizations", including the PVA groups, the municipios, the agricultural schools and other local
institutions.
(e) Training: actual expenditure were less than those projected because the projects themselves in
may cases included in their own costs the activities of training and provision of technical assistance.
(f) Technology Transfer: the costs of the work done by the empresas in implementing the PDAs
grew significantly as a function of the increase in the number of beneficiaries.
3.9.2 The total number of farm-families involved in investment projects (PDAs, PVAs) reached 4,907
with a total of 20,609 people. Those involved in or affected by support investments (roads, training) were
a further 9,375. Markets and institutional strengthening benefited individually all or most of the
inhabitants of the comunas in which they occurred, and a series of project benefits was achieved that
cannot be evaluated or measured in monetary terms.
4.     Lessons Learned
4.1    During the project, the lessons learned by the staff of the project and the empresas were
summarized in interviews and work-shops. Among the most relevant are the following:
(a) (i) The short life of the project did not allow the full realization of the objectives. It also
imposed an "urgency" in management and decision-making which implied less-than-optimal conditions for
implementation; (ii) as a result, it is clear that minimum defined periods are necessary for establishing the
project unit, for selecting project beneficiaries, and for initiating all the project participants in guidelines
and methodology; (iii) the short project life by definition does not allow the production objectives of the
longer-term PDAs and PVAs to be achieved; and (iv) activities such as marketing which require an
associative approach among beneficiaries need time to mature.
(b) The shortage of personnel meant that there was no time for certain key tasks such as the
establishment of the monitoring and evaluation system (which were not of a crucial day to day nature but
which had important longer-term implications). This aspect is crucial in a project of this nature where
many of the operational functions of the project were in effect "privatized".
(c) The availability of investment resources was a key factor in the achievement of the objectives.
This allowed the implementation of sustainable productive initiatives. The ability to provide subsidies was
also of fundamental importance for success when dealing with communities of the rural poor.
(d) The focus on a specific area with local participation allowed the concentration of both -
financial and human resources and the initiatives were closely adjusted to the local conditions. The
flexibility of the project's instruments and the integrated approach to the project were important factors.
(e) The inclusion of the infrastructure component attacked two big problems in the poor
communities, isolation and the lack of physical market facilities.
(f) The short life of the project threw into sharp relief a major limitation on the part of the
empresas, which in general terms lacked the ability to adopt an integral approach to farm development
- 49 -



which limited their response to the peasant farmer's mentality and decision-making approach. Many of the
proposals that were implemented did not consider the required balance between income-generation needs in
the short and long term, introduced key crops without considering the rest of the cropping pattern, and had
deficiencies in terms of marketing. This also affected the proposals concerning the management of natural
resources.
(g) In a project with a short implementation period, in this case of four years, it is not
recommended that a research component be included that does not generate results that can be applied to
the project's needs and only has the effect of adding work to an over-burdened implementation unit.
(h) The planning of PDAs requires adequate time to ensure the participation of beneficiaries sand
to validate the proposals, as well as being in synchronization with the crop year and coherent with the
conditions of the farm family. The dynamics of the project (the short project life vs. the need for results)
and the structure of the public sector institutions worked against this.
(i) The project had several aspects of participation, the most notable of which were the CDLs.
There is considerable merit and wide appreciation of putting the responsibility for investments in the hands
of representatives of the beneficiaries. The CDLs evolved from merely being responsible for investment
selection to having a powerful role in monitoring and supervision of sub-projects, selection of beneficiaries
and being the counter-part of the project in the comuna.
(j) Participation with small, poor farmers must be carefully tailored to the specific conditions and
characteristics of each area.
(k) The presence of the PAM was an essential element in local coordination and beneficiary
participation.
(1) Institutional strengthening helped to coordinate the project with other institutions through
strategic alliances, adding resources and technical capability, and helped to make the project's results more
sustainable.
(m) The articulation of the project with the municipalities was of key importance.
(n) A longer time period is necessary to achieve permanent results and ownership by beneficiaries.
5.    The Opinion of the Farmers Concerning the Implementation of the Project
5.1    PDAs
5. t. 1 Two sources exist which provide information on the opinions of project beneficiaries: an opinion
survey carried out at the end of 2000 by the PAMs as part of the annual evaluation of the empresas, and
the impact evaluation carried out by the Universidad de Chile.
Evaluation of the Empresas:
5.1.2 Navidad (Empresa OCAC): Most beneficiaries were aware of the investments to be made and had
participated in workshops. Some beneficiaries were concerned that they did not know the amounts of
credit they were taking on, nor were the debt-service obligations clear to them. Most beneficiaries
- 50 -



understood the technical assistance received, but some could not retain what they had been told verbally or
read what was left for them in written form. The groups of beneficiaries were too large to be able to
capture the technology messages of external specialists.
5.1.3  Lolol (Empresa OCAC): Farmers stated that they had generally participated in the preparation of
projects but that they did not take the relevant decisions. The majority were satisfied with their projects,
especially with the level of investments and subsidies provided. They felt that marketing support was
deficient. With respect to the conservation of natural resources, many farmers felt that the empresa's
support was satisfactory but recognized that they did not have the incentive to incorporate conservation
measures because they competed with other investments.
5.1.4  La Estrella (Empresa CIAL): Most of the farmers clearly understood the nature of the work
planned and carried out on their farms, and the physical investments made. All farmers stated that they
had participated in the design and implementation of their projects. Most farmers felt that the technology
transfer program was valuiable and that the visits were always useful, although some felt that the visits
could be more frequent. Most farmers stated that they were not very familiar with the conservation of
natural resources. Many farmers needed more, and more detailed, financial information on their projects.
5.1.5  Pelluhue (Empresa CEDRA): Many farmers had a detailed knowledge of the contents of their
PDA more from their participation in implementation than in identification and preparation. The
strawberry producers, in general, were more satisfied with their projects than was the case with farmers
dedicated to vegetable production. All agreed that the provision of irrigation had been the most important
contribution received frorn the project. In technology transfer, all agreed on the importance of the group
meetings and felt that they should be more frequent. In general, they showed a high degree of satisfaction
with the work done by the empresa but many felt "under-informed" about credit. The most important
weakness on the side of the empresa was considered to be in marketing. Although they had received
technical assistance in resource conservation, many farmers felt that they did not have sufficient motivation
to apply it.
5.1.6 Curepto (Empresa Universidad de Talca): This empresa began only in mid-2000 after the contract
with its predecessor had been cancelled because of technical inefficiency. Farmers stated that they had not
been sufficiently involved in project preparation and design, but had been fully so in implementation where
they felt that the investments made had been the most important part of the project. In technology transfer,
many farmers felt that extensionists should spend more time on their field visits. One important criticism
was the delay experienced in the supply of material from one particular supplier.
5.1.7  Portezuelo (Empresa Instituto de Educaci6n Rural): Beneficiaries had actively participated in their
projects, and particularly valued the provision of irrigation which had been used mainly for greenhouse
crops and vines. Farmers placed value on the monthly meetings, and indicated that they needed both more
specialized assistance and a more permanent training in the use of irrigation systems. They understood
their costs of production, but wanted to be involved in the procurement process for inputs. The main
unsatisfied demand was for more help in marketing of produce.
5.1.8  Trehuaco (Empresa STOAS): Beneficiaries view the project positively, because they have seen an
increase in land values and in their quality of life. They were satisfied with the technology transfer
process, having seen an increase in the number of technician's visits and meetings. The major deficiency
was in marketing which was a limiting factor on development.
5.1.9  Coelemu (Empresa Agraria Sur): In general terrns, farmers had not participated in the formulation
- 51 -



of their projects. Half of them were of the opinion that there were problems with their farm plans. The
majority of farmers approve of the technology transfer program, and 80% of them stated that they
implemented the recommendations of the field technicians; in general, farmers felt that more frequent visits
were required, both from the core team and from specialists. Most farmers stated that the empresa did not
deal adequately with the problems of marketing, organization and natural resource management. The most
important features of the project were the investrnents made (and the subsidies) at farm level, the
incorporation of irrigation and the presence of a technical team.
Impact Evaluation:
5.1.10 In general terms, the project had little impact on the net migration of people from the Secano.
Farmers and other beneficiaries had wide-ranging opinions on the following evaluated topics:
(a) Incomes: production costs have increased; those farmers generating incremental income are
able to pay the amortization of the credit; in some cases, increased consumption has made impossible the
marketing of a surplus and consequently the amortization of credit; the three main factors affecting income
were (i) inadequate marketing; (ii) local over-production of some crops; and (iii) the cost of maintenance
and replacement investment; there exists concern about the debts taken on and farmers are not convinced
that incremental output will cover the cost of debt service. There is frequently a lack of understanding
about the amount of the debt, how it is paid and how it operates.
(b) On-farm Investment: an increase has been achieved which will remain after the project closes,
the value of the property has increased and the farmers are more satisfied with their farm holdings.
(c) Productive Structure: traditional crops have not been substituted by new crops but
complemented by them; farmers prefer to have more subsistence crop alternatives, and widely believe that
when the project terminates they will not be able to maintain the achievements with the new crops; farmers
will continue with their subsistence crops and will only abandon the marginal part of that production that
was formerly marketed.
(d) Use of Labor: the project has expanded employment, particularly among women and there is
the expectation that employment will continue to grow over time.
(e) Natural Resources: the project's efforts towards natural resources have not always been well
understood by participants who have tended to accept them as just another part of the project. Forestry is
seen mainly as a future provider of income rather than as a conservation measure.
(f) Quality of Life: participants consider that their quality of life has improved markedly, and the
main factor was considered to be access to water which improved both living conditions and increased
incomes. In particular, women have seen an important increase in their cash incomes from the marketing
of vegetables and fruit.
5.2    Added Value Projects (PVAs):
5.2.1  The main positive aspects which resulted from the evaluation were:
(a) incremental employment and the prospect of improved incomes in the future were the main
benefits seen by participants. Innovation in production, the ability to be more efficient in agricultural
- 52 -



production and effective marketing were seen as important factors of success.
(b) organizational and management factors are important and the groups must be "self selected"
by participants.
(c) training of participants was considered important, especially in marketing aspects.
5.2.2  Among the negative aspects in the development of these projects were:
(a) the need to begin debt service before the projects are actually generating (net) income.
Difficulties with marketing of the products of the project were cited by many participants, along with low
profitability, low volumes of production, shortage of raw materials and the instability of business.
(b) in some cases there was a lack of consolidation of the group, usually when a person or persons
in a group had had no earlier link or relationship. There have been some failures where the lack of
transparency in the handling of funds was a cause; the participation of one person with basic accounting
knowledge and the confidence of the group is essential.
(c) in technical assistance, the frequent rotation of extensionists was seen as a problem and in
some cases the lack of the necessary technical expertise contributed to failure (bee-keeping enterprises is
the example quoted).
(d) the most pressing problem in implementation was felt to be the shortage of capital.
(e) delays in processing paper-work and a lack of transparency in credit and accounting were
referred to by some participants, as well as an inequality in the assignation of resources.
5.3    Rural Roads:
5.3.1  Improved access has improved marketing and reduced the sense of isolation of many beneficiaries.
This has been especially important for children and old people, where access to schools and health services
has been improved.
5.4    Market Infrastructure:
5.4.1   Users of the market in Portezuelo were extremely satisfied with the market facilities. Those in
Coelemu were satisfied but referred to a lack of assistance particularly conceming the collection and
payment of taxes. Women in particular were enthusiastic about the opportunity presented to them by
participating in the market. The market in Navidad has yet to begin to function, because of the lack of
organization of different groups, the shortage of marketable produce and uncertainty concerning the
operation of the market. The market in Rapel sitnilarly has not yet begun to function.
6.     Research Projects
6.1    The objective of this component was to generate informnation, technology and production
alternatives adapted to the specific conditions of the Secano and its poor, small farmers. An agreement (
convenio) was signed between the project and the Foundation for Agricultural Innovation (Fundacion para
- 53 -



la Innovacion Agraria - FIA) to implement this component. Two "calls for proposals" were made in
1996 and 1997. This process allowed twenty research projects to be awarded concerning natural resource
management and ecosystems, livestock production, and fruit, vegetable and vine cultivation. The research
was carried out in the comunas of the project area over a period of three years; it emphasized working on
the land of the small farmers themselves.
6.2    The objectives of the component were centered on validation of existing technology and on
innovation. The transfer of the results of research was undertaken at two levels; between the researchers
and small farmers directly involved in the research, and between the researchers and the staff of the
empresas responsible for technology transfer to the beneficiaries.
7.    Studies
7.1    During the project the following studies were carried out:
(a) marketing of agricultural products of the Secano of the VI Region;
(b) marketing of agricultural products of the Secano of the VIII Region;
(c) feasibility study of the marketing center of Pelluhue;
(d) study of lessons and experience aimed at a better incorporation of natural resource
management in programs of action;
(e) possible scenarios for the rural and agricultural sectors of 2010;
(f) evaluating and strengthening social capital;
(g) the identification of strategies, policies and instruments for the sustainable management of
natural resources in the Secano in the context of poverty;
(h) institutions in the Secano;
(i) the impact of access to water resources in overcoming poverty and improving the quality of life
in the Coastal Secano; and
(j) hydro-geological study of the Coastal and Interior Secano of the VI, VII and VIII Regions (in
progress).
8.    Geographic Information System
8.1   In this component, maps of soil erosion susceptibility were prepared and delivered to the empresas
responsible for formulating and implementing the PDAs. These were also provided (together with
computers and soft-ware) to the PAMs in the comunas. Their use has only been partial, however, because
they were available only at the end of 1998 at which point land-use planning had essentially been
completed. The maps did serve as an ex post verification of the design work done by the empresas.
During the last two years, eight projects have been begun to identify potential areas for forestry,
- 54 -



bee-keeping, olive production, and accumulation of surface water flows.
9.    Evaluation of the Support Provided by the Bank and Other Institutions
9.1    Relationship with the Bank: T he fluid and rapid relationship that was developed with the Bank
during the implementation of the project and the flexibility which it has shown in making adjustments to
procedures are particularly valued. However, it is clear that the normal operating procedures of the Bank
are not well adjusted to small poverty-oriented projects, particularly in the case of procurement procedures
for small irrigation works.
9.2    Relationship with "Program 01" of INDAP: From the beginning, this relationship was directly
with the National Director of INDAP and with the Area Chief in the Regions. These latter relationships
had to be established on a practical basis, especially considering the nature of the project as being within
INDAP but separate from the normal functioning of the institution. At the end of the project, the Program
01 had accepted the project as one more activity of INDAP which, in turn, gave room for internal debate
conceming the appropriate means to deal with poverty, leading to the preparation of a proposal for a
program to overcome rural poverty.
9.3    Relationship with the Municipalities: The direct relationship with the Municipalities was of key
importance and the presence of the PAM allowed a more coordinated approach at the local level. This
relationship was not without difficulties, in particular the lack of appropriate staff and institutional capacity
in the Municipalities themselves.
9.4    Relationship with the Regional Governments: This was neither fluid nor direct because the
project had little if any relevance at this level of government and administration and because the short life
of the project did not allow medium- or long-term agreements to be established.
10.   The Future of the Project
10.1   The end of the project coincided with the change in government which added to the policy of not
leaving commitments for the incoming administration meant that no decision was made about the long-term
future of the project. The strategy of the present administration is to incorporate the main elements of the
project into a program that would be implemented not by a special unit (e.g., the UTP) but within the
regular structure of INDAP. The project itself will continue at least through 2001 while the program is
being prepared with a budget essentially unchanged from that of 2000.
11.   Final Considerations
11.1   The project successfully achieved the objective of attacking rural poverty via
environmentally-sustainable activities, within the constraints imposed by the short life of the pilot
operation. This objective is by definition one that can only be fully achieved over the long term. Incomes
were increased and the quality of life improved, based on the significant resources that the project was able
to bring into play, especially in the subsidies provided to beneficiaries. The experience gained indicates
that although the number of components provides an integral approach it also impedes implementation with
a small team in the public sector. The results also show that significant investments must be made if
- 55 -



significant increases in income are to be achieved. The development potential of the small, poor farmers of
the Secano is linked to the provision of irrigation to enable them to achieve a productive base for income
generation. Only after achieving this base can the theme of natural resource conservation be addressed
because the priority is family subsistence.
- 56 -



