LOAN NUMBER 3974-CH
Loan Agreement
(Secano Rural Poverty Alleviation and
Natural Resource Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated               , 1996


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3974-CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       4     )-.Z 2 C$      , 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
CHILE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in thia
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CNR" means Comisi6n Nacional de Riego the Borrower's irrigation agency;
(b) "CONAF" means Corporaci6n Nacional Forestal, the Borrower's forestry
agency;
(c) "CSP" means the commission referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(d) "INDAP" means Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario the Borrower's institute
for agricultural development;
(e) "INIA" means Instituto de Investigaciones Agropecuarias. the Borrower's
institute for agricultural research;


﻿-2-
(f)  "MBN" means iinisterio de Bienes Nacionales, the Borrower's Ministry of
National Property;
(g) "MIDEPLAN" means Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Cooperaci6n, the Borrower's
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation;
(h) "MINAGRI" means Ministerio de Agricultura the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture;
(i) "MOP" means Ministerio de Obras Piublicas, the Borrower's Ministry of Public
Works;
(j)  "ODEPA" means Oficina de Estudios y Politicas Agrarias the Borrower's office
of agricultural studies and policies;
(k) "Off-farm Beneficiaries" means the small farmers' families and rural enterprises
in the Selected Municipalities who will receive financing under Part B.1 of the Project,
pursuant to the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual;
(1) "POA" means any of the annual programs referred to in Section 3.05 of his
Agreement;
(M) "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank,
to be issued pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, containing,
inter alia, the operating procedures for the execution of the Project, the terms and
conditions for the financing of the activities under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 and B.1 of the
Project, the criteria for Off-farm Beneficiaries' eligibiiity, the terms of reference for the
carrying out of Part A of the Project, the procedures for selection of consultants for the
carrying out of Part C.2 of the Project, the description of the arrangements among
INDAP, Off-farm Beneficiaries and other agencies participating in the execution of the
Project, the terms of reference for UTP's key personnel, and Project monitoring indicators
and targets;
(n) "Secano" means the area of about 3,500,000 hectares within the dryland areas
of the Cordillera de la Costa, in the territory of the Borrower's Regions VI to VIII;
(o) "Selected Municipalities" means the Borrower's administrative subdivisions
(comunas) of Navidad, La Estrella, Lolol, Curepto, Pelluhue, Coelemu, Portezuelo and
Trehuaco, located in the Secano, and any other comuna, located in the Secano, acceptable
to the Bank;


﻿-3-
(p) "Selected Micro-regions" means the following geographical areas within the
Selected Municipalities, which have common agro-ecological and climatic conditions,
including at least one micro-catchment area, and a population with common cultural
characteristics: Navidad, La Estrella, Lolol, Curepto, Chovell6n, Guarilihue and
Portezuelo-Trehuaco, and any other area, within the Selected Municipalities, acceptable
to the Bank;
(q) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement; and
(r) "UTP" means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars
a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2000 or such later date as
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Interest
Payment Date.
(ii) "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.05 of this
Agreement.
(iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value the first day of
such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value
the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum.
(iv) "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average margin,
for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
(c) The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the LIBOR
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d) Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may
modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not
yet withdrawn upon not less than six months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.
The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said


﻿-5-
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on January
15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project,
through INDAP, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural, engineering and environmental practices and the
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and the POAs, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish, and maintain until completion of the
Project, a commission (the CSP), to be chaired by the Director of INDAP and to have as
permanent members the Director of ODEPA and the government authorities (Intendentes)
of the Borrower's Regions VI, VII and VIII, and with the participation, as required, of
representatives of any entity which the Director of INDAP may deem to be necessary,
such as MBN, MOP, CNR, INIA, CONAF and MIDEPLAN, for the purposes of: (a)
providing guidance in respect of the strategy for Project implementation; and (b) making
recommendations in respect of: (i) POAs and corresponding budgets; (ii) rules, procedures
and operational mechanisms required for the carrying out of Parts A. 1, A.2, A.3 and B. 1
of the Project; (iii) guidelines for the studies and technical assistance under the Project;
(iv) the carrying out of the Project, based on the evaluations of the progress of the Project
and the Project beneficiaries' participation in the execution thereof; and (v) coordination
of the Project activities with other national or regional activities related to poverty
alleviation.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause INDAP to establish, and maintain until
completion of the Project, a unit (the UTP) to provide technical, managerial and
administrative support in respect of the execution of the Project, such unit to have staff,
responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, all the funds, facilities, staff
and resources required by the UTP to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a
timely and efficient manner.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31 of each year until
completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank a program, satisfactory to the Bank (the
POA), for the execution of the Project in the year in question.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than August 31, 1996, establish and
thereafter maintain a system, satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor the execution of the
Project.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than March 15 of each year (except in 1998),
until completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress in the execution
of the Project during the calendar year preceding the date of such report.
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than April 30 of each year until completion of
the Project, review with the Bank the progress in the execution of the Project, based on
the monitoring indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and the reports
referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement. The Borrower shall, not later than March
31, 1998, submit to the Bank a report, prepared under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank by consultants acceptable to the Bank, evaluating the progress in the execution
of the Project and the performance by Lne Borrower of its obligations under this
Agreement until the date of such ieport, and recommending any measures that may be
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof. Such report shall be reviewed by the Borrower and the Bank during
the review that will take place not later than April 30, 1998, and the Borrower shall
promptly take all measures that may be recommended by the Bank as a result of such
review.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:


﻿-7-
(a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of
the Project; and
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account


﻿-8-
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such
audit contains a seiarate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than two months after the Effective
Date, furnish to the Bank evidence that the UTP has adopted the accounting procedures
required to enable the Borrower to comply with the provisions of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Project Implementation Manual has been issued by the Borrower;
(b) the CSP and the UTP have been established; and
(c) the POA for 1996 has been furnished to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date <' L.L   &,,,26        , 1996 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 o the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.             248423 (MCI) or
64145 (MCI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By ~9I-$L                          LLc
{/                            Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Countersigned on behalf of the
Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile
A/uth -ized Representative
Countersigned on behalf of the
Controller General of the Republic of Chile
Authrized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                      Dollars)            to be Financed
(1) Works (other than                2,650,000         50%
those under Part
B.1 of the Project)
(2) Consultants' services            3,650,000         100% of foreign
under Part C of the                               expenditures and
Project                                            55% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants'                     3,750,000         100% of foreign
services (other                                   expenditures
than under Parts                                   and 92% of local
C and G of the                                    expenditures
Project)
(4) Training                         1,000,000         100%
(5) Goods and works                  2,800,000         88%
under Part B.1
of the Project
(6) Consultants'                     1,150,000         92%
services, goods
and operating costs
under Part G of
the Project
TOTAL                     15,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "operating costs" means costs incurred by UTP in its activities under
the Project for communications and office and vehicle maintenance.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $180,000, may be made in respect
of Category (6) of the table in paragraph I above, on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after December 31, 1995.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods; (b) works
costing less than $350,000 equivalent; (c) consulting firms' services costing less than
$100,000 equivalent; and (d) individual consultants' services costing less than $50,000
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to find reliable solutions for the alleviation of rural
poverty in the Secano through the adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems,
based on sound natural resource management, and the development of off-farm income
generating activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Promotion of rational natural resource use and sustainable agriculture in the Selected
Micro-regions through:
1.  construction of small irrigation schemes to irrigate about 1,300 hectares of land
dispersed among the Micro-regions, using primarily furrow-type irrigation;
2.  adoption of rainfed farming techniques and control of on-farm erosion, including
gully stabilization measures, on about 3,700 hectares of land in the Selected Micro-regions
(of which about 1,800 hectares of land are used for vineyards), consisting of: (a)
introduction of improved seeds and better adapted crop varieties; (b) more rational
fertilizer use and weed control; (c) introduction of practices to capture rainfall which, by
reducing water run-off, decrease soil erosion; and (d) improved land preparation and
cultivation techniques;
3.  improvements in pasture and livestock production, including, inter alia, provision of
fences, seeds and fertilizers for natural pasture management in an area of about 6,700
hectares, and establishment of improved pasture on an area of about 3,500 hectares of
erosion-prone lands;
4.  forestry development on very fragile lands, consisting of silvo-pastoral development
on an area of about 2,800 hectares, forestation on an area of about 3,700 hectares, and
woodland renovation on an area of about 90 hectares; and
5.  the inclusion of the Secano natural resource management in MINAGRI's geographic
information system.


﻿- 14 -
Part B:
1.  A program to finance off-farm activities in the Selected Municipalities, such as
handicrafts, cottage industries and agro-industries, aiming at creating alternative income
sources for the Off-farm Beneficiaries and promoting regional economic development.
2.  Improyements in rural infrastructure in the Selected Municipalities, primarily in rural
feeder roads and marketing facilities.
Part C:
1.  Technology transfer adapted to small farmers' needs, emphasizing natural resource
management.
2.  Carrying out of adaptive agricultural and forestry/agro-forestry research to modify
and develop technological packages to small farmer conditions in the Secano.
Part D:
1.  Provision of technical assistance: (a) to complement UTP's activities; (b) to
strengthen the Selected Municipalities' capacity to identify, formulate and manage projects
within the Selected Municipalities; and (c) to strengthen and establish Project
beneficiaries' organizations.
2.  A training program for INDAP staff and small farmers in the Selected Micro-regions
in the techniques required for the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project.
Part E:
Regularization of property rights of about 1,200 farmers.
Part F:
Carrying out of studies to: (a) assess the Secano's renewable natural resources,
including a hydro-geological survey; (b) recommend guidelines and legislative measures
for natural resource protection within MINAGRI's jurisdiction; and (c) to analyze
agricultural marketing constraints and options.


﻿- 15 -
Part G:
Support to the UTP, through the provision of consultants' services and acquisition
of equipment, in its activities under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2000.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 2001
through January 15, 2011                       750,000
*     The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:      Specific Procurement Procedures
1.  National Competitive Bidding
Works (other than those under Part B.1 of the Project) estimated to cost $350,000
equivalent or more per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, and pursuant to standard
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.  Shopping
Goods (other than those under Part B.1 of the Project) shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures, at the
option of the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
3. Procurement of Small Works
Works (other than those under Part B.1 of the Project) estimated to cost less than
$350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,100,000,
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience
and resources to complete the contract successfully.


﻿- 18 -
4.  Procurement of Goods and Works under Part B.1 of the Project
The procurement of goods and works under Part B. 1 of the Project to be undertaken
by Off-farm Beneficiaries shall be carried out in accordance with local private sector
practices acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of
said paragraph 1.
2. Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply to all contracts to be awarded pursuant to Part B.1 above.
3. Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms
acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less


﻿- 19 -
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of $1,000,000 to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $5,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to para-


﻿- 21 -
graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents anc other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts


﻿- 22 -
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FORStC        ARY


