Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER:  H1380 MAI 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Health Sector Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 7, 2005 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER:  H1380 MAI 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS  (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
The Association received from the Recipient the following documents: 
(i) Malawi National Health Plan 1999 
–
2004 dated May 1999; (ii) Malawi Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper dated April 2002; and (iii) a six-year Program of Work (PoW) 
dated July 2004, collectively describing a program of objectives, policies and actions 
designed to provide essential health care package of services to the poor, women and 
children (the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; 
 
(C) 
the Recipient intends to obtain from various Collaborating Partners  
(as hereinafter defined) grants and loans to assist in financing the Program;  
 
(D) 
the Recipient, the Association and the Pool Fund Partners 
 
(as hereinafter defined) have entered into a memorandum of understanding (the 
Memorandum of Understanding) providing for common procedures on procurement, 
disbursement, financial management, cooperation and exchange of information and 
monitoring and evaluation; and  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Collaborating Partners” means collectively national or international 
agencies contributing funds or technical assistance to the Program, and are signatories to 
the MOU; 
 
(b) 
“District” means a local government area established pursuant to the 
Regional and District Boundaries and Place Names Act, Chapter 18:04 of the laws of the 
Recipient; 
(c) 
“District Assembly” means an assembly established pursuant to the 
Local Government Act, Chapter 22:01 of the Laws of the Recipient for the administration 
of a local government; 
(d) 
“District Health Management Team” means a committee established to 
plan, budget and implement health services activities at District and community levels; 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services provided under a Subprogram for pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, medical 
equipment, civil works and operating costs for medical and support facilities, consulting 
and audit services, training, office supplies, vehicle and equipment operation, travel, 
salaries, per diem and supervision costs, and other expenditures under such Subprogram; 
(f) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means 
the framework dated October 2004 issued by the Recipient and outlining the 
environmental and social screening procedures to be followed during implementation of 
the Project including potential environmental and social risks and adverse impacts of the 
Project along with proposed mitigation measures; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(g) 
“EHP” means essential health package, a package of health services 
identified in the Program as priority services that should be available to every Malawian; 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing 
July 1 and ending June 30 the following year; 
(j) 
“Malawi Social Action Fund” means the institution established with the 
Recipient’s Office of the President and Cabinet to support and oversee community driven 
development; 
(k) 
“Pool Fund Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(l) 
"Pool Fund Partners" means donors pooling at least part of their funds 
into the Pool Fund Account and having signed the Memorandum of Understanding;  
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
October 27, 2004 covering the initial 12 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 12 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(n) 
“Project Affected Person” or “PAP” means any person who owns or 
occupies land, property or other assets or structures which are adversely affected by the 
Project, or whose livelihood, business, trade or other occupation is adversely affected as a 
result of the Project, and who is declared accordingly eligible to compensation or other 
assistance under the RPF (as hereinafter defined); 
(o) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.4 (a) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; 
(p) 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Resettlement 
Policy Framework, dated May 2004 issued by the Recipient, and describing the rules and 
procedures to designed to provide prompt and effective compensation at full replacement 
costs for PAPs for losses of assets or access to assets important for production, loss of 
land or land use, negative impact on livelihood, and loss of shelter attributable directly to 
the Project;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(q) 
“Senior Management Committee” means the committee referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and responsible for, 
inter alia
,
coordinating 
overall Project implementation; 
(r) 
"Subprogram" means the program of activities included in the Program 
to be carried out in each Fiscal Year, as agreed upon between the Recipient, the 
Association and the Pool Fund Partners;  
(s) 
“Top Management Committee” means the committee referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and responsible for, 
inter alia
,
providing 
strategic guidance for over all Project implementation; and 
(t) 
“Village Health Committee” means a committee established to 
participate in identification and implementation of health services interventions, and 
manage and monitor health services at village and community levels. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR10,100,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for a Subprogram and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 15, 2008 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in Dollars or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on March 31 
and September 30 in each year.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through its Ministry of Health with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, social and public 
health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
Page  7
-
6
-
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Program.  
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association); (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 (a) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Program, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Program implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Program 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Program, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Program through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
 
 
 
 
(A)  
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of 
any grant or loan made to the Recipient for the financing 
of the Program shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefor; or 
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Program are available to the Recipient from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Recipient under this Agreement. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 30049 
Lilongwe 3 
Malawi 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINANCE 
  44407 
(MI) 
 (265) 
789173 
 
Lilongwe 
For the Association: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Lilongwe, Republic of Malawi as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
By /s/ Goodall Gondwe 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Hartwig Schafer 
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
CATEGORY
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) 
Subprograms 
10,100,000 
Such percentage of 
Eligible Expenditures as 
the Association may 
determine for each Fiscal 
Year 
 
Total            
 
10,100,000 
 
========  
 
2. 
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of: 
(a) 
 payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR1,010,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after October 29, 2004;   
(b)  
a Subprogram, unless such Subprogram has been approved by the 
Association in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 6 and 7 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
payments made for expenditures for goods, works or consultants’ 
services supplied under a contract which the Association or any national or international 
Page  13
-
12
-
financing institution or agency, other than the Pool Fund Partners, shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under any other credit or grant.   
4. 
(a) 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of reports specified in Part B.3 of this Schedule to be submitted to the 
Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of this Schedule (Report Based Disbursements).   
(b) 
(i) 
The Recipient may also request payments to be made directly to 
 
a supplier or consultant for goods, works, and
 consultants’ 
 
services included in a Subprogram, or to such supplier’s or 
 
consultant’s commercial bank, to guarantee the letter of credit 
 
issued by such commercial bank, using the Association’s Special 
 
Commitment procedures for the full amount of such requested 
 
payments.  Subsequent disbursements to finance Subprograms 
 
during the remainder of the Fiscal Year will be reduced by a 
 
corresponding amount to offset direct disbursements and 
 
amounts disbursed under Special Commitment procedures. 
(ii) 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant  
 
Account to be   made on the basis of statements of expenditure  
 
for goods, works, and consultants’ services included in    
 
Subprograms, under such terms and conditions as the  
 
 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Pool Fund Account
1. 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Program, open and maintain in Dollars an 
account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Pool Fund 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Pool Fund Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
this Part B.  
3. 
Each request for withdrawal from the Grant Account shall be made on the basis 
of the reports referred to in Part A.4 (a) of this Schedule, such reports to include the FMR 
and other information as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient; 
provided, however, that in the case of the first request for withdrawal submitted to the 
Association, before any withdrawal has been made from the Grant Account, the Recipient 
shall submit to the Association only a statement with the projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such 
request.    
Page  14
-
13
-
4. 
Upon receipt of each request for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Pool Fund Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; or (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part B.3 of this Schedule applicable to such withdrawal request, is required 
to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such reports. 
5. 
Amounts deposited by the Association into the Pool Fund Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments for Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the 
Recipient out of the Pool Fund Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
6. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Pool Fund Account:  
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part B.3 of this Schedule adequately provide the information required for Report Based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Pool Fund Account; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the 
basis of Report Based Disbursements.  
7. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Pool Fund 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Pool Fund Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and 
shall notify the Recipient of its determination. 
Page  15
-
14
-
8. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Pool Fund Account using Grant proceeds was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the Pool Fund Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Pool Fund Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any Grant proceeds on 
deposit in the Pool Fund Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six month period following such determination, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
proceeds. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the Grant proceeds on deposit in the Pool Fund Account.  
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 8 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to support the Recipient’s Program to improve 
the effectiveness, efficiency and quality of the essential health care delivery system 
provided to the poor, women and children. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Quality of Health Care Services
Carrying out of Subprograms to increase coverage of and access to quality health 
services through: (a) extending the provision of EHP services to cover rural and 
disadvantaged Districts and poorest and vulnerable population including women and 
children; (b) carrying out of programs to sensitize and mobilize communities; (c) 
establishment of standards and packages of health care to be delivered to communities, 
health centers, District and central hospitals; (d) enhancement of staff performance and 
strengthening of health workers and management skills; (e) enhancing the effective 
delivery of EHP through sustainable acquisition of logistics, pharmaceuticals, medical 
and laboratory equipment; and (f) rehabilitation of facilities to support delivery of EHP. 
Part B:
Human Resources Development and Management
Carrying out of Subprograms to alleviate the severe shortage of human resources 
in the health sector including: (a) recruitment of staff to fill vacancies; (b) strengthening 
the ability of the health sector to retain staff; (c) provision of adequate training including 
medical waste management training; (d) equitable distribution of health workers, 
particularly, in disadvantaged rural Districts; (e) mitigation of the Human Immuno-
Deficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) impact on health 
workers; (f) acquisition of anti retroviral vaccines for health workers; and (g) improving 
the delivery of EHP services at community level. 
Part C:
Strengthening Health Support and Referral Systems
Carrying out of Subprograms to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
health system and the referral network to support delivery of EHP including:  
1. 
Strengthening the institutional structure to enhance central support for the 
delivery of EHP through: (a) development of and implementation of policies; (b) 
Page  17
-
16
-
development and implementation of coordination and regulatory frameworks; (c) 
establishment of organizational structures; (d) development of procurement and financial 
management systems; (e) development and provision of training programs; and (f) 
development of information and monitoring and evaluation systems. 
2. 
Strengthening coordination and planning to ensure sustainable financial, human 
and other resources necessary for effective delivery of EHP in the Districts through: (a) 
orientation of staff and other stakeholders on the Program and the concept of EHP; (b) 
development of District implementation and financial management plans; (c) acquisition 
of drugs, equipment and supplies; (d) development and implementation of an effective 
communication and referral framework; (e) effective execution of routine operations by 
District Health Management Teams; (f) strengthening of community participation; and 
(g) establishment of effective linkage to Malawi Social Action Fund and provision of 
technical advisory services to District Assemblies. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 15, 2008. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, medical 
equipment estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the Recipient’s Procurement Act of 2003. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Con
sultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
Consultants services estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract may be 
procured in accordance under contracts awarded in accordance with the Recipient’s 
Procurement Act of 2003. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contracts for goods and works procured on the basis of direct contracting; (b) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and each 
contract for medical equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or  
more;  (c) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more;  
(d) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000
 
or more; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $1,000 or more and procured on the basis of single source 
selection. In addition, with respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
qualifications and experience of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the 
Association. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.     
 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
I. 
Overall Project Oversight
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project 
a
Top Management Committee which shall be chaired by the Principal Secretary for 
Health and include Directors at the Ministry of Health, Secretary to the Treasury, 
Secretary for Economic Planning and Development and Secretary for Local Government. 
2. 
The Top Management Committee shall provide strategic guidance for Project 
implementation. 
 3. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project 
a
Senior Management Committee which shall be chaired by the Principal Secretary for 
Health and include Directors and their deputies at Ministry of Health, heads of central 
hospitals, registrars of professional councils and program managers.  
4. 
The Senior Management Committee shall: (a) approve annual work plans and 
budget; and (b) coordinate overall Project implementation. 
II. Project 
Administration 
and 
Management
5. 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures set 
out in the Memorandum of Understanding and the Procurement Plan, and, except as the 
Association and the Pool Fund Partners shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association and 
the Pool Fund Partners, such amendment, abrogation or waiver may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.  
6. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of 
the Project or such later date as the Association may agree, commencing on March 31, 
2005,  furnish to the Association for its approval each proposed Subprograms to be 
carried out in the following Fiscal Year, modified in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, taking into account its comments and views on the matter; 
 
(b) 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, each such Subprograms in 
accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding and  the Procurement Plan; and 
Page  21
-
20
-
(c) 
not make any material change to the approved Subprograms without 
consultation with the Pool Fund Partners and the Association. 
7. 
Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Association shall not approve any proposal for a Subprogram furnished to it pursuant to 
subparagraph 6 (a) above unless and until: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient shall have prepared and furnished to the Association an 
operational plan for the Subprogram, setting forth, inter alia, the activities to be carried 
out, any policy reforms and other measures to be implemented, the expenditures to be 
incurred, the sources of financing of such expenditures and the procurement plan to be 
followed; and 
 
(b) 
the Association shall have been satisfied with the progress made to date 
in the carrying out of the current activities under the Subprogram in accordance with 
annual indicators agreed upon with the Pool Fund Partners.  
8. 
District Health Management Teams established in each district shall be 
responsible for organizing the local provision of health services at the community level in 
a
manner consistent with the terms of reference set forth in the PoW.  The teams shall 
prepare annual plans and budgets for their districts. 
III. 
Environmental and Social Measures
9. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carryout the 
Project in accordance with the ESMF and RPF, and shall not amend or waive, or permit 
to be amended or waived, the ESMF, RPF or any provisions thereof in a manner which, 
in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation 
of Project.  
10. 
Without limitation upon the Recipient’s other reporting obligations under Section 
4.02 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall submit biannually consolidated reports on 
compliance with environmental and social safeguard measures under the Project, giving 
details of measures taken in furtherance of the RPF and the mitigation measures specified 
in the ESMF, and conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten implementation of the 
RPF or the mitigation measures specified in the ESMF, and remedial measures taken or 
required to be taken to address such conditions. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
IV. 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
11. 
The Recipient shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators referred to Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association and the Pool Fund Partners: (i) by April 30 of  
each year of implementation of the Project or such later date as the Association may 
agree, commencing on April 30, 2005, the health sector budget to be submitted by the 
Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Finance for the following Fiscal Year; (ii) by 
August 31 of each year of Project implementation, or such later date as the Association 
may agree, commencing on August 31, 2005, the annual budget of the Ministry of Health 
that is approved by Parliament; and (iii) by September 30 of each year of implementation 
of the Project or such later date as the Association may agree, commencing on September 
30, 2005, an annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Project during the previous Fiscal Year and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date, and the report of actual 
expenditures against the budget for the previous Fiscal Year. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Association: 
1. 
% of health facilities able to provide EHP services. 
2. 
% of population within  easy reach of EHP services. 
3. 
% of actually received government budget allocation to health services. 
4. 
% of facilities without 7-day stockouts of EHP drugs. 
5. 
% immunized infants under the age of one. 
6. 
% of births handled by skilled attendants. 
7. 
% tuberculosis cases cured. 
8. 
Finalization of a comprehensive human resources management plan. 
9. 
% of facilities with minimum staffing norms. 
10. 
% of staffing positions filled. 
11. 
% of Program budget allocated to health centers. 
12. 
% of facilities regularly supervised by the District Health Management Team. 
13. 
Number of Village Health Committees established and functioning as evidence 
of community participation in delivery of EHP. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Modifications to the General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject 
to any modifications set forth in such agreement.”  
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
which the Grant is made.” 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial 
Payment”. 
Page  25
-
24
-
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under 
the Development Grant Agreement”. 
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it 
under the Development Grant Agreement in the currency 
specified in such agreement or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be 
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
(d) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay 
under the Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without 
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient.” 
7. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 
is replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive”. 
Page  26
-
25
-
8. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the Development 
Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by, 
or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
9. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant 
Agreement.” 
 
