Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB862 
Project Name 
Health Sector Support Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P083401 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Health, Government of Malawi 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 15, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
June 6, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
December 14, 2004 
1. 
Country and sector issues 
 
The social, human capital and income indicators in Malawi are among the poorest in the world, 
with a per capita GDP of US$170 and about 55 percent of the population living below the 
national poverty line.  Despite average per capita GDP growth rates of 3.7% between 1990-2001, 
Malawi still ranks 163rd of the 173 countries included in the Human Development Index (UNDP 
2001). 
 
Poor health indicators but some progress:
 
The health status indicators in Malawi have been 
viewed as extremely poor, particularly given the apparent higher levels of health expenditures in 
Malawi compared to its neighboring countries.  But the picture is, in fact, more nuanced.  Life 
expectancy has in the past few years declined to 39 years, mainly as a result of the impact of the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic.  It is estimated that 49% of children under the age of five years may be 
clinically malnourished or stunted (NSO, 2001), primarily due to the recent droughts in the 
country.  Infant mortality and child mortality remain high at 104 and 189 per 1000 live births, 
respectively, while the maternal mortality rate has been estimated at 1120 deaths per 100,000 
live births (2000).  On the other hand, Malawi has done well in improving the overall coverage 
and the delivery of some key health services, such as child immunization, Directly-Observed 
Treatment (DOTS) for tuberculosis, and insecticide treated bed-nets (ITNs) for malaria.  
Malawi’s health indicators are now broadly comparable to its neighbors, with a high 
concentration of morbidity and mortality in the 1-5 year age group for which workable technical 
solutions, preventive and/or curative, are available. 
 
Systemic problems: 
 Achieving the health Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) remains a 
major challenge for Malawi, particularly given the poor macroeconomic environment with 
increasing levels of poverty, the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and the critical shortage of human 
resources in the health sector (vacancies in established government posts are up to 50% at some 
government, religious mission and NGO-run institutions).  The difficulty in achieving the MDG 
goals is compounded by the high rates of fertility and under-nutrition, poor supply and access to 
pharmaceuticals, and the fragmented health care delivery system.  Access to health services 
Page  2
remains modest with only 54% of the rural population (compared to the richer urban population, 
which has 84% access) having access to formal health services within a 5-kilometer radius, 
significant regional variations, only 10% of the health care facilities having the services and staff 
necessary to deliver the Essential Health Package (EHP), and poor client perceptions of the 
public health care delivery systems.  Paradoxically, the use of health services delivered by the 
public and non-profit private sector remains high.   
 
A
key challenge for the Ministry of Health (MOH), therefore, is to strengthen the performance of 
the district health systems and to develop integrated health programs to deliver the EHP, 
particularly given the government’s intention of decentralizing the provision of public services.  
At the same time, the stewardship capacity at the central level needs to be enhanced so that the 
MOH can reliably formulate and review policies, coordinate implementation and provide support 
to the district health management teams.  Despite these many challenges, however, the successes 
noted above suggest that Malawi has the potential, with appropriate financial and technical 
support from its international partners, to make progress towards attaining the MDGs. 
 
Significant client commitment:
 
In 1995, the Government of Malawi (GOM), supported by its 
partners, initiated a Medium Term Health Expenditure Framework (MTEF), which was 
instrumental in increasing the annual government health expenditures from 6-9% in the 1990s to 
a
high 12-15% by 2001.  Malawi also received Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) funds 
that are in part being channeled to the health sector.  The Malawi National Health Plan (1999-
2004), the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)  (PRSP, 2002), and the recently published 
six-year Program of Work (PoW), 2003-2009) of the MOH collectively provide a convincing 
framework for targeting an essential health package of services to the poor The  Essential Health 
Package (EHP) guides the sectoral priorities at all levels, and also tries to promote an integrated 
approach as opposed to the existing independent vertical disease control programs Improved 
access to the EHP is considered key to the improvement of the “health status of Malawians by 
reducing the incidence of illness and occurrence of premature deaths in the population,” thereby 
contributing to “the achievement of sustainable poverty reduction through the enhancement of 
human capital development” (PRSP, 2002). 
 
2. Objectives 
 
Development Objective:
 
As noted, the overall objective of the government’s SWAp program for 
the sector is to improve the effectiveness, efficiency and equity of the essential health care 
delivery system in Malawi.  Within this general context, three key aspects of the sector stand out 
as requiring particular attention if the SWAp is to succeed.  These are:  a) human resources, 
where there is a danger of the human resource situation slipping into an emergency crisis if 
substantial steps are not taken, b) ensuring the provision of the essential package of services – 
the minimum required – throughout the country, and c) strengthening the support and referral 
systems relevant to this package of services. 
Principal outputs and outcomes: 
 The principal outputs expected are:  (a) Improved availability 
of quality health care and EHP for the poor and vulnerable populations; (b) Improved human 
resources, especially skilled personnel; (c) Strengthened health systems through equitable health 
financing, increased human resources, reliable pharmaceutical and supplies logistics and 
effective monitoring and evaluation; (d) Enhanced capacity of MOH for stewardship and policy 
Page  3
development; (e) Strengthened District Health Management systems for planning, budgeting and 
delivery of  quality health services; and (f) Community participation in the delivery of essential 
health interventions. 
It is anticipated that these outputs would contribute to the ultimate goal of the health sector in 
Malawi, which is to address the three MDGs of reducing child mortality, improving maternal 
health and - linking with MASAF - contribute to the reduction of poverty by protecting the 
poorest and the vulnerable from economic loss due to ill health and disability.  The project would 
also contribute to the achievement of a fourth MDGs - that of combating HIV/AIDS - by 
working in concert with the Bank’s MAP project grant (P073821) and related initiatives, such as 
the support being provided by the Global Fund. 
 
Agreed upon outcome indicators for assessing the long-term impact of the HSSP are as follows 
(to be measured in aggregate and disaggregated by income, gender and geography): 
 
x
Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) 
x
Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) 
x
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate/Total Fertility Rate (CPR/TFR) 
x
Prevalence of HIV in Ante-Natal Clinic Clients and among the youth 
x
%
of
low birth weight (LBW) newborns 
 
The following output indicators are proposed to monitor the Bank project components: 
 
·
Overall: Proportion of GOM budget allocated to/received by the health sector at the 
national and district levels; Trends in per capita government allocations to the health sector; 
%
of health facilities with ability to effectively provide EHP; Proportion of population 
within easy reach of EHP. 
 
·
Delivery of EHP:  % facilities without 7-day stockouts of essential EHP drugs; % fully 
immunized at 1year; % births attended by skilled attendant; TB cure rates. 
 
·
Human Resource and Management: Comprehensive HRM plan; % facilities with minimum 
staffing norms; % established positions filled; % new graduates from training colleges 
employed in the health sector in Malawi. 
 
·
Health Support and Referral Systems:  % facilities offering EmOC ; Proportion of MOH 
budget allocated to districts; Proportion of budget allocated to health centers; % facilities 
regularly supervised by DHMT; No. of VHCs established and functioning as evidence of 
community participation in delivery of EHP. 
 
Poverty focus:
 
Delivery of the EHP to each citizen is at the core of the Government of Malawi’s 
health strategy and therefore of the SWAp. Consistent with international best practice, the EHP 
targets the most important health problems of the poor. It fits within the policy and strategy 
framework contained in the National Health Plan, the “Vision 2020” document, and the Malawi 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).  Importantly, while the objectives of these policy 
Page  4
documents are relatively broad, they do include the intention to adapt the MOH’s role to that of 
“steward” of the sector rather than direct service provider, in the context of decentralization. 
 
Efficient and equitable access:
 
The design of the EHP as both a rationing and targeting strategy 
for health interventions provides an opportunity for the efficient and equitable utilization of 
health resources.  Furthermore, it is possible to identify a poverty-focused hierarchy of objectives 
in the national policy and strategies.  Thus, 
improved access to, and quantity, quality and cost-
effectiveness of EHP-related services 
contributes to 
improved health status for all Malawians
,
which in turn supports 
sustainable reduction in poverty 
 –
where the italics are national 
objectives as expressed in GOM’s own wording.  This structure is explicitly focused on poverty 
reduction and equity.    
 
Relevance to objectives of CAS, Bank HNP strategy, and Africa HNP Strategic Priorities: 
 The 
Bank’s 2003 Malawi Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), building on the PRSP, makes 
improved health status in Malawi a priority for poverty reduction.  The CAS identified the need 
for renewed engagement of the Bank in the health sector and provided for a US$15 million IDA 
grant to support a new health project, supported by a modest allocation for analytical work.  The 
project, as described below, is also in conformity with the Bank’s Health, Nutrition and 
Population (HNP) strategy and the HNP Strategic Priorities outlined by the African region.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Client initiatives in sector:
 
Recognizing the recent move to strengthen the MOH’s stewardship 
role, while devolving responsibility for the management of health programs to the elected 
district-level authorities, and in order to promote greater cohesion in the health sector, harmonize 
donor support, and ensure a more targeted and equitable delivery of health services, MOH is 
developing a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) in health.  The six-year PoW for the proposed 
SWAp, prepared through a consultative process, has received enthusiastic support from key 
domestic and international stakeholders.  The consultative approach adopted by the MOH in 
designing the SWAp presents an opportunity for broad-based ownership and partnership in the 
implementation of the EHP.   
 
The Local Government Act (CAP 22.01) provides the necessary legal framework for the 
decentralization policy, which will facilitate the participation of the poor in health planning and 
decision-making through existing democratic structures.  Over the years, GOM has also 
strengthened its partnership with non-governmental organizations (NGOs), most importantly by 
the recent signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Christian Health 
Association of Malawi (CHAM), which provides over 25% of all health services in Malawi.  The 
signing of this MOU, which has been strongly endorsed by the collaborating partners, offers a 
genuine opportunity for the enhancement of collaborative efforts aimed at increasing access to 
the EHP by the poor, and provides a basis for objective resource allocation to non-government 
providers of health.  Furthermore, the introduction of service–agreements intra-and extra-district 
for the provision of the EHP to underserved areas should help in increasing access to the EHP.  
Finally, the resource allocation formula now in place is a step in the right direction towards 
adopting a “needs-based” approach to health care provision, as it takes into consideration the 
population, existing infrastructure, and poverty levels in the various districts in Malawi. 
 
Page  5
Request for IDA Assistance:  
To finance the PoW, GOM has sought assistance from its 
development partners, including IDA, and has already received initial support from the major 
donors 
–
DfID and the Kingdom of Norway - with the expectation of further commitments from 
the African Development Bank (AfDB) and other bilateral and multilateral donors.  Also, there 
has been a strong demand from the GOM and other development partners for policy advice and 
analytical support from the Bank. 
 
IDA’s comparative advantage:
 
The Bank has been a strong supporter of SWAps in the health 
sector in a substantial number of African and Asian countries with generally encouraging results.  
The Bank has also been a key driving force behind the PRSP.  With the only previous Bank 
health project having closed in 2000, a well-implemented LIL for Population and Family 
Planning (Pop/FP) having closed on December 31, 2003, and a limited health presence in the 
country office (which has only been remedied very recently), IDA’s contribution to the sector 
dialogue in Malawi has been limited.  Since work has been ongoing on the SWAp for 2-3 years, 
IDA is also a late entrant in the SWAp discussions.  In order to enhance the development impact, 
it would be appropriate for the Bank to provide technical input and help bridge the financing gap 
in the proposed health SWAp.  The GOM and the partners would strongly support such an 
initiative. 
 
Need for continuing support: 
 It should be noted, though, that the proposed IDA grant of US$15 
million over three years, while demonstrating the Bank’s support for the SWAp (that could 
potentially also leverage other funds), is considerably smaller than the amounts indicated by 
DfID ($60 million) and the Kingdom of Norway ($25-30 million), and leaves a significant 
financing gap in the sector.  Based on the sectoral performance, additional support to the sector 
could be considered in the future. 
 
4.  Description 
 
The HSSP is expected to achieve the stated development objective over the next three years and, 
based on the foregoing, would strategically have three components, exclusively drawn from the 
PoW
1
:
(a) Support extension of quality health care coverage through delivery of EHP; (b) 
Support human resource development and management; and (c) Strengthen health sector 
support and referral systems
 (see details in Annex 4). In order to maximize its impact, every 
effort will also be made to strengthen the linkages of the HSSP (and the broader SWAp) with the 
ongoing Bank-supported HIV/AIDS program (through the Malawi MAP) and MASAF project. 
 
During the first year of the HSSP, a gradual build up of the joint PoW is expected and the usual 
problems of transition envisaged as the EHP concept is rolled out.  Year two would be used to 
remedy any deficiencies and shortcomings observed during the first year leading to the all 
important Mid-term review (MTR).  The recommendations of the MTR, which shall include 
assessment of the progress against performance indicators, would be used to consolidate the 
gains and ensure that the project is on course during the second half of its life.  
1
The six programs of the six-year PoW, which are largely focused on inputs, have been re-aggregated to a different 
presentation which links inputs more closely to the activities, i.e. the delivery of the essential health package, human 
resources development, and support systems. This re-aggregation does not affect the integrity of the PoW. 
Page  6
Component 1 - Delivery of the EHP:
 
The objective of this component is to improve the health 
status of the Malawian population by increasing access to quality essential health services.  The 
main mechanism for delivering quality care would be by making the already-defined EHP 
accessible to all, but especially in the most rural and disadvantaged districts and to the poorest 
and vulnerable populations.  The component would support community sensitization and 
mobilization as well as establishment of standards and packages of care to be delivered at each 
level 
–
community, health center, district and central hospitals.  In addition, the component will 
also support in-service update of health worker and management skills as a way of improving 
staff performance and strengthening service provision.  Efficient logistics and sustained 
availability of pharmaceuticals, medical and laboratory equipment and supplies, so critical for 
effective delivery of the EHP will also be supported by this component.  The EHP will be 
introduced in an incremental manner by adapting and strengthening existing services to co-opt 
the EHP concept.  It is understood that infrastructural improvement (in the form of rehabilitation, 
refurbishment, etc.) will be needed  to ensure that all health facilities can support the delivery of 
the EHP; however, it is not the intention of this component to rapidly expand the infrastructure 
through the construction of new freestanding health facilities.  Instead, the emphasis will be on 
balancing infrastructural development with ensuring the availability of, 
inter alia
,
adequate staff, 
equipment and supplies. 
 
Component 2 - Human Resources Development and Management:
 
The major thrust of this 
component, in the short term, is on increasing the number of staff available through continuation 
of the six-year emergency training plan, a concerted recruitment campaign, financing and then 
filling current vacancies, the use of volunteers and contract staff and other stop-gap staffing 
strategies.  The component will look comprehensively at the government and the NGO sectors.  
Greater attraction and retention of staff will be achieved by ensuring salaries are paid promptly 
and in full and by increasing the overall remuneration package, though interim measures may be 
required.  In addition, effective implementation of the existing measures for effective HR 
management will be ensured.  Personnel policies will be reviewed to improve working 
conditions.  Staff will be used more effectively by matching posts to workload, developing 
performance management systems and by streamlining the provision of in-service training.  
Support systems will be improved including HR information systems, HR planning (including 
coordination with training institutes), and a review of the current structures managing the HR 
systems.  Technical assistance will be needed to support the strengthening of the HR systems.  
Longer-term Human Resources (HR) strategies include the development of improved career 
structures, and improving recruitment and deployment systems. 
 
Component 3 - Health Sector Support and Referral Systems: 
 
The objective of this component 
is to improve the effectiveness  and  efficiency of both the health system and the referral network 
to support delivery of the EHP.  It will be divided into two subcomponents: 
 (a) Support for 
central operations
 and, 
(b) Support to district operations
.
Greater emphasis will be placed on 
support to operations at district and lower levels.  
 
The sub-component for central operations will strengthen institutional processes aimed at 
enhancing central support to implement the SWAp in delivery of the EHP and for the 
decentralization of the health sector.  The aim is to put in place the policies, coordination and 
Page  7
regulatory frameworks, organizational structures, procurement and financial instruments, 
training programs, and information, monitoring and evaluation systems that would enable the 
MOH to effectively steward the PoW.  The central operations would focus on managing the 
process of decentralization and be geared towards effective support of the devolved district 
health system.  Specific output areas for the subcomponent include:  (i) Policies and planning 
systems to support EHP; (ii) Health financing and financial management systems; (iii) 
Procurement policy and logistical system for drugs, equipment and supplies; (iv) Equitable 
distribution of financial and human resources; (v) Development of standards and quality 
assurance systems; (vi) Supervision, including Zonal support; and (vii) Health information 
systems for monitoring and evaluation. 
 
The sub-component on district operations in the devolved health system will strengthen 
coordination and planning to ensure uninterrupted availability and maintenance of adequate 
financial, material and human resources to deliver effectively the EHP in the districts for both 
MOH and NGO services.  Specific output areas include:  (i) orientation of staff and other 
stakeholders on SWAp and the concept of EHP; (ii) Timely preparation of high quality District 
Implementation Plans (DIPS); (iii) Financial management; (iv) Procurement, storage and 
distribution of adequate drugs equipment and supplies; (v) Effective communication and referral 
framework; (vi) Effective execution of other routine operations by DHMTs; (vii) Strengthening 
community participation and delivery of EHP, including intersectoral linkages; (viii) Effective 
linkages with MASAF; and (ix) Quality technical advice to District Assemblies. 
 
5. 
 
Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 212 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
15 
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
(DFID) 
60 
NORWAY: NORWEGIAN AGENCY FOR DEV. COOP. (NORAD) 
30 
NON-POOLING DONORS 
       375 
Financing Gap 
43 
 Total 
735 
 
6. Implementation 
 
IDA, and the two other development partners (DfID and the Kingdom of Norway) who have 
committed to contributing to a common pool, have worked under Government of Malawi 
leadership to negotiate and agree on a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to govern their 
partnership within the SWAp. This MOU was formally signed by the pooling partners on 
October 29, 2004. Certain other partners are also expected to join the financing pool in the near 
future. The MOU refers to the PoW, overall resource envelope, financing arrangements, 
coordination and monitoring arrangements including joint annual reviews, and a code of conduct 
for partners.  Other donors, who will also sign the MOU, will continue to provide earmarked 
support, but within the confines of the PoW for the SWAp (see details below). 
 
Page  8
The GOM and the pooling partners have agreed on a realistic pace for capacity building and 
institutional change and on a pattern of disbursement linked to progress.  This has given the 
government confidence about donor funding commitments, and given the funders confidence 
that spending will be used for the purposes and within the timetable agreed.  The pattern of 
disbursement is linked to milestones to be agreed as part of the consultation process.  Examples 
of milestones include progress in financial and human resource management systems; human 
resource development; appropriate arrangements for decentralization; civil society’s role in 
monitoring health care delivery; service provision; and development of public-private 
partnerships.  These milestones will be incorporated in a realistic timetable in the Annual 
Implementation Plans. 
 
The indicative approximate financing amounts for the health SWAp from the three agencies 
pooling funds are currently expected to be: DfID 40 million pounds grant; the Kingdom of 
Norway 42 million US dollars grant (currently 23 million US dollars in projects and vertical 
programs, and 19 million US dollars to the pooled funds); and IDA 15 million US dollars grant.  
While IDA will finance the SWAp over a three year period, other agencies will finance it over 
the 5-6 years implementation period.  IDA will also reimburse retroactively its share of the 
eligible SWAp expenditures beginning from October 29, 2004, as soon as the project is effective. 
 
7. 
Institutional and implementation arrangements 
 
The Principal Secretary MOH is overall responsible for SWAp implementation including the 
outputs and quality assurance.  To guide and advise him, a detailed ‘governance’ structure for the 
SWAp has been established.  This structure builds upon and modifies arrangements for 
ministerial and donor coordination that were already operational.  Details are included in the 
MOU, but the line management structures include a Top Management Committee (Ministerial 
level), a Senior Management Committee (Department Director level) – both serviced by the 
SWAp Secretariat – and Departmental Meetings.  On the advisory side, there is a Health Sector 
Review Group (the main donor/government group) with sub-groups on selected key topics.    
 
Within the MOH and CHAM, day-to-day implementation of the SWAp funded activities will be 
implemented by the responsible subject/technical departments and units following the agreed 
detailed annual work plans.  To ensure full ownership and capacity building within the MOH, no 
project implementation unit will be established.  A three person SWAp Secretariat is being 
established, that will deal mainly with the donors, monitoring and evaluation, and facilitate the 
implementation of the SWAp governance structure.  The head of the SWAp Secretariat reports to 
the Director of Planning and the Planning Department will continue to take the lead in the 
substantive aspects of the SWAp, as they have done throughout the preparation process.  The 
Director of Planning is of course responsible for coordination with senior staff and especially the 
Chief Technical Adviser, Department Heads, and with CHAM.   
 
The main risks identified in a procurement capacity assessment undertaken by IDA are 
unfamiliarity with procurement procedures of multilateral financial institutions, inadequate 
procurement systems and unreliable quantification of requirements for health sector goods. 
Given the weak systems and capacities, the large amount of funds involved in the SWAp, the 
complications introduced by the involvement of NGOs in program implementation, and the 
Page  9
challenges of pooling funds have been identified as critical risks for effective financial 
management and internal control.  To promote timely implementation, long-term technical 
assistance in the key areas of financial management and procurement is being implemented.  
Procurement of goods, works and services will be the responsibility of the Head of the (to be 
established) MOH Procurement Unit, working closely with the (to be recruited) Procurement 
Agent/Adviser, the Director of Finance and Director of Planning.  The Director of Finance will 
be responsible for all financial management and accounting matters under the SWAp (Further 
details on financial management and procurement are given in Annexes 7 and 8). 
 
At present, the MOH operates a centralized management system. The four Central Hospitals and 
District Health Teams (including the District Hospitals) are enjoying an increasing level of 
autonomy, but still have only limited  administrative and financial powers.  It is government 
policy that ministries decentralize.  The MOH is in the process of devolving the management of 
Health Centers in the main cities to the city councils.  MOH’s plan is to prepare for full phased 
devolution to the District Assemblies over the coming several years.  Many managerial, 
administrative, political, reporting and communications issues have yet to be addressed – but the 
SWAp will be instrumental in facilitating this process.  Beneficiary consultation and 
involvement will, of course, become more systematic.  Devolution to districts will be a major 
change in the way in which the SWAp is implemented; it will be a focus, among other issues, of 
the annual review process. 
 
The SWAp provides an important vehicle for developing national implementation systems and 
capacity.  The establishment and expansion of common implementation systems is an important 
feature of the SWAp, both to build capacity and to reduce waste on parallel systems and 
procedures.  It is expected that all major donors to the health sector will participate in the SWAp, 
thus offering the opportunity for increased cooperation.  Ultimately, it is hoped that this will 
facilitate and encourage all donors to move towards a common set of implementation procedures 
–
and thence program support – for the government’s total health program.  Compared with 
neighboring countries, there are relatively few donors actively involved in the health sector, 
which will simplify this process.  However, this also makes the sector vulnerable to the very 
frequent changes in individual donor health representatives.  This has slowed preparation and 
remains a risk to effective implementation.     
 
SWAp financing originates from two groups of  sources.  Those partners who are able to pool 
funds (DfID, the Kingdom of Norway and IDA – together with the government of course) and 
those partners who are not.  The latter group will finance health sector activities under the SWAp 
umbrella, but typically using project modalities.  The pooling (or basket) partners will provide 
funds to a common account that is replenished quarterly
2
.
The joint disbursement methods, 
financial management, reporting, procurement, auditing, etc. are formalized in the detailed  
Memorandum of Understanding that has been signed by the pooling partners. Arrangements for 
the non-pooling partners and the pooling partners are described somewhat separately in the 
Memorandum of Understanding (Parts A and B respectively). 
 
2
DFID and the Kingdom of Norway will put the majority of their funds for the pool but, in addition, continue to 
finance a limited number of projects.    
Page  10
A
joint review will be held annually in September.  This will be a major event, the main annual 
program review and will cover overall progress during the preceding year, expenditure and 
audits, procurement progress 
–
and implementation, procurement and other plans for the coming 
year (including the link to the Mid-Term Expenditure Framework [MTEF]).  Pooling partners 
will also agree on their allocations to the pool for the coming year.  A smaller review will take 
place in the off-six months, in February, which will focus more on technical and service related 
issues. 
 
8. Sustainability 
 
Sustainability of the proposed health SWAp needs to viewed from a programmatic and a 
financial perspective.  
 
Programmatic Sustainability 
 
Change from project approach to a sector-wide approach: 
 Promoting a sector-wide approach 
in the planning and financing of the sector signals both the government’s and donors’ willingness 
to do away with the fragmented approach prevalent under the traditional projects, which has 
been shown to distort sector allocation priorities and also to be unsustainable in the long run. 
 
Focusing on government capacity: 
 Rather than creating temporary, separate management 
entities (such as a PIU) which employ parallel systems, procedures and staff, the SWAp also 
focuses attention on developing and strengthening government systems and procedures 
(planning, budgeting, financial management, procurement), and civil service capacity. 
 
Budgetary reform, prioritization and rationalization:
 
The Program supports the budgetary 
reform initiatives under the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).  External resources 
for the health sector, most of which were extra-budgetary, have been increasingly incorporated in 
the MTEF to help clarify the real resource envelope for the sector.  Reform initiatives supported 
under the Project and Program are intended to enhance fiscal predictability and sustainability, as 
well as allocation efficiency in the health sector.  The sustainability of investment costs 
(typically financed by donors) can also be better assessed under the SWAp. 
 
Financial Sustainability 
 
Sustainability of government spending:
 
The sustainability of PoW expenditures and, more 
directly, of MOH expenditures, can best be analyzed in the context of the sustainability of 
overall government spending.  As discussed in detail in Annex 9, the Government succeeded in 
protecting expenditures in health over the past six years (FY97/98 to FY02/03), with a dramatic 
rise in the share of MOH to total government spending occurring in 2001.  MOH  expenditures 
were also protected from erosion due to inflation and population growth.  Thus, real per capita 
MOH spending (at constant 1995 prices) rose from MK60 in FY97/98 to MK85 in FY01/02.  (In 
current terms, these are equivalent to MK103 and MK423, respectively.)   
Although the MOH’s share of government spending has been increasing, it still falls short 
relative to need, and relative to the 15 percent allocation to health that African Governments 
committed themselves to meet in the OAU Summit in April 2001 in Abuja, Nigeria.  The 15 
Page  11
percent target for adequate and sustainable government financing for health would be within 
Malawi’s ability to meet if not for the heavy load of “nondiscretionary” or “unallocable” 
expenditures that the government needs to set aside, mainly to pay off its large domestic debt.  
Nondiscretionary expenditures have ballooned in recent years, accounting for around 23.5 
percent in FY01/02, or an average share of 20.6 percent from FY97/98 to FY01/02.  Because of 
this burden, further expansion in government allocation to the MOH and other social sectors has 
been constrained.  Thus, if the GOM adopts a strategy of bringing domestic borrowings down, 
significantly more domestic resources could be made available for health.  On the other hand, if 
it fails in this area, government discretionary expenditures (including health) could be further 
squeezed, reducing the sustainability of the PoW.     
Fiscal decentralization and the sustainability of PoW investments:
 
It is unclear to what extent 
the PoW expenditures can be sustained at the district level when primary health services are 
eventually devolved to local authorities.  The challenges during this period of transition, and the 
proposed approach for dealing with them, are:  (a) To ensure that local authorities devote as 
much (or more) resources to priority health interventions as the current PoW.   One approach that 
a
number of devolved countries have employed to solve this problem is to establish categorical 
or conditional grants that specify priority activities to be funded.  This has its pros and cons, but 
it ensures that in the short-term, PoW activities are adequately funded;  b) To ensure that fiscal 
transfers to districts are made on an equitable basis, i.e., that no district will be made worse off 
than it was before the devolution.  This requires that the existing district allocation formula be 
reformulated to take account of the resource requirements of assets and personnel actually 
transferred, and health needs that were previously not captured in the “incremental budgeting” 
practice. 
Sustainability of referral services and hospital financing:
 
Although no final decisions have 
been made, discussions with MOH policymakers revealed the following:  (a) their interest in 
pursuing social health insurance as one mechanism for providing much-needed financing for 
catastrophic and referral health services, (b) the recent issuance of a policy making all inpatient 
hospitalization and outpatient consultations at central hospitals subject to fees, and (c) ongoing 
technical assistance being provided to assist in making the four central hospitals become 
autonomous. 
 
9.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design 
 
The following lessons relevant to Malawi, the HNP sector in general, and the HNP sector in 
Malawi in particular, have been carefully considered in designing the Malawi HSSP. 
 
Malawi Lessons: 
 ICRs for recent Bank-supported projects in Malawi have emphasized the 
importance of realistic objectives with greater specificity and focus, which can be translated into 
operational and monitorable terms.  In the same vein, it has been recognized that effective 
monitoring and evaluation is key to good programmatic implementation.  The need for project 
design to be compatible with implementation capacity and pay adequate attention to “software” 
activities has also been stressed.   
 
HNP Lessons:  
Experience from HNP projects in developing countries, and particularly those in 
Sub-Saharan Africa, shows that multiple discrete projects lead to the  fragmentation of services, 
Page  12
preclude government ownership, and impose an undue management burden on governments.  
Fungibility of resources also implies that, when donors focus on financing cost-effective 
interventions (e.g., primary health care), government resources can sometimes be redirected 
towards less cost-effective interventions.  A more comprehensive strategy approach, that is based 
on a government-led strategy and program, focused on building local capacities, and firmly 
rooted in an agreed-upon financing framework should be considered.  It has also been recognized 
that for optimal results, in the health sector, governments need to focus increasingly on financing 
and stewardship, while encouraging greater private sector participation in service delivery. 
 
Malawi HNP Lessons:
 
Significant lessons from Malawi HNP work are that: (a) infrastructure 
expansion needs to be synchronized with staffing and supplies; (b) community driven initiatives 
can significantly improve certain health related behaviors at the household level, such as the use 
of contraceptives; and (c) the absence of an IDA technical presence in the field has constrained 
the policy dialogue with the GOM and other partners. 
 
10. Safeguard policies (including consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
The project has been rated as “S2” on safeguards and as “B” on environmental screening. 
 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
9. Contact 
point 
Contact: Ramesh Govindaraj 
Title: Sr Health Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-2948 
Fax: (202) 614-2948 
Email: Rgovindaraj@worldbank.org 
 
10. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  13
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
