                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR0000932




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-H1380, IDA-H2480)




                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.6 MILLION
                             US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                        TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                         FOR A

                         HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT




                                      March 12, 2009




Human Development I
Southern Africa Country Cluster II
Africa Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


           (Exchange Rate Effective: February 18, 2009)

                  Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha
                      US$ 1.00 = MWK 140
                        US$1.4 = SDR 1


                          FISCAL YEAR
                          July 1 ­ June 30


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS     Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CHAM     Christian Health Association of Malawi
CMS      Central Medical Stores
CPR      Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DfID     Department for International Development (UK)
EHP      Essential Health Package
EMOC     Emergency Medical Obstetric Care
HIPC     Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HMIS     Health Management Information System
HSSP     Health Sector Support Project
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
MDG      Millennium Development Goal(s)
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH      Ministry of Health
MTR      Mid-Term Review
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMTCT    Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission
SWAp     Sector Wide Approach
TB       Tuberculosis
VCT      Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO      World Health Organization



                 Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
             Country Director: Michael Baxter
               Sector Manager: Christopher J. Thomas
          Project Team Leader: Sheila Dutta

                                                    MALAWI
                                   Health Sector Support Project




                                                  CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................... 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 16
 6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 18
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 19

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...................................................................................... 21
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 22
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 37
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................... 38
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 39
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................... 40
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 41
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 42
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 53

Map: IBRD 33440

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Health Sector Reform
Country:                Malawi                  Project Name:
                                                                       Project
                                                                       IDA-H1380,IDA-
Project ID:             P083401                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       H2480
ICR Date:               03/13/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIM                     Borrower:
                                                                       MALAWI
Original Total
                        XDR 10.1M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 10.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Malawi Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/13/2003    Effectiveness:                            05/06/2005
Appraisal:             06/21/2004    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/14/2004    Mid-term Review:       08/13/2007         08/13/2007
                                     Closing:               09/15/2008         09/15/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing           Moderately
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              10                10
Health                                                         80                80
Sub-national government administration                         10                10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                             Secondary       Secondary
Health system performance                                     Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Secondary       Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:         Michael Baxter                   Hartwig Schafer
Sector Manager:           Christopher J. Thomas            Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project Team Leader:      Sheila Dutta                     Ramesh Govindaraj
ICR Team Leader:          Sheila Dutta
ICR Primary Author:       Sheila Dutta



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall objective of the government's SWAp program for the sector is to improve
the effectiveness, efficiency and equity of the essential health care delivery system in
Malawi.     Within this general context, three key aspects of the sector stand out as
requiring particular attention if the SWAp is to succeed. These are: (a) human resources,
where there is a danger of the human resource situation slipping into an emergency crisis
if substantial steps are not taken; (b) ensuring the provision of the essential package of


                                             ii

services - the minimum required - throughout the country; and (c) strengthening the
support and referral systems relevant to this package of services.

  The development objective of the HSSP is, therefore, "to contribute to the overall aims
of the government's SWAp program and within that to ensure that the minimum essential
package of health services is provided throughout the country at facility and community
levels, and that the decline in the health sector human resources position is arrested and
reversed."

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from           Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval            Target        Completion or
                                                documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Percent of health facilities with ability to effectively provide EHP
Value
quantitative or 10 percent                  15 percent                           12 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/04/2003                    12/31/2007                           09/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Percent GOM budget allocation to health
Value           12 percent                                                       15 percent
quantitative or (from 2004/2005 budget 15 percent                                (from 2008/2009
Qualitative)    data)                                                            budget data)
Date achieved 11/16/2004                    12/31/2007                           09/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                           Achieved at
                                                 approval            Revised       Completion or
                                                documents)       Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Component 1: Percent health facilities without 7 day stockout of essential EHP
                drugs
Value
(quantitative   25 percent                  30 percent                           25 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/16/2004                    10/31/2008                           09/15/2008


                                                 iii

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Component 2: Percent of staffing positions filled
Value
(quantitative  12 percent               15 percent                          40 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/03/2003                 10/31/2008                         09/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Component 3: Percent of health facilities regularly supervised by District Health
               Management Teams
Value
(quantitative  Not established          75 percent                          73 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/16/2004                 10/31/2008                         09/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     04/28/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     10/26/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     05/01/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       5.00
  4     11/14/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       9.85
  5     05/30/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     12.96
  6     10/29/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   12.96

  7     06/25/2008          Moderately                 Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                     12.96

  8     09/12/2008         Unsatisfactory              Moderately
                                                     Unsatisfactory                     15.96



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                             iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

1.       As noted in the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Malawi is a small,
densely populated, landlocked country which faces formidable development challenges. Despite
substantial efforts and investments over the past decade, poverty has remained largely unchanged
in Malawi. At project appraisal (FY04), an estimated 55 percent of the population lived below
the poverty line with more than 20 percent unable to meet basic daily food needs. Almost 90
percent of the population was rural and dependent upon smallholder, rain-fed subsistence
agriculture. As a result, the population was highly vulnerable to annual rainfall variability and
experiences chronic food insecurity and widespread malnutrition. Overall health status indicators
in Malawi were poor and progress in improving basic health indicators was uneven.

2.       At project appraisal, life expectancy at birth in Malawi had declined to 40 years from an
estimated 48 years in the early 1990s, largely due to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. An estimated 14.2
percent of the Malawian adults (15-49 years) were living with HIV/AIDS in 2004-2005.
Tuberculosis (TB) posed an increasing challenge, largely fueled by the HIV epidemic, with TB
prevalence estimated as 501 per 100,000 population. The maternal mortality ratio was estimated
at 1,120 deaths per 100,000 live births, significantly higher than the Africa Regional average of
910 deaths per 100,000 live births. While infant and under-five mortality rates had decreased
substantially since the early 1990s, these rates still remained high at 109 and 175 per 1,000 live
births, respectively. At project appraisal (FY04), Malawi was not on-track to meet key health
sector Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), such as its under-five mortality target (Figure 1).

                     Figure 1: Progress Towards MDG Under-Five Mortality Target (2004)




                          Source: WHO, 2005


3.       The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) notes that these challenges were compounded by
the critical shortage of human resources in the health sector, the high rates of fertility and
malnutrition, poor supply and access to pharmaceuticals, and the fragmented health care delivery
system. Malawi, however, had achieved respectable performance in traditionally vertical health
interventions that were not highly reliant on facility-based support, such as immunization
coverage. In 2004, measles immunization coverage among one-year-olds was 80 percent,
compared to the Africa Regional average of 66 percent.


                                                   1

4.       In response to sector challenges, the Malawi Ministry of Health (MOH) developed an
Essential Health Package (EHP) to guide priorities at all levels, and to promote a more integrated
approach to the provision of health services, as opposed to the existing vertical disease control
programs. The EHP objectives were to improve technical quality and allocative efficiency in the
delivery of health care; to ensure universal coverage of health services; and to provide cost-
effective interventions to address the disease burden in Malawi. The EHP consisted broadly of
the following intervention areas: prevention and treatment of vaccine preventable diseases;
malaria prevention and treatment; reproductive health interventions; prevention, control and
treatment of tuberculosis; prevention and treatment of schistosomiasis; management of acute
respiratory infections, prevention, treatment and care for acute diarrheal diseases; prevention
and treatment of HIV/AIDS/STIs; prevention and management of malnutrition; management of
eye, ear, and skin infections; and treatment of common injuries including emergency care for
accidents.

5.       The Malawi Public Expenditure Review (PER) noted the relative proximity of Malawian
public health facilities to households, in comparison with most other African countries. However,
this report also indicated that, at project appraisal, most decentralized facilities were not capable
of effectively delivering essential health services. A key 2003 assessment, conducted jointed by
the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the MOH, determined that only 54 of
585 Government and mission health facilities - 9 percent - were capable of providing the
Essential Health Package on-site (Figure 2).

6.       This assessment indicated that, within each district in Malawi, only 1-2 facilities
possessed adequate EHP capacity in 2003. The JICA/MOH inventory noted that these service
deficits stemmed from a lack of health workers, pharmaceutical and medical supply stock-outs,
and lack of basic utilities (water, electricity, phone, or radio communication). This analysis, a
baseline assessment of the health sector (and HSSP), applied the following criteria in determining
whether a facility had the capacity to deliver EHP services:

         (a) Service Delivery ­ each facility had to possess capacity to deliver outpatient care,
             family planning services, maternity services, and immunization; and

         (b) Minimum Staffing ­ each facility had to possess the following minimum staff
             complement: one medical assistant or clinical officer per facility, and two
             nurses/midwives per facility.


                  Figure 2: Number of Health Facilities and Those Capable of Delivering the EHP (2003)


               Total Govt + Nonprofit + For-Profit                                                    668
           Total MOH + CHAM + Other Nonprofit                                                     617
                              Total MOH + CHAM                                                  585
         "Self-reported" capable of delivering EHP                            344
                         Facilities w/ at least 2 staff         152
                         Facilities w/ at least 3 staff      91
                         Capable of providing EHP 54

                                                         0     100   200     300     400     500   600   700



         Source: JICA/MOH/Hozumi, 2003




                                                            2

7.       The Malawi Health Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) was developed as the institutional
framework to support the delivery of the Essential Health Package. During FY03, the
Government of Malawi requested financial and technical assistance from the World Bank to
support the preparation and implementation of the Health SWAp. The Bank agreed to finance a
three-year IDA operation, the Health Sector Support Project (HSSP) in support of the first phase
of the Malawi Health SWAp (FY05-08). The Bank provided technical input for the design of the
Health SWAp and the financial resources under the HSSP helped bridge the financing gap of this
sector program, in addition to leveraging additional donor resources.

8.       The World Bank, at the explicit request of Government, also assumed fiduciary oversight
responsibility for the overall Health SWAp, as delineated in the Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) signed prior to project inception. The HSSP was appraised in June 2004, approved by the
Board of Executive Directors on December 14, 2004, and became effective on May 6, 2005. The
project closing date was established as September 15, 2008.

9.       The principal outputs of the HSSP, as a contribution to the Health SWAp, were expected
to be: (a) improved availability of quality health care and EHP for the poor and vulnerable
populations; (b) improved human resources, especially skilled personnel; (c) strengthened health
systems through equitable health financing, increased human resources, reliable pharmaceutical
and supplies logistics and effective monitoring and evaluation; (d) enhanced capacity of MOH for
stewardship and policy development; (e) strengthened District Health Management systems for
planning, budgeting and delivery of quality health services; and (f) community participation in
the delivery of essential health interventions.

10.      With the previous Bank health operation (a Learning and Innovation Loan [LIL] for the
Population and Family Planning Project) having closed in 2000, and no health sector support in
the Malawi Country Office, the Bank's health sector engagement was limited (and sporadic) prior
the initiation of the HSSP. As noted in the PAD, the HSSP was aligned with the FY03-06 CAS
for Malawi. The CAS noted improved health status as a priority for poverty reduction and also
identified the need for the Bank's re-newed engagement in the health sector. The HSSP enabled
the operationalization of both these CAS sector goals. It should also be noted that the Health
SWAp was the first joint financing approach implemented in any sector in Malawi. Engaging in
the Health SWAp enabled the Bank to reinforce a more integrated approach to health systems and
also to support critical steps in the long-term process of strengthening health sector performance.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators (as approved)

11.      The project development objective (PDO) of the HSSP was "to contribute to the overall
aims of the Health SWAp and, within that, to ensure that the minimum package of EHP services
was provided throughout the country, at facility and community levels, and that the decline in the
health sector human resources was reversed." This PDO was measured using the following
indicators: (a) percent of health facilities with the ability to effectively provide EHP, and (b)
percent Government budget allocation to health (per fiscal year).

12.      Within the overall Health SWAp context, three components of the sector program were
prioritized as being of fundamental importance. As a consequence, these were integrated as the
components of the HSSP and included: (a) delivery of the Essential Health Package; (b) human
resources development and management; and (c) health sector support and referral systems.

13.      The following output indicators (Table 1) were proposed to monitor the HSSP project
components:



                                                   3

                                 Table 1: HSSP Component Indicators
                           · Percent facilities without 7-day stockouts of essential EHP drugs;
Component 1:               · Percent fully immunized at 1 year;
Delivery of EHP            · Percent births attended by skilled attendant;
                           · Tuberculosis cure rates.
                           · Comprehensive Human Resources Management plan;
Component 2:               · Percent facilities having required number of nurses
Human resources            · Percent established positions filled;
development and            · Percent new graduates from training colleges employed in the health
management                     sector in Malawi.
                           · Percent of health facilities regularly supervised by District Health
Component 3:                   Management Teams
Health sector support and  · Percent facilities offering Emergency Obstetric Care (EmOc);
referral systems           · Proportion of MOH budget allocated to districts; proportion of budget
                               allocated to health centers;
                           · Percent facilities regularly supervised by the district health management
                               team;
                           · Number of village health committees established and functioning as
                               evidence of community participation in delivery of the EHP.



14.       Outcome indicators for assessing the longer-term impact of the Health SWAp included
the following and were to have been disaggregated by income, gender, and geography in order to
monitor progress in improving service delivery and health outcomes: (a) infant mortality rate;
(b) maternal mortality ratio; (c) contraceptive prevalence rate; (d) total fertility rate; (e)
prevalence of HIV infection among antenatal clinic clients; and (f) percent of low birth weight
newborns.

15.       It was recognized and agreed by all Health SWAp Development Partners that it would
not be possible to separately identify the expected effect of any one donor's contribution. In
addition to this important consensus regarding attribution, there was agreement not to earmark
HSSP financing for a narrow set of activities. It consequently was agreed that the project's
development objectives would emphasize - albeit not exclusively - the three components noted
above. It was anticipated that appropriate focus on these HSSP components, by the MOH, would
enable to the realization of the longer-term SWAp goals.

1.3 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

16.       The HSSP PAD noted the main beneficiaries of the project as being (a) all Malawians
utilizing health services, who would benefit from improved management, financing and quality of
health care delivery; (b) the poor, particularly the rural poor and women, due to the focus on
priority health interventions, provision of basic health services and reducing geographical,
socioeconomic, and gender inequalities; and (c) the Ministry of Health, district level state and
non-state health care workers.




                                                    4

1.4 Original Components (as approved)

17.     As noted previously, the HSSP defined three prioritized areas of focus which constituted
the project components:

        (a) Component 1 ­ Delivery of the EHP: The objective of this component was to improve
        the health status of the Malawian population by increasing access to quality essential
        health services. The main mechanism for delivering quality care was to make the
        already-defined EHP accessible to all, but especially in the most rural and disadvantaged
        districts and to the poorest and vulnerable populations. The component supported
        community sensitization and mobilization as well as establishment of standards and
        packages of care to be delivered at each level ­ community, health center, district and
        central hospitals. In addition, the component was also to support in-service updating of
        health workers and management skills as a way of improving staff performance and
        strengthening service provision. Efficient logistics and sustained availability of
        pharmaceuticals, medical and laboratory equipment and supplies, critical for effective
        delivery of the EHP was also supported by this component.

        (b) Component 2 ­ Human Resources Development and Management: The major focus
        of this component was on increasing the number of staff available through continuation
        of MOH's six-year emergency training plan, a concerted recruitment campaign, financing
        and then filling current vacancies, the use of volunteers and contract staff and other stop-
        gap staffing strategies. Greater attraction and retention of staff was to have been
        achieved by ensuring that salaries were paid promptly, and in full, and by increasing the
        overall remuneration package. A comprehensive program of support systems including
        human resource information systems, planning, training institutes, and a review of current
        structures was planned.

        (c) Component 3 ­ Health Sector Support and Referral Systems: The improvement of the
        effectiveness and efficiency of both the health system and the referral network to support
        delivery of the EHP was divided into two sub-components in support of central and
        district-level operations, respectively.

                 (i) Support for central operations: The sub-component for central operations
                 focused on strengthening institutional framework required to implement the
                 SWAp and for the decentralization of the health sector. The aim of this sub-
                 component was to support the policies, coordination and regulatory frameworks,
                 organizational structures, procurement and financial instruments, training
                 programs, and information, monitoring and evaluation systems that would enable
                 the MOH to effectively steward the program. Specific output areas for the
                 central operations subcomponent included policies and planning systems to
                 support EHP delivery, health financing and financial management systems,
                 procurement planning and logistical supply chain management, equitable
                 distribution of financial and human resources, development of standards and
                 quality assurance systems, and development of health information systems.

                 (ii) Support to district operations. The sub-component on district operations
                 emphasized strengthened coordination and planning to ensure uninterrupted
                 availability and maintenance of adequate financial, material and human resources
                 to deliver effectively the EHP in the districts. Specific output areas included the




                                                   5

                 preparation of district implementation plans, financial management, procurement
                 planning, storage and distribution of drugs equipment and supplies.

1.5 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

18.      There were no changes in the HSSP's implementation arrangements. There were
changes in terms of funding allocations to the SWAp's pooled financing. With respect to other
Development Partners, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM)
became a co-signatory to the Health SWAp MOU during FY06, which was a significant step
toward further donor harmonization. UNFPA also became a new co-signatory to the MOU early
in HSSP implementation.

19.      With respect to IDA resources, on July 27, 2007, an Additional Financing operation
(P098792) of SDR 3.5 million (US$5 million equivalent) was approved by the Board of
Executive Directors. The Additional Financing operation was signed on October 5, 2006,
declared effective on November 23, 2006, and retained the same closing date as the HSSP
(September 15, 2008). This additional investment was specifically designed to strengthen the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the MOH using malaria as a "tracer disease."

20.      The IDA Additional Financing involved no restructuring and was expected to both
reinforce and scale-up the HSSP's impact and development effectiveness through an expansion of
activities for two components of the HSSP: (a) ensuring the provision of the Essential Health
Package, through monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems strengthening, and (b) strengthening
of health support and referral systems, through M&E capacity building. It was expected that, this
Additional Financing would support improved evidence-based decision-making, in addition to
expanding capacity for M&E under the Health SWAp.

21.      With the FY06 approval of the Additional Financing operation, the total IDA grant
support provided to the HSSP increased from SDR 10.1 (US$15 million equivalent) to SDR 13.6
million (US$20 million equivalent). As detailed in Annex 1 (Project Costs and Financing), the
overall Health SWAp budget at HSSP appraisal was estimated as US$375 million. Given
increases in funding allocations, by HSSP closing, the Health SWAp budget, was estimated as
US$446 million (as of June 30, 2008).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigation identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

22.      One of the results of the Population and Family Planning LIL, was the documentation of
important lessons for improving implementation in the Malawi health sector. This operation was
under implementation between FY99-04 and its key lessons included the following: (a) the need
to establish realistic objectives with greater specificity and focus, which can be translated into
operational and monitorable terms; (b) the need for effective monitoring and evaluation in
supporting implementation; (c) the need for project design to be compatible with implementation
capacity and to pay adequate attention to "software" activities; and (d) the absence of an IDA
technical presence in the field constrains policy dialogue with Government and other
development partners. These lessons from the LIL were considered in the HSSP design, to the
extent feasible, as can be noted from the structure of the PDOs, modest/realistic targets for key


                                                   6

performance indicators, and the prioritized selection of project components. The FY06
Additional Financing operation was developed in response to continued capacity and financing
constraints with respect to the Health SWAp's monitoring and evaluation framework.

23.     Development partners provided substantial funds in support of background analyses and
reports during the five-year design phase of the Health SWAp. However, areas that could have
been explored more directly during project preparation include the institutional design and the
political economy of the Ministry of Health. This is particularly the case given the typically high
turn-over rates of senior Government officials in Malawi (e.g., three Health Ministers during the
course of this three-year operation), the previously highly vertical nature of MOH programs, and
country-specific governance challenges.

24.     The development of more explicit governance risk reduction strategies during preparation
could have been helpful in more effectively addressing such issues during implementation. These
preparatory-phase actions could have include discussions regarding minimum levels of
performance and accountability within the context of the Health SWAp, in addition to how
governance concerns (e.g., misprocurement, delayed audits) would be addressed in a pooled
financing context. Although the Bank's project preparation team may have underestimated the
challenge that health system reform entailed in Malawi, the rationale for initiating a more
coordinated sector approach was strong, particularly in harmonizing donor funding and reporting
requirements. However, the project design can be viewed as being ambitious, given the HSSP's
relatively brief implementation period (three years and 4 months) and the Bank's limited
technical presence at country-level.

25.     The development of a sector-wide approach was seen as a strong indicator of both
Government and the donors' willingness to move beyond the fragmented approach prevalent
under the traditional projects, and consequently a move toward greater sustainability. The risks
of creating temporary, separate management units (such as a Project Management Unit) which
employ parallel systems, procedures and staff were avoided by through the use of the Health
SWAp framework. In recognition of HSSP's capacity-related risks, provision was made for
substantial technical assistance, on-the-job training, workshops, and operational research. At
appraisal, the overall risk rating of the HSSP was designated as "Modest." However, this risk
rating may have underestimated the challenge associated with the development of the first SWAp
operation in Malawi, particularly given the PAD's identified institutional and fiduciary
challenges. Risks associated with this operation are further discussed in Section 4 (Assessment of
Risk to Development Outcome).

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

26.     The HSSP implementation did not involve restructuring. The only change in design was
the inclusion of the FY06 Additional Financing operation, as noted in Section 1.5 (Other
Significant Changes). The HSSP PAD indicated that the Mid-Term Review (MTR) was planned
for October 2006. However, the MTR review was not initiated until August 2007 due to an
extended decision-making period regarding its approach and structure. Given challenges in
timely program monitoring and reporting, the MTR remains the most substantive assessment of
Health SWAp progress during the HSSP implementation period.

27.     Overall, the MTR noted mixed progress in terms of achieving Health SWAp objectives
and targets. This assessment concluded that although more beneficiaries were accessing some


                                                  7

EHP services, this was not the case for the entire essential health package. The MTR also noted
that progress made in the last three years was at risk of being reversed, especially with respect to
immunization coverage , malaria prevention, and HIV prevention, due to problems with ensuring
adequate stocks of drugs, vaccines, bed nets, and test kits. Specific findings of the MTR, as
relevant to the HSSP, are further examined in Section 3 (Assessment of Outcomes) and Annex 2
(Outputs by Component). The MTR Report, which candidly detailed challenges in Health SWAp
implementation, was initially rejected by MOH senior management.

28.      Although the HSSP supported important progress under the Health SWAp, its start-up
phase was slow. There were 3 month delays, on average, in the flow of funds from Treasury to
the MOH, which impacted implementation plans. Also, many of the key ministry departments
did not have permanent directors in place and there was very high turn-over of staff in senior
positions. During HSSP implementation, this high turn-over of staff was exacerbated by
extended vacancies in MOH management and, in some cases, a lack of clarity regarding
management authority. In the human resources section, for example, the Controller of Human
Resources Management and Development position was vacant for the majority of the HSSP
implementation period, which impacted the efficiency of activities under Component 2 (Human
resources development and management). Similarly, the head of the Pharmacy Section lacked
authority to pool district drug consumption data and needs information to facilitate better
forecasting and quantification of drug need in the country, which would have potentially
strengthened activities under Component 1 (Delivery of EHP).

29.      In terms of other implementation challenges to under the HSSP, it was noted that many
MOH technical units continued to operate in a vertical fashion, often with few inter-departmental
links. For example, technical programs did not generally appear to have integrated their training
activities with those of the Central Ministry, and the training policy that would mandate this was
not approved. As a result, a multiplicity of technical workshops have been held, sometimes on
overlapping issues, and often targeting the same district or front-line health staff. The frequent
absence of MOH, district and front-line staff from their posts impacted service delivery,
particularly given Malawi's limited health sector human resource base. MOH coordination,
cohesion and accountability under the HSSP also were noted to have been limited by irregular
meetings of key Technical Working Groups, the Health Sector Review Group, and the Senior
Management Committee. These structures were put in place in 2004, at SWAp initiation, to
ensure that lines of communication were open and transparent across the ministry and between
the ministry and development partners.

30.      Unsurprisingly, decentralization also proved to be a challenging process, particularly
since the institutional status of Zonal Office within the MOH structure remained unclear. Zonal
supervisors were noted to perceive their role as the key supervisory link between districts and
District Assemblies, with responsibility for enabling support of SWAp implementation through
District Implementation plans. This understanding of the role of the zonal offices did not appear
to be shared with MOH Technical Directorates that were noted to commonly by-pass Zonal
Offices and deal directly with District Health Officers, which, to some extent, undermined
implementation efficiencies. There also were weak linkages between zonal offices and central
hospitals. Zonal Supervisors reporting lines remained indistinct during HSSP implementation, as
it was not clarified whether they were accountable to the MOH Director of Planning or the
Principal Secretary.

31.      An effective coordination mechanism under the Health SWAp was the Joint Annual
Reviews, held annually in September/October (with a smaller technical review in
February/March). These reviews provided a public venue where overall progress during the



                                                  8

preceding year, procurement progress, and plans for the next year, could be shared. The active
involvement of district-level implementers in the Joint Reviews visibly increased over the course
of implementation, a significant sign of ownership from the decentralized implementers of the
Health SWAp. Coordination and content of these Joint Review visibly improved over the course
of the HSSP implementation. The MOH and the Development Partners should be credited for
enabling this joint discussion forum examining implementation progress and challenges.

32.      The MTR was candid in noting that Development Partners occasionally (indirectly)
contributed to coordination challenges by not assuming lead roles for technical areas amongst
themselves, and not holding each other accountable if there was movement away from a
harmonized, aligned approach. A disparate approach to addressing certain governance
challenges, such as misprocurement, posed a specific challenge to HSSP implementation
(detailed in Section 2.4). This was particularly the case given the Bank's fiduciary oversight role
for all SWAp resources.

33.      Despite HSSP disbursements being relatively on track, the Implementation Status and
Results Reports (ISRs) note a shift in ratings for implementation progress from "Moderately
Satisfactory" at project mid-term to "Moderately Unsatisfactory" rating at project closing, for
reasons detailed above, in addition to increasing fiduciary challenges that are detailed in Section
2.4 (Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance). The cancellation of an estimated 80 percent of the
Additional Financing grant, due to implementation delays and capacity/coordination gaps, is
illustrative of the challenges faced in HSSP implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation, Design, Implementation and Utilization

34.      With respect to M&E, the agreed core set of 42 indicators noted in the HSSP PAD were
based on the strategic objectives of the Health SWAp. However, the design of the HSSP results
framework did not enable accurate and timely monitoring of valid and reliable measures of the
sector's performance, particularly given its relatively brief implementation period. As a result,
the utilization of M&E data for improved decision-making was limited. Health information
remained underutilized throughout the Malawi health system over the HSSP implementation
period. The MTR Report noted that at health facility level, most staff viewed their registers and
monthly reports as one more (onerous) administrative task, and not as an important tool for
understanding (and addressing) local health/service delivery trends. At central level, data for key
indicators in critical areas were sometimes not known. (e.g. weak indicators for pharmaceutical
supply chain monitoring have remained a long-term challenge).

35.      The MTR explicitly noted that the absence of a central coordinating body for Health
SWAp M&E left the implementation of M&E activities to occur "in the margins" of the national
program, without clear direction, leadership, or integration. Given awareness of incomplete
baselines measurements and limited generalizable data regarding quality of health service
delivery at district-levels, the FY06 Additional Financing operation was designed to strengthen
Ministry of Health's M&E unit and also support a series of health facility surveys. It should be
noted that the Health SWAp performed well in monitoring service access and performance for
key indicators in specific districts, but aggregation and generalizability of data at national level
remained a challenge.

36.      At HSSP closing, a number of baseline measure were still not available. It had been
envisioned that a district health facility survey, among other assessments explicitly budgeted for
under the Additional Financing, would support the filling of key gaps addressing decentralized
health service delivery coverage and quality. This would have particularly supported data


                                                   9

collection with respect to the proportion of health facilities capable of delivering EHP (no new
data since 2003/2004 JICA/MOH baseline survey, other than self-reports). However, delayed
implementation of the Additional Financing caused the HSSP to close prior to the initiation of
these key studies. The MOH plans to conduct the delayed health facility survey in mid-2009,
which is unfortunately to late for this critical data to be used to examine HSSP performance.
Results from the forthcoming Demographic and Health Survey, when available (probably late-
FY10), will additionally support a much better evidence-base for better understanding the impact
of the first phase of the Health SWAp.

37.      With respect to the HSSP PAD, there was inconsistency between the indicators listed
Section 3 (Project Description) and the more detailed indicators listed in its Results Framework
(Annex 3). Such inconsistencies increased the difficulty in tracking HSSP progress. For
example, in the PAD, the PDO baseline indicator for "percent of staffing positions filled" is
recorded as 12 percent, whereas the Results Matrix indicates a baseline for the same indicator as
25 percent. This divergence likely stems from the fact that human resources were sometimes
measured/reported using different aggregate indicators in different years of the HSSP
implementation. At project closing (FY09), the percent of staffing positions filled was estimated
at 40 percent (based on MTR data). Although this is certainly a strong and significant progress
by the Ministry of Health, such inconsistencies regarding baselines limits attribution regarding
the magnitude of the Health SWAp's achievement in this area.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguard compliance
38.      The environmental safeguard was triggered due to the issue of disposal of medical waste.
Progress in implementation of the waste management plan was assessed as part of the Joint
Annual SWAp reviews. The Government submitted a Health Care Waste Management Plan of
Action (2003-2008) to the World Bank InfoShop and disclosed it in-country during HSSP
preparation. Content of this document includes the elaboration of a plan of actions for injection
safety and universal precautions, an infection prevention and control policy, and a blood safety
program. All key hospital staff were trained in medical waste management, over the course of
HSSP implementation, and certified on an annual basis by MOH. Through the continuing IDA-
financed HIV/AIDS operation, the Bank and donors will continue to monitor the implementation
of the Health Care Waste Management Plan.

Fiduciary compliance
39.      Fiduciary demands for the Bank under this operation were very high, given the IDA's
fiduciary oversight function of the overall Health SWAp. Both Government and Development
Partners acknowledged the substantial role made by the Bank's fiduciary function. With respect
to financial management performance under the HSSP, all financial audit reports for the HSSP
were delivered late throughout implementation. The delays were 8 months in FY05, 12 months
in FY06, 5 months in FY07, and 2 months in FY08. The FY05 and FY06 audit reports were
qualified. The FY09 report has not been submitted and is already 3 months overdue. In its
absence it is not possible to determine whether or not financial management capacity within the
MOH has improved over the past year.

40.      With respect to procurement performance under the HSSP, all procurement audit reports
were received a minimum of 3-6 months late since the inception of the HSSP (FY05-FY09). The
project's final procurement audit report has not yet been received and is already five months
overdue. In its absence it is not possible to determine whether or not procurement capacity within


                                                   10

the MOH has improved over HSSP's final year of implementation. This is particularly
significant given the misprocurement stemming from the previous year. One hundred and
twenty-three (123) misprocurements noted were noted in the 2007 Procurement Audit, most of
which were below the prior review threshold. A declaration of misprocurement totaling
US$843,000 was issued on October 17, 2008. Final resolution of this misprocurement remains
pending since the Ministry of Finance has not responded to recent correspondence on this issue.

41.       Challenges relating to fiduciary management and capacity within the MOH impacted
HSSP disbursements. At project closing (September 15, 2008), the HSSP was estimated to be 80
percent disbursed and the Additional Financing was estimated to be 15 percent disbursed. No
additional disbursement requests were received from Government prior the project's application
deadline, (January 20, 2009), resulting in the cancellation of remaining IDA grant resources.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

42.       As reflected in the 2007-2010 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the Bank agreed with
Government that there would not be an HSSP follow-on operation. Given the increases in Health
SWAp financing from other sources, such as the Global Fund, it was agreed that the Bank would
focus its future sector engagement in the area of HIV/AIDS. This decision was made shortly after
the first year of HSSP implementation (FY06). Given this agreement precluded follow-on HSSP
financing, Government's delay in addressing the fiduciary transition in the SWAp (i.e., agreement
specifying which entity would carry out the Bank's fiduciary oversight role following the HSSP
closing date), is notable. At HSSP closing on September 15, 2008, fiduciary transition
arrangements had not been finalized, although procurement of an external financial management
firm (who would report to Government/Office of the Director of Public Procurement) was
initiated shortly afterwards. The Bank provided requisite technical support for this fiduciary
transition.

43.       It should be noted that the Bank's engagement in the health sector continues (indirectly)
as it is following-up on the HSSP closing with an IDA grant of USS$30 million (FY09-12) in
support of Malawi's HIV/AIDS Pooled financing (managed by the National AIDS Commission).
Given that the MOH is the primary implementing agency of the national response to HIV/AIDS,
it is anticipated that approximately 60 percent of this new financing is expected to support the
MOH in expanding the national prevention and treatment programs, as well as health systems
strengthening, more broadly.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

44.       As noted earlier, the Health SWAp provided the first coordinating mechanism in the
Malawi health sector. By supporting the SWAp, the HSSP reinforced the development of a joint
forum for Government and donor sector dialogue and decision-making. This is consistent with
the Malawi CAS goals and remains highly relevant to country and global priorities in health and
development, as detailed in the Malawi Growth and Development Strategy and the Global
Millennium Development Goals. In addition, following endorsement of the 2005 Paris
Declaration, the HSSP's contribution to the Health SWAp supported joint goals efforts in


                                                 11

harmonization, alignment and management in the health sector. The HSSP remained highly
relevant throughout its implementation period, as its objectives, design, and implementation
modalities were consistent with both Malawi's development priorities and the Bank's country and
sectoral assistance strategies.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

45.      As noted in Section 1.2 (Original PDOs and Key Indicators), the HSSP's PDO was
measured using the following indicators: (a) percent of health facilities with the ability to
effectively provide EHP, and (b) percent Government budget allocation to health (per fiscal year).
Despite the important steps forward in supporting a model of donor coordination and joint
financing in Malawi, as noted above, the HSSP was more limited in achieving its PDO targets.
The HSSP was noteworthy for setting relatively modest PDO targets, as well as modest
intermediate outcome indicator targets. Despite these relatively low targets, it is significant that
the program was only able to meet one of the two PDO-level indicators, and one of three
intermediate outcome targets. The Health SWAp Secretariat indicated that it was unclear that
HSSP performance would be evaluated on the basis of achievement the agreed PDO targets, and
indicated their assumption that the assessment instead would be based "efforts" to meet these
targets.

46.      With respect to the first PDO (percent of health facilities with the ability to effectively
provide EHP), evidence from the Mid-Term Review indicates that the proportion of health
facilities capable of delivering the EHP (by district) has not increased as rapidly as had been
expected (baseline of 9 percent; end-target of 15 percent). As detailed in Section 1.1 (Context at
Appraisal) this baseline indicator was measured on the basis of (a) a health facility's service
delivery capacity to deliver key outpatient care, family planning services, maternity services, and
immunization, and (b) a health facility's possession of a minimum staff complement.

47.      At project closing, given extended delays in the conduct of the planned health facility
assessment (originally an FY07 deliverable under the Additional Financing), reliable data
regarding service delivery coverage was not available. Although "self-reports" from facilities
were provided as being 74 percent, this figure unfortunately cannot be validated. Self-reports in
this area have been highly inaccurate in the past. For example, the 2003 baseline JICA/MOH
study, noted that although 58 percent of health facilities "self-reported" as having EHP delivery
capacity, the actual figure was determined to be 9 percent. However, reliable data was available
for the second variable of this EHP delivery indicator, the minimum staffing complement. At
HSSP closing, the proportion of health facilities that had achieved minimum staffing norms was
13 percent, just below the 15 percent PDO target. Given the two-part interdependent construct of
this PDO indicator, this indicates that the maximum proportion of health facilities possessing
EHP delivery capacity, at HSSP closing, would be 13 percent (just below the 15 percent PDO
target), irrespective of the service delivery capacity assessment.

48.      The second PDO (percent Government budget allocation to health per fiscal year) was
fully achieved during the course of HSSP implementation. At HSSP closing, the Government's
budget allocation to health achieved its 15 percent target for 2008/2009. The increased
prioritization for health in the national budget has been significant over the course of HSSP
implementation, particularly in light of Malawi's economic status. The current 15 percent budget
allocation has enabled Malawi to achieve the targets established under the 2001 Abuja
Declaration (i.e., 15 percent domestic public spending on health, excluding external funding).


                                                  12

The progress in increasing the allocation of Government funds to the health sector has been
substantial, from 4.5 percent in 1997, to 7.0 percent in 2000, 10.8 percent in 2003, and 15 percent
by 2008.

49.    A summary of performance of the PDO intermediate outcome indicators, as available,
appears below, and is further detailed in Annex 2 (Outputs by component).

       (a) Component 1 (Delivery of the EHP): The HSSP's results under this component were
       uneven. Some elements of this component that did perform very well, but these were
       largely the more "vertical" programs, such as the HIV/AIDS treatment and tuberculosis
       programs, where stock-outs of drugs were the lowest of all the activities. As of March
       2008, 121,000 Malawians were being treated under the national AIDS treatment program.
       This figure was estimated to have been 9,000 at HSSP inception. The 2008 TB cure rate
       was estimated to be 79 percent, an increase from the 74 percent recorded in 2004/5. By
       HSSP closing, 45 percent of births were attended by skilled health personnel, an increase
       from the 38 percent recorded in 2004/2005. Similarly, 84 percent of one-year-olds had
       been immunized against measles by 2008, compared with an estimated 82 percent in
       2005. Pharmaceutical continued to pose a major challenge to the health sector. As of the
       end of July 2007, 187 drugs were out of stock, with a critical stock-outs of antibiotics,
       HIV test kits, and insecticide-treated bed nets. In addition, the thirteen basic drugs for
       usage at all levels of health care for the EHP were not accessible at many sites.

       (b) Component 2 (Human Resources Development and Management): Of the three
       components in the HSSP, human resources emerged as the strongest performer. The
       major focus of this component was increasing the number of staff available through the
       continuation of the Government's Emergency Training Program. The percent of staffing
       positions filled, increased from 12 percent in 2003/2004 to 40 percent by HSSP closing.
       There were no coordinated assessments of new staff performance or changes in quality of
       service delivery, but, overall, the number of health workers increased. The per-
       population densities recorded in 2005 were 1 doctor/62,000 people and 1 nurse/4,000
       people. These figures improved to 1 doctor/53,662 people and 1 nurse/3,200 people by
       HSSP closing. An estimated 48 percent of health facilities possessed the required
       number of nurses by 2008, compared to 23 percent in 2003.

       (c) Component 3 (Health Sector Support and Referral Systems): The principal outcome
       indicator for measuring this component, the percentage of health facilities regularly
       supervised by a district health management teams was problematic due to the absence of
       baseline data. However, improvements were noted in the percentage of health facilities
       offering emergency obstetric care (from 2 percent in 2004/5 to 55 percent by 2008). The
       removal of user fees from the MCH program resulted in an increase in pre-natal visits,
       although more outreach to the remote areas is still needed. Fifty-six service-level
       agreement were signed with CHAM by project closing. In addition, by HSSP closing, 60
       percent of health facilities self-reported having access to water, electricity, and
       communication, compared to the 46 percent baseline in 2004. The percent facilities
       regularly supervised by the district health management team remained largely static over
       the HSSP implementation period, at about 72-73 percent. The improvement of the
       effectiveness and efficiency of both the health system and the referral network to support
       delivery of the EHP were difficult to assess given data limitations.




                                                 13

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

50.      Technical and financial efficiency were not closely monitored under the HSSP, since the
early implementation phase of the Health SWAp understandably placed primary focus on the
establishments and strengthening of systems. However, a few studies were conducted to examine
the relative cost-effectiveness of specific health interventions, particularly with respect to the
national anti-retroviral treatment program. The next phase of the Health SWAp will place more
focus in enabling greater program efficiencies.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDO's, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

51.      Although the PDOs remain highly relevant to the country's development and the Bank's
country assistance strategy and overall corporate goals, there were moderate shortcomings in the
achievement of the agreed project objectives and targets. The overall outcome rating Moderately
Unsatisfactory is consistent with ISR ratings over the implementation period. The project design
may have overestimated the context of the health sector in Malawi, but the HSSP was consistent
with the approach as agreed with Government and the donors. Of the HSSP's two PDO
indicators, only one was achieved (sector budget allocation), and of its three intermediate
outcome indicators, only one was achieved (human resource staffing).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

52.      The Health SWAp was designed to improve geographic, poverty, and gender disparities
in health in Malawi. Based on analysis of existing DHS data, utilization of health services in both
public and private sectors remains unequal, but is narrowing across wealth groups. With respect
to use of contraception, all wealth groups registered increased rates and the gap between the
poorest and the richest quintiles narrowed between the two periods, as noted in Table 1.
However, for child immunization and antenatal care, coverage was seen to have worsened across
all wealth quintiles. Finally, while the poor/rich gap in contraception was noted to have
narrowed, it is still large. Large differences between the richest and poorest quintiles continue to
be observed for key health indicators as child stunting and under-five mortality.

       Table 1. Selected Health Service Utilization Indicators by Wealth Quintiles, 1990s and 2000s

          Indicators                Year          Poorest         Middle         Richest       Poorest/
                                                  Quintile        Quintile      Quintile        Richest
                                                                                                 Ratio
Percent of children fully          1990s             73            80               89           0.82
immunized                          2000s             65            69               81           0.80
Percent of married women           1990s             4              6               17           0.23
using contraception                2000s             20            23               40           0.50
Percent of pregnant women          1990s             82            89               93           0.88
with antenatal care visits         2000s             77            78               86           0.90
Percent of births attended by      1990s             45            50               78           0.58



                                                    14

medically trained personnel                2000s               43               51                  83               0.51
Source: Population Reference Bureau (2004) and Carr (2004), both based on Gwatkin, Rutstein, Johnson, Suliman, and Wagstaff
(2003) from analyses of the 1992 and 2000 DHS data.


53.       From a financial perspective, the recent National Health Accounts calculated MOH per
capita recurrent expenditure by geographic region, finding that the North was highest (MK 559),
followed by the South (MK 406) and the lowest in the Centre (MK 340). Although there is a
need to calculate this by individual district, the general picture is that percentages of population
classified as poor and under 5-mortality rates are higher in the South, whereas percentage stunted
growth is highest in the Centre. The National Health Accounts also noted that the health
centers/dispensaries/maternity units were the major providers of health care, consuming 29
percent of total health expenditure, whereas public health consumed 31 percent and hospitals 25
percent. However, of MOH allocations, about 64 percent of all expenditure occurred in hospitals,
including central, district and rural.

 (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

54.       The HSSP supported substantial capacity development in health care delivery, M&E,
fiduciary management, and policy development. Although challenges, of course, remain there
was modest progress made with respect to institutional strengthening, with respect to both SWAp
coordination and fiduciary strengthening, over HSSP implementation period.

55.       One of the institutional development goals of the HSSP was strengthening the Central
Medical Stores (CMS). Given the significance of this objective to overall health sector
strengthening, the completion of "phase one" reforms of the CMS was included a completion
point trigger for the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. Malawi achieved this
HIPC target in 2006. Although progress in enabling the next phase of CMS reform remains slow,
Government has increasingly involved more Development Partners in the CMS Reform Steering
Committee and there was noted to be increased momentum address this challenge.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

56.       The Health SWAp is widely recognized as one of the stronger mechanisms for donor
harmonization in Malawi. This approach has reduced duplication of efforts, minimized
transaction costs, and facilitated targeting of funding towards priority health interventions. The
Annual Joint Reviews have enabled a higher level of transparency and dialogue between
stakeholders at all levels, including district health teams.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

57.       Stakeholder workshops and beneficiary surveys were not carried out in preparation for
this ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

58.       The risk to development outcome is rated as "High." The Health SWAp MTR refers to
sector progress, to date, as being "laudable, and yet fragile". Hard-won progress could easily stall
if immediate action were not to be taken to address the outlined implementation bottlenecks. For



                                                             15

example, it steps are not taken to address the outstanding challenges in sustaining gains in human
resources, it is estimated that the sector could revert back to its 2003 status ("pre-SWAp") by
2010. Similarly, if drug and health supply procurement systems are not urgently addressed, gains
in immunization coverage, malaria prevention, HIV testing, and AIDS treatment coverage could
be lost.

59.      Development Partners are in concurrence that the Malawi Health SWAp has reached a
critical point in its implementation cycle. The progress evidenced under the Health SWAp by
HSSP closing has been the result of dedicated planning and initiatives begun at SWAp inception.
These noted challenges would need to be urgently addressed, through joint action between
Government and Development Partners, in order to maintain and scale-up these achievements.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.      Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as "Moderately Satisfactory" for
reasons noted earlier. Feedback from Government and Development Partners strongly endorsed
the Bank's key role in the institutional design of the Health SWAp, in addition to technical and
fiduciary support, more broadly. However, as detailed earlier, it would appear that some program
risks may have been underestimated and some aspects of the design may have been over
ambitious, given the country context and the Bank's limited technical presence at country-level.

61.      In addition, the Bank's fiduciary assessment during appraisal would seem to have
focused heavily at the Central MOH-level, despite the fact that the PAD noted the major
operational challenge as relating to the new decentralized implementation strategy. The relatively
limited focus on district fiduciary (and technical), capacity is particularly notable since the
Central MOH's fiduciary capacity itself was assessed as weak in the PAD.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

62.      Bank performance in ensuring quality of supervision has been rated as "Moderately
Satisfactory." Overall, there were moderate shortcomings in the Bank's identification of
opportunities and resolution of threats. The Bank was noted for being a cooperative and
supportive partner of throughout the implementation of HSSP, by both Government and
Development Partners. However, the Bank could have been more candid in reporting bottlenecks
in project performance, particularly earlier during supervision when the project was consistently
rated as "satisfactory" in ISRs despite the limited progress in areas repeatedly flagged to Bank
Management as being of concern. There was also limited supervision provided to the Malaria
Booster Additional Financing operation, which was under separate (Country Office-based) task
management from the HSSP, and limited follow-up on recommended remedial work plans for the
Additional Financing. Concerns related to the slow implementation of the Malaria Booster were
repeatedly noted in ISRs.



                                                  16

63.      The Bank also had a high level of staff turn-over during project supervision. Over the
course of the HSSP's relatively brief implementation period (3 years and 4 months), the project's
core team involved 3 Task Team Leaders, 4 Procurement Specialists, and 4 Financial
Management Specialists. These frequent task team changes led to challenges in maintaining
institutional memory and required frequent adjustment in working relationships with Government
and other Development Partners.

64.      The Bank also significantly reduced its staff allocation to the Malawi Health/AIDS over
the course of HSSP implementation. Early in HSSP implementation, there was staff allocation of
nearly 3 full-time equivalents (FTE), at different grade levels (including a DfID-financed
secondee), supporting the Bank's overall Health/AIDS portfolio. By HSSP closing, this had
reduced to the equivalent of 0.30 FTE, with no sector support in the Malawi Country Office. This
meant that the Bank was largely absent from key country-level technical working group
discussions, with the notable exception of the Joint Annual Reviews. All other Health SWAp co-
financing partners were represented at country-level over the same period. The penultimate
project ISR (June 6, 2008 archival) includes Management comments noting that "SWAps are
complex and require substantial, daily, hands-on coordination and management, which points to
the need for a strong WB team based in the Country Office for success." Bank Management has
since arranged for a country-based technical presence by FY10, in supporting its expanding
human development portfolio. As a result, this HSSP lesson has been translated into action quite
rapidly.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65.      Overall Bank performance has been rated as "Moderately Satisfactory" for reasons
elaborated in Sections 5.1 (a) and 5.1 (b).

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66.      Government performance has been rated as "Moderately Satisfactory." In general,
Government demonstrated high-level commitment to strengthen the health sector in Malawi, as
evidenced by its initiation and leadership of the Health SWAp development. As noted in the
Section 3.2 (Achievement of PDOs), at HSSP closing, the Government's budget allocation to
health achieved its 15 percent target for 2008/2009, a very significant achievement. Based on the
experience of the Health SWAp, over its initial implementation phase, Government was noted as
being strongly supportive of the initiation of SWAp operations in other sectors, including
education.

67.      Challenges in Government performance largely relate to the timeliness of financial
allocations, since Treasury was noted to have sometimes released MOH budget ceiling data after
the completion of Annual SWAp work planning processes. Although inter-linkages between the
MOH and Ministry of Finance were somewhat limited in early HSSP implementation, the
Ministry of Finance was increasingly and actively engaged in the Joint Annual Review process,
and beyond, as the program evolved. Despite the previously noted delay in enabling the requisite
transition from Bank fiduciary oversight to Government systems, this process has proceeded
under Government leadership. A pending challenge to Government performance is the extended
delay in response to the 2007 Declaration of Misprocurement (as noted in Section 2.4), and the


                                                 17

fact that all financial management and procurement audits were consistently late, throughout
HSSP implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

68.      The MOH was the only implementing agency of the HSSP, although some service
delivery functions were contracted to the Christian Health Association of Malawi (CHAM). In
general, the MOH could have displayed a stronger commitment to achieving the PDO and
outcome indicators. To its credit, the MOH did engage with stakeholders and development
partners in SWAp discussions through Annual reviews and other relevant venues. The MOH
could have expanded its consultations by including more civil society and private sector providers
in the sector dialogue. The MOH fell short in ensuring that processes were in place and
implementation was carried out, particularly in flow of consumables to the periphery. Limited
procurement planning and supply chain management were consistent challenges which
undermined the effectiveness of EHP delivery. All MOH financial and procurement audits over
the project duration were submitted late, leading to limited improvements in fiduciary
performance despite substantial investments in related technical assistance. Government could
also have been more proactive in acknowledging, and responding to, key programmatic,
management, and fiduciary challenges during HSSP implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

69.      The ICR rates Borrower Performance as "Moderately Unsatisfactory", for reasons
detailed in Sections 5.2 (a) and 5.2 (b).

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

70.      Key lessons from HSSP implementation include the following:

         (a) Political nature of reforms and policy implementation: Sector politics, policies
         and strategies heavily impact SWAp program design and implementation. Partners
         should anticipate that implementation of these reforms will be difficult and political, and
         will not necessarily run smoothly or consistently. More attention to understanding the
         interests at play in health policy and its implementation during the HSSP design phase
         may have helped address implementation risks. Such a risk analysis should also consider
         the incentives for government stakeholders to `play ball' in the SWAp, and particularly
         with respect to MOH middle management. Contingency planning, should be considered
         as early as possible in design, including agreed response strategies by Development
         Partners to governance challenges, such as misprocurement or misapplied funds. HSSP
         implementation was hampered, in part, by discordant perspectives regarding responses to
         key fiduciary and governance challenges. Such contingencies could be reflected in
         Annexes to Memoranda of Understanding, although it remains unclear if MOUs are an
         optimal instrument for such agreements, given their lack of legal authority.

         (b) Need to anticipate and deal with changes in personnel: Changes in MOH senior
         management exerted a substantial impact on implementation of the HSSP. The early
         stages of SWAp development involved a core group of committed Government and
         Development Partners who worked together to design this approach. When new


                                                   18

       personnel join the partnership, the dynamics will invariably change and relationships will
       need to be rebuilt. These partnership needs could be more explicitly integrated within the
       context of Joint Reviews, perhaps including a "refresher" session for new Government
       and Partner staff.

       (c) Performance monitoring and indicators: Given that the Health SWAp focused on
       strengthening systems and processes as part of a long-term agenda, it would have been
       important to measure results in these areas, and not just focus on health outcome
       measures. Despite efforts from the Bank and other Development Partners, program
       monitoring under the HSSP remained very weak and there was limited progress to
       improve these systems, despite substantial financial and technical resource investments.
       In retrospect, one means by which this implementation challenge could have been
       mitigated would have been to place greater focus on minimum performance targets that
       would need to be achieved during each year of implementation. In this regard, it is
       notable that programs with earmarked funding from non-SWAp sources tended to
       achieve higher levels of performance, over the duration of the HSSP.

       (d) Implementation time requirements for establishing and implementing SWAps:
       SWAps require substantial time for implementation, and particularly to effect change in
       their early phase. The Malawi Health SWAp involved nearly five years of preparation.
       The limited duration of the HSSP implementation (3 years and 4 months), in the initial
       phase of a SWAp, causes it to perhaps be less than surprising that results of this financing
       were limited. Experience from SWAps in other country contexts indicate that need for
       longer-term engagement in order to achieve sustained progress in health service delivery,
       particularly at decentralized levels. In addition, it is noted that decentralized programs
       require in-depth assessments of both program needs and risk mitigation measures. There
       also is need for detailed plans regarding fiduciary and implementation accountability
       arrangements (and training) at decentralized levels. .

       (e) Need for cross-sectoral and innovative programs: The health problems in Malawi
       cannot be addressed by "quick-fix" measures that focus only on health services delivered.
       There is a need for cross-sectoral programs involving nutrition and food security,
       education especially of women and adults, water and sanitation, and community
       mobilization. The potential for further innovative partnerships between Government and
       other providers (mission facilities, secular nongovernmental organization, work-based
       health services, social marketing programs, community-based organization, and the
       private sector), using novel financing and contracting mechanisms would be important to
       examine. Implementation models that shift financial reporting to a more output based
       approach (linking financial inputs and program outputs), could be examined as a means
       of enabling greater technical and financial efficiency in health service delivery.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

71.    During the ICR mission, Government indicated that it would not be preparing its own
Implementation Completion Report for this operation, but would plan to provide comments on
the Bank's ICR. Government comments on the Bank's implementation completion report have
been requested (Annex 8).




                                                19

(b) Co-financiers

72.      Key development partners co-financing the Health SWAp (DfID and Norway) have
indicated their assessment of the Health SWAp program as being "Satisfactory" and would prefer
that the Bank revise the ICR's project outcome rating accordingly.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. Non-governmental organization/private sector/civil
society)

73.      No additional comments.




                                               20

                                    Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                            Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest
           Components                                                                 Percentage of
                                               (USD millions)     Estimate (USD
                                                                     millions)         Appraisal

Component 1: Delivery of EHP                            6.51              6.51           44.0%
Component 2: Human Resources                            5.62              5.62           37.0%
Component 3: Health Sector
Support and Referral Systems                            2.87              7.87           19.0%



              Total Baseline Cost                      15.00             20.00

Physical Contingencies                                  0.00              0.00

Price Contingencies                                     0.00              0.00
               Total Project Costs                     15.00             20.00
Front-end fee PPF                                       0.00              0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                      0.00              0.00
       Total Financing Required                        15.00             20.00




 (b) Financing
                                                               Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds                            Type of   Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                                   Cofinancing    (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                                millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          Counterpart 212.00       264.20       56.5%
UK: Department for International
Development (DFID)                                Joint       60.00        78.90        16.0%

IDA                                               Joint       15.00        17.00        4.0%
Norway                                            Joint       60.00        62.70        16.0%
UNICEF                                            Joint       13.00        0            3.5%
UNFPA                                             Joint       0            0.50         0%
Global Fund                                       Joint       15.00        22.80        4.0%
Total:                                                        375.00       446.1
(Note: MOH Financing data reported as of June 30, 2008)




                                                          21

                                  Annex 2. Outputs by Component


As previously noted, difficulties with data collection and M&E posed a challenge in measuring
progress under the HSSP. These challenges were associated with missing data, inconsistencies in
periods of time recorded, extrapolation of district or regional data to national levels, different
denominators, aggregation of disparate data (e.g., number of nurses and doctors presented as
combined at times, and separately at other times) and most importantly, the absence of baselines.

The sections below provide a summary of progress made under each of the project components,
and reflect available data for the associated indicators, as noted in Section 1.2 (Original PDOs
and Key Indicators).

    I.       Component I: Delivery of the EHP

Indicator                                                  Baseline Target Progress Comments
% facilities without 7-day stockouts of essential          N/A         N/A       N/A        N/A
EHP drugs;
% fully immunized at 1 year;                               82%         82%       84%        MICS
% births attended by skilled attendant;                    38%         50%       45%        HMIS
TB cure rates.                                             74%         77%       79%        NTP

Significant progress has been made against a number of Essential Health Package indicators,
although results under this overall component were uneven. Specific elements of this component
that did perform well were largely the vertical programs such as the Extended Program on
Immunization coverage, HIV/AIDS treatment, and tuberculosis programs. The tuberculosis cure
rate reached 79 percent in 2008, an increase from the 74 percent reported in 2004/5. As of March
2008, 121,000 Malawians were being treated under the national AIDS treatment program. This
figure was estimated to have been 9,000 at HSSP inception. Malaria prevention interventions
progressed well since 2004, with many more people having access to bednets through both free
distributions and social marketing outlets. In addition, basic emergency obstetric care services
were scaled-up under the period of HSSP implementation.

The MTR describes the pharmaceuticals as the only key area where the "SWAp hasn't started
yet". There was been limited progress in ensuring availability of a stable and reliable drug supply
through the public health service. Reliable data on stock-outs is limited at the national-level. At
HSSP closing, the most recent data estimated that 25 percent of health facilities did not
experience a stock-out of essential drugs over the previous year. This figure remained largely
static over the course of HSSP implementation. Stock-outs of syphilis testing kits for antenatal
clinics have been another consistent feature of the HSSP. Significantly, antiretroviral drugs,
which were procured independently of CMS, routinely constitute the only major drug category
that was not out of stock during the six monthly reviews.

As of the end of July 2007, 187 drugs were out of stock, and the MTR found critical stock-outs of
syphilis test kits, antibiotics, HIV test kits, and insecticide-treated bed nets. In addition, the 13
basic drugs for use at all levels of health care for the EHP were not accessible at many sites, and
reliable composite data on stockouts of EHP drugs was not available. However, it should be
noted that while assuring a steady supply of essential drugs has remained problematic, it is



                                                    22

evident that there are more drugs and medical supplies in stock in health facilities and hospitals
than before SWAp initiation, even though they may not always the most needed. Some of the
implementation bottlenecks relating to pharmaceuticals has been eased by providing districts with
budgets to purchase drugs privately, when not available through the public system.


     II.     Component II: Human Resources Development and Management

Indicator                                                Baseline Target Progress Comments
Comprehensive Human Resources Management                 N/A         N/A      N/A          N/A
plan
% facilities having required number of nurses            23%         35%      48%          HMIS
% staffing positions filled                              12%         15%      40%          MTR
% new graduates from training colleges employed          N/A         N/A      N/A          N/A

Of the three components in the HSSP, human resources emerged as the strongest performer. The
percent of staffing positions filled, rose from 12% to 40% as per the Mid-Term Review. The
major thrust of this component was increasing the number of staff available through continuation
of the Government's Emergency Training Program. Trainings were conducted as planned with
tuition provision for new professionals. The delays in placing the newly trained staff in posts
stunted this component somewhat. In addition, there was no assessment of student performance,
but overall, the number of health workers increased slightly. Placement of health workers was
uneven, as the districts preferred to conduct their own recruitment versus central MOH
appointments, and more importantly, retention of staff remains highly unstable with significant
migration to other countries.

There are more available seats in health sector training institutions, and more students entering
pre-service training, in some cases doubling annual intakes over numbers in 2004. The numbers
entering the health workforce have been boosted by increased pay and special allowances for
health professionals, incentives to bring retired workers back into the workforce, and by creative
initiatives that allow health staff to work additional hours and be paid for their time.

The per-population densities recorded in 2005 were 1 doctor/62,000 people and 1 nurse/4,000
people at HSSP initiation and improved to 1 doctor/53,662 people and 1 nurse/3,200 people by
closing. Given the delays in addressing the HRH gaps, at present, less-skilled workers do
technical and clinical work for which they are not trained, and workload per health worker has
substantially increased. The proportion of skilled and semi-skilled staff (i.e., with two years or
more of training) to total staff in each of the workforce areas is low . For instance, in nursing care
in MOH, only 37.9 percent of the staff are skilled or semi-skilled. Many of these support staff are
now providing certain services, for which they were not trained. A study in one health facility
found that 20 out of 34 deliveries (or 58.8 percent) were attended by ward attendants. The
workload among the remaining health workers increased. For example, for family planning, a
typical health worker faces as many as 50 patients per day, implying an average encounter of 9.6
minutes per patient, compared to the standard 20 minutes. These "down-loading" of clinical tasks
and increasing workloads, especially with limited supervision, have impacted on quality of care.

An emerging risk involves the ability to sustain the gains in human resources that have been made
to date. These gains have been made through what have been referred to as "emergency
measures". For example, the staffing of training institutions has been achieved by short-term
secondments of service delivery staff by means of incentives of further training prior and



                                                  23

additional allowances. This investment in further training could lead to a better qualified
workforce when the staff return from their secondments, but equally there is the risk that having
been upgraded staff are no longer willing to fill the gaps they once did, or having become more
marketable, they find employment elsewhere. Staffing gaps are being filled by effectively paying
staff overtime and by the "relief" system in remote postings. Both solutions are being financed
from the recurrent budget, reducing the allocations available for other needs.

The emphasis of the Human Resource Strategy has been on increasing staff numbers and less
attention has been given to improving staff performance, which was noted to be concern.
However, there are plans for developing a performance appraisal system, updating job
descriptions, developing systems for managing absence, etc., in work plans. Similarly, although
numerous training exercises were conducted, the approaches have not been consistent and largely
lacked efforts at performance evaluation, pre-testing, or post-testing afterwards. The outputs
measured were fully process-oriented the number of people trained, rather than retention rates at
posts or links to service delivery (e.g. quality of service delivery, attendance). In addition, there
were limited efforts at mentoring or following-up with on-the-job supervision to assess the
absorption/effectiveness of lessons taught.



    III.      Component III: Health Sector Support and Referral Systems

Indicator                                                    Baseline    Target  Progress   Comments

% facilities offering EmOC;                                  2%          33%     55.9%      HMIS
Proportion of MOH budget allocated to districts; proportion  N/A         N/A     N/A        N/A
of budget allocated to health centers
% facilities regularly supervised by the district health     72%         75%     73%        HMIS
management team
Number of village health committees established and          N/A         N/A     N/A        N/A
functioning as evidence of community participation in
delivery of the EHP

Strong progress has been made in the percentage of facilities offering emergency obstetric care,
which is one of the key output indicators for this component (an increase from 2 to 55 percent).
The improvement of the effectiveness and efficiency of both the health system and the referral
network to support delivery of the EHP have been less than optimal. Over the past years,
secondary health care services have accounted for the largest share of recurrent expenditures of
between 32 percent and 37 percent. Primary health care has captured between 22 percent and 27
percent of expenditure. The share of tertiary health care services has correspondingly declined to
less than a fifth of total recurrent spending. The share of expenditures on administration and
support services, at all levels, increased from 12 percent in 2001/02 to 33 percent in 2004/05.
This was largely due to improvements in the capturing of expenditure information resulting from
changes in the budget format. A slightly different picture emerges when a similar analysis is
done for the district level alone, where over 50 percent of the expenditures go to secondary health
care services, while primary health care services take up between 30 and 40 percent of recurrent
expenditures.

Improvements on physical access to health services has occurred through a combination of
infrastructure development, increasing numbers and working hours of staff and through
innovative service level agreements. The mixture of increased numbers of trained staff coming



                                                       24

into, or returning to, front-line health services and staff working more hours through locum or
relief arrangements meant that some health centers that were previously closed were re-opening
and health centers with only one trained staff person could provide more services once they were
joined by other trained providers. At the same time, service level agreements with non-
governmental providers has improved access to existing facilities that poorer community
members could not previously afford to use. Equitable geographic access remains a challenge
however since many people reported having to walk long distances (averaging 37 km) to reach
the facilities.

The removal of user fees from the maternal and child health program was reported to have
resulted in an increase in pre-natal visits, although more outreach to remote areas is still needed.
With respect to child health, it should be noted that Malawi still retains one of the highest rates of
stunting among young children in Africa. Over half (53 percent) of children under five years of
age are stunted (low height/age) and 6 percent are wasted (low weight/height). This is of
particular concern since prevalence of malnutrition has remained static over the course of HSSP
implementation. With the exception of a very small decrease in underweight children (decreased
5 percentage point decline between 1992-2004) all other measures of malnutrition in children--
stunting and wasting, have remained unchanged. In response to this continuing challenge, the
Bank has financed an assessment of infant and child feeding practices in Malawi, which is an
end-FY09 deliverable.

Table 1 (excerpted from Health SWAp Mid-Term Review Report) provides a more detailed
summary of outputs, by component, including progress to date baselines and targets




                                                   25

    TABLE 1        Indicator      Data       Aggregation       Baseline       Target      Progress       Target     Target
                                 Source                                      (2007-08)   July07-June    (2008-09)  (2009-10)
                                                                                             08
Goal
Reduced          IMR           DHS (NSO)    National        76/1000        -            72/1000       -            52/1000
incidence of                                                (2000-2004)                 (MICS 2006)
illness/
premature death  U5MR          DHS (NSO)    National        133/1000       -            122/1000      -            80/ 1000
                                                            (2000-2004)                 (MICS 2006)


                 MMR           DHS (NSO)    National        984/           -            807/100000    -            600/
                                                            100,000 (2000-              (MICS 2006)                100,000
                                                            2004 )
                 Life          Census/      National        40 yrs (NSO,   -            -             -            44 yrs
                 expectancy    NSO                          2005)
                 (at birth)
                 Prevalence of ANC          National        14.28% (2005)  <14.28%      12.3%         -            <12.3%
                 HIV among     Sentinel     projections
                 15-24 year    Surveillance based on
                 old pregnant  (MOH)        Sentinel Sites
                 women                      data
                 attending
                 ANC
                 % of infants  Formula      National        21% (2005)     19%          N/A           17%          15%
                 born to HIV-  based                        (NAF)
                 positive
                 mothers who
                 are infected
                 Malaria In-   IDSR         District/       7%             6%                         5%           4%
                 Patient Case               National
                 Fatality rate
                 % of children WMS          District/       18% (WMS       13%          14%           11%          9%
                 that are                   National        2005)                       (WMS 2007)
                 under-weight
Objective 1
Increased        OPD service   HMIS         District/       800/1000       >1000/       1170/1000 pop >1000/       >1000/
utilization and  utilization   (CMERD)      National        population     1000                       1000         1000
effectiveness of                                            (HMIS 2004-    population                 population   population
EHP and other                                               05)
services




                                                                         26

TABLE 1    Indicator      Data    Aggregation     Baseline       Target       Progress      Target      Target
                          Source                               (2007-08)    July07-June    (2008-09)  (2009-10)
                                                                                 08
         Proportion of  EPI       District/    82% (EPI      82%           84%           82%          82%
         1 year-old               National     2005)
         children
         immunized
         against
         measles
         % surveyed     SDSS      District/    Baseline not  Baseline not  Baseline not  > Baseline   > 2008-09
         population     (MHEN)    National     established   established   established                data
         satisfied with
         services (by
         gender and
         rural/urban)
         CPR (modern    DHS       National     28.1% (DHS    -             41%                        38%
         methods)       (NSO)                  2004)                       (MICS 2006)

         Proportion of  HMIS      District/    38% (HMIS     45%           45%           56%          60%
         births         (CMERD)   National     2004-05)
         attended by
         skilled health
         personnel
         % of eligible  DHS       National     46.8%         -             46.7%         60%          70%
         pregnant       (NSO)                                              (MICS 2006)
         women
         receiving at
         least two
         doses of
         intermittent
         preventive
         therapy




                                                           27

TABLE 1    Indicator      Data      Aggregation    Baseline       Target      Progress        Target     Target
                         Source                                  (2007-08)   July07-June     (2008-09)  (2009-10)
                                                                                 08
         % of           DHS        District/    14.7%           -           25.6%          -            80%
         pregnant       (NSO)      National     pregnant                    pregnant
         women and                              women                       women
         under 5                                14.8% children              24.7% children
         children who                           (DHS 2004)                  (MICS 2006)
         slept under an
         insecticide
         treated net
         (ITN) the
         previous
         night
         % of HIV+      HIV/       District/    2.30%           80%         -              80%          80%
         pregnant       AIDS Dept. National
         women who
         received a
         complete
         course of
         ARV
         prophylaxis
         to reduce
         mother to
         child
         transmission
         % of children  DHS        District/    23.4% (DHS      -           21.1%          60%          70%
         under 5 years  (NSO)      National     2004)                       (MICS 2006)
         of age with
         fever who
         received anti
         malarial
         treatment
         according to
         national
         policy within
         24 hours of
         onset




                                                              28

Objective 2
Increased        EHP             Facility     District/    9% (JICA        40%             74%            50%           55%
availability of  coverage (%     Survey       National     study 2002)                     (420/571))Self
quality EHP      Facilities able                                                           reporting by
services         to deliver                                                                districts)
                 OPD, Imm.,
                 FP & mat.
                 services)
                 % of health     HIV/         District/    7%              55%             83% (454/544   100%          100%
                 facilities with AIDS Dept.   National     (2005)          (300 out of 544 facilities)    (All 544      (All 544
                 at least the    Records                                   facilities)                    facilities)   facilities)
                 minimum
                 package of
                 PMTCT
                 services

                 TB case         Routine      District/    To be provided  216/100,000     204/100,000    30,736        30,333
                 notification    NTP          National     by NTP          (NTP 2007)      (NTP 2007)
                 rate per        notification
                 100000)         records
                 TB cure rate    NTP routine  District/    74% (NTP,       77%             79%            78%           79%
                                 data and     National     2004-2005)
                                 records
                 % of HCs        HMIS         District/    2% (2005,       36              61             42            48
                 offering basic  (CMERD)      National     EmOC survey)    (33.0%)         55.9%          (44%)         (50%)
                 EmOC
                 services
                 Doctor/         HRH M&E      District/    1 doctor/       1 doctor        1 doctor/      1 doctor/     1 doctor/
                 population      database     National     62,000 pop      42,000 pop      53,662 pop     40,000 pop    35,000
                 and Nurse/                                (2005)                                                       pop
                 population                                1 nurse/ 4,000  1 nurse/        1 nurse/ 3,062 1 nurse/
                 (CABS                                     pop (2005)      3,400 pop       pop            3,200 pop     1 nurse/
                 Indicator)                                                                                             2,000 pop
                 and HSA/                                                  1 HSA /         1 HSA /        1 HSA /
                 population                                                1,252 pop       1,357 pop      1,200 pop     1 HSA /
                 ratios                                                                                                 1,100 pop




                                                                         29

EHP Outputs
Community          % of            GIS         District/    46% (EHP        65%    Not yet under-  70%    75%
awareness and      population      Mapping     National     document,              taken
access to services residing                                 2004)
increased          within 5 km
                   of a health
                   facility
                   % of monthly    HMIS        District/    60% (2005-      95%    43%             95%    95%
                   drug            (CMERD)     National     2006)                  (self reporting
                   deliveries                                                      by districts)
                   monitored by
                   Facility
                   Health
                   Committees
                   % of            HMIS        District/    7% (HMIS        8%     8%              10%    15%
                   pregnant        (CMERD)     National     2004-2005)
                   women
                   starting
                   antenatal care
                   during the
                   first trimester
                   TB Default      NTP routine District/    4%              5%     3%              3%     3%
                   rate among      data and    National     (NTP 2004)
                   new smear       records
                   positive cases
                   % of Private    NTP routine District/    To be provided  30%    N/A             48%    49%
                   practitioners   data and    National     by NTP
                   participating   records
                   in some
                   aspect of
                   DOTS among
                   all Private-
                   for-profit
                   health units




                                                                          30

% of sexually  DHS         District/    30%women      -              40% women                   35%women
active         (NSO)       National     47%men                       58% men                     55%men
population                              (DHS 2004)                   (MICS 2006)
using
condoms at
last high-risk
sex (sex with
non-
cohabiting or
non-regular
partner)
% of TB        NTP routine District/    50%           To be provided 86%          To be provided    87%
patients       data and    National                   by NTP                      by NTP
accessing      records
HIV Testing
and
Counselling
# of people    HMIS        District/    167,393       850,000        N/A.         900,000        950,000
tested and     (CMERD)     National     (HMIS 2004-
counselled     and                      05)
for HIV, and   HIV/
receiving      AIDS Dept.
results in the
last 12
months
# of people    HMIS        District/    30,000        110,000        110,790      150,000        189,000
alive and on   (CMERD)     National     (HIV Unit,                   (March 2008)
treatment      and                      Dec. 2005)
( HAART) at    HIV/
the end of     AIDS Dept.
each year
# of           HMIS        District/    1,323, 557    1,500,000      1,105,864    2,500,000      1,800,000
ITNs/LLINs     (CMERD)     National     (NMCP, 2004)
distributed in
the country
(annually)




                                                    31

Routine        HMIS    District/    21% (HMIS,  25%    32%          30%    35%
Vitamin A      (CMERD) National     2004-05)
supplementati
on coverage
in children 6-
59 months.
% of under     DHS     District/    19.6%       -      51.8%        -      30%
five children  (NSO)   National     (DHS 2004)         (MICS
with                                                   2006)
symptoms of
ARI and/or
fever in the
preceding
two weeks
for whom
treatment was
sought from a
health
facility/
provider
% of under     DHS     District/    70.1%       -      63.9%        -      85%
five children  (NSO)   National     (DHS 2004)         (MICS 2006)
with
diarrhoea in
the preceding
two weeks
who received
oral
rehydration
therapy




                                              32

                   % of young     DHS     District/         23.6% women  -             41% women       40% women     60%
                   people aged    (NSO)   National          36.3% men                  42%             50% men       women
                   15-24 who                                (DHS 2004)                 men                           60% men
                   both correctly                                                      (MICS
                   identify ways                                                       2 006)
                   of preventing
                   the sexual
                   transmission
                   of HIV and
                   who reject
                   major mis-
                   conceptions
                   about HIV
                   % of men       DHS     District/         64.8% (DHS   -             -
                   who do not     (NSO)   National          2004)
                   know any
                   signs or
                   symptoms of
                   pregnancy
                   complications

Pillar 1: HR
Staffing norms     % health       HMIS    District/National 23% (2002)   Clinician=10% Clinician=18%   Clinician=15% Clinician=1
obtained at all    centers with   (CMERD)                                Nurses/       Nurses/         Nurses/       5%
health facilities  minimum                                               MWs=          MWs=            MWs=          Nurses/
                   staff norms                                           35%           48%             35%           MWs=
                   i.e. having 2                                         EHO/HA=12%    EHO/HA=19%      EHO/HA=15%    40%
                   Clinicians                                            Composite=6   Composite=13    Composite=8   EHO/HA=
                   (Doctor/                                              %             %               %             16%
                   Clinical                                                            (Self-reporting               Composite
                   Officer/                                                            by districts)                 =9%
                   Medical
                   Asst.), 2
                   Nurse/
                   Midwives
                   and 1 Env.
                   Health
                   Officer/
                   Health Assist.




                                                                       33

                   % of nurses     District HR District/National 68% (2005-06)   85%            73%             88%            90%
                   with            database                                                     (Self-reporting
                   midwifery                                                                    by districts)
                   skills
                   # students      HR M&E      National          Doctors: 16     Doctors:40     Doctors:33      Doctors:60     Doctors: 64
                   graduating      Database                      Nurses: 475     Nurses:        Nurses:         Nurses:        Nurses: 670
                   from health                                   All category:   470            656             470            All
                   training                                      798 (2004)      All category:  All category:   All category:  category:
                   institutions                                                  840            824             840            1534
                   (category-
                   wise)

Pillar 2:
Pharmaceutical
s
Supply chain       Drug day        LMIS        District/         SP:             LA:            SP/ LA:         LA:            LA:
functioning        availability of             National          85%             100%           100%            100%           100%
adequately         indicator                                     ORS: 81%        ORS:           ORS:            ORS:           ORS:
                   drugs                                         Cotrimoxazole   100%           96%             100%           100%
                   (TT vaccine,                                  : 82%           Cotrimoxazole  Cotrimoxazole   Cotrimoxazole  Cotrimoxaz
                   Oxytocin,                                     Composite:      : 100%         : 100%          : 100%         ole: 100%
                   LA,ORS,                                       89%             TT: N/A        TT: N/A         TT: N/A        TT: N/A
                   Cotrim-                                       (LMIS 2004)     100%           100%            100%           100%
                   oxazole,                                                      Oxytocin: 90%  Oxytocin: 99%   Oxytocin: 95%  Oxytocin:
                   Diazepam                                                      Diazepam:      Diazepam:       Diazepam:      95%
                   Inj., HIV Test                                                85%            87%             90%            Diazepam:
                   kits, TB                                                      HIV Test kits: HIV Test kits:  HIV Test kits: 95%
                   drugs)                                                        100%           100%            100%           HIV Test
                                                                                 TB drugs:      TB drugs:       TB drugs:      kits:
                                                                                 100%           100%            100%           100%
                                                                                                                               TB drugs:
                                                                                                                               100%
 Pillar 3:
Essential basic
equipment
Essential medical  % health        PAMIS       District/         To be           Baseline       Baseline yet to 80%            90%
equipment          facilities with             National          established in  established    be established
available at all   equipment in                                  2006
health facilities  line with
                   standard (to
                   be defined)
                   equipment




                                                                               34

                 list
Pillar 4:
Infrastructure
Adequate health  % health        PAMIS      District/    59% (HMIS       65%           60%                    90%
facilities       facilities with            National     2003)
available        functioning
                 water,
                 electricity &
                 communicati
                 on
                 % health        PAMIS      District/    17% (2005-06)   35%           37%             40%    45%
                 facilities                 National                                   (self-reporting
                 satisfying all                                                        by districts)
                 four infra-
                 structure
                 requirements
                 % districts     Transport  District/    To be           Baseline      Baseline               80%
                 with            Unit       National     established in  established   established
                 functioning                             2006
                 ambulances
                 that satisfy
                 requirements
Pillar 5:
Routine
Operations
Routine          % of            HMIS       District/    72.11%          75%           77%             80%    85%
operations at    supervision     (CMERD)    National     (455/                         (425/552)
service delivery visits made to                          631)
level adequately health                                  (2005-2006)
carried out      facilities and
                 written
                 feedback
                 provided
                 # of SLAs       District   District/    55 (self-       94 (incl. 39  56 (self-       100    125
                 signed with     health     National     reporting by    new SLAs)     reporting by
                 CHAM &          office                  districts)                    districts)
                 other           records                 (2006-07)
                 providers




                                                                       35

Pillar 6: Central
institutions
Central           % districts    HMIS    National    Timeliness:     Timeliness:    Timeliness:    Timeliness:    Timeliness:
institutions      reporting      (CMERD)             10%             60%            46%            60%            80%
support           timely data                        Reporting       Reporting      Reporting      Reporting      Reporting
strengthened                                         status: 88%     status:        status: 98%    status:        status:
                  % facilities                       (HMIS 2004)     100%           (HMIS 2008)    100%           100%
                  reporting data
                  (according to
                  national
                  guidelines)
Health
Financing
Entire health     % GOM          MOF     National    11.1% (MOF,     12.6%          13.5%          14.0%          14.5%
sector funded     budget                             2005)
adequately        allocated to
                  health sector



                  % of           MOH     National    % Annual        % Annual       % Annual       % Annual       % Annual
                  Recurrent                          Recurr. Budget  Recurr. Budget Recurr. Budget Recurr. Budget Recurr.
                  Budget                             Funded:         Funded:        Funded:        Funded:        Budget
                  funded and                         91%             100%                          100%           Funded:
                  utilised                           (2004-05)                                                    100%
                  annually                           % Annual                       % Annual
                                                     Recurr.         % Annual       Recurr         % Annual
                                                     Funding         Recurr.        Funding        Recurr.        % Annual
                                                     Utilized:       Funding        Utilized:      Funding        Recurr.
                                                     101% (2004-     Utilized: 100%                Utilized: 100% Funding
                                                     05)                                                          Utilized:
                                                                                                                  100%
                  per capita     MOF     National    US$ 7.6 (2004-  US$13.2        -              US$ 16.7       US$ 17.0
                  allocation                         05)
                  (GoM and
                  donor) to
                  health sector
                  (USD)




                                                                   36

                                 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                                     (including assumptions in the analysis)



A detailed economic and financial analysis was completed prior to inception of the HSSP and
was included in the PAD (Annex 9). The Benefit incidence analysis conducted as part of this
analysis indicated that health services are more progressive than other social services, such as
education. Poorer households utilize public health facilities more frequently than richer
households (Quintiles 4 and 5), as indicated in column 2 of Table 1 showing that the poorest
quintiles 1, 2 and 3 have ratios exceeding 1.0, while the richest quintile is less than 1.0.

This could be due to the higher frequency of illness among poorer households. The results of this
analysis indicates that, in general, more public money spent on health would benefit the poorer
segments of the population more than if these were invested, hypothetically, in secondary and
tertiary education, or agricultural extension, which tend to be more regressive. This preliminary
analysis supports the rationale for the Bank's financing of the HSSP, as noted in the CAS.


 Table 1. Average Benefit Ratios of Health, Education, Water, and Agricultural Extension Services in the
                                            Public Sector in Malawi, 2004

 Quintiles        Access to          Primary           Secondary           Tertiary  Access to  Access to
                    Health           Education         Education          Education   Water    Agricultural
                   Services         Enrolment          Enrolment          Enrolment  Services   Extension
                                                                                                Services
Poorest              1.02              0.96               0.19               0.00     0.97        0.84
Quintile 1
Quintile 2           1.14              1.03               0.43               0.14     0.96        0.95
Middle               1.01              1.04               0.40               0.34     0.98        1.00
Quintile 3
Quintile 4           1.00              1.01               1.18               0.27     0.96        1.12
Richest              0.83              0.97               2.79               4.24     1.13        1.10
Quintile 5
Source: Analysis based on the Second Malawi Integrated Household Survey, 2004




                                                            37

         Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

         Names                         Title                    Unit         Responsibility/
                                                                                Specialty
Sheila Dutta           Senior Health Spec.                     AFTH1      TTL (at closing)
Ramesh Govindaraj      Senior Health Spec.                     AFTH3      TTL (at appraisal)
Alfred Chirwa          Population Specialist                   AFTH1      TTL /Malaria Booster
Kofi Awanyo            Senior Procurement Specialist           EAPCO      Procurement
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus  Senior Procurement Specialist           AFTPC      Procurement
Simon Chirwa           Procurement Specialist                  AFTPC      Procurement
Wedex Ilunga           Procurement Spec.                       AFTPC      Procurement
Gert Van Der Linde     Sr Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM      Financial Management
Donald Mphande         Sr. Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM      Financial Management
Fenwick Chitalu        Financial Management Specialist         AFTFM      Financial Management
Francis Mkandawire     Consultant (Financial Management)       AFTFM      Financial Management
Joseph Valadez         Senior M&E Specialist                   AFTHD      M&E/Malaria
Khama Rogo             Lead Specialist                         AFTH3      Health
Christopher Walker     Lead Specialist                         AFTH1      Health
Homira Nassery         Sector Information Officer              HDNHE      Health
Oscar Picazo           Senior Economist (Health)               AFTH1      Health



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                           No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                 40                           231.31
FY05                                 31                           80.91
FY06                                                              0.00
FY07                                                              0.00
FY08                                                              0.00

Total:                               71                           312.22
Supervision/ICR
FY04                                                              0.00
FY05                                 26                           94.89
FY06                                 54                           190.83
FY07                                 47                           115.63
FY08                                 62                           146.54

                             Total:              189                           547.89




                                               38

                            Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
                                         (if any)



A beneficiary survey was not conducted.




                                            39

                    Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                                           (if any)


Stakeholders were interviewed during the ICR preparation mission. No stakeholder workshop
was conducted.




                                              40

        Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


(Comments from the Borrower have been requested)




                                          41

            Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


DfID, as the current Chair of the Health Donors Group, provided the World Bank with their
internal assessment of the performance of the Health SWAp. This report is dated October 2008
and consequently reflects the same implementation period as the HSSP.

Although both the Bank assessment and the DFID assessment note largely the same challenges,
the DFID report provides an overall "Satisfactory" rating to the Health SWAp.

A summary of the October 2008 DfID assessment appears below and the full report has been
included in the project files.




                                               42

Attached excerpted from the following DfID report:
Improving health in Malawi: A sector wide approach including Essential Health Package and Emergency Human Resources Programme. October 10,
2008.

Goal
Goal Statement.

                                             Improved health status of all Malawians



Objectively Verifiable Indicators (OVIs)

                                             Progress.                                                Recommendations/Comments.
1
                                                                                                      Extrapolations are attached. Serious geographical and socio
                                                                                                      economic inequality persist
                                                                                                      DHS 2009 should be reviewed for progress in this respect
                    Reduction in under-five  Progress being made ­ on track to meet original 2011     Target has been made more ambitious - to 76 per 1000 live births
                    child mortality rate to  target. Possibly on track to meet revised target.        by 2011
                    104 deaths per 1,000     Under 5 mortality rate declined from 133 per 1000 live
                    live births by 2011      births (2000-4) to 122 in 2006 (MICS)




                                             Progress being made ­ probably not on track to meet      Extrapolations are attached DHS survey in 2009. Serious
                                             2011 target.                                             geographical and socio economic inequality persist
                    Reduction in maternal    Maternal mortality rate declined from 984 per 100,000    DHS 2009 should be reviewed for progress in this respect. Target
                    mortality ratio by half  (2000-4) to 807 in 2006                                  has been made more ambitious to 560 per 100,000 births in 2011
                    from 1120 to
                    600/100,000 by 2011
2

                                                                                                      Target is now for prevalence rate to be less than 12% by 2011.
                     To reduce the                                                                    Serious geographical and socio economic inequality persist. DHS
                    proportion of 15-24 year Already met. Sentinel site surveillance confirms that    2009 should be reviewed for progress in this respect
                    old pregnant women       prevalence rate has fallen to 12.3% in 2007/8.
                    who are HIV positive to
3                   below 14% by 2011




                                                                                     43

Purpose


                                               Improved access to & quality, effectiveness and accountability of essential health services.
Purpose Statement.
Objectively Verifiable Indicators (OVIs)
                                                                                                              Recommendations/Comments- if progress not as planned, give time
                                               Progress.                                                      bound action points
                     Increase in health        On track (subject to triangulation from health facility study) Figures are self reported. Health Facility Survey being carried out in
                    facilities with ability to 74% of facilities able to deliver OPD, immunization, family    2008 should be used to triangulate data. Essential Health Package
                    provide Essential Health   planning and maternity services (self reported) up from 9%     has expanded since start of PoW
                    Package from 10% to        in 2002 (JICA study)
                    80%
1
                                                                                                              There is some variation between districts but all but four districts
                                                                                                              have rates above 80% (and those which don't are very close). In
                                               On track 84% of 1 year olds have been immunized against        terms of health achieving health benefits the key is for all districts to
                                               measles                                                        achieve coverage rates of at least 80% (to ensure herd immunity. In
                    Extended Program of        Essentially achieved from a public health perspective.         effect a target over 80% is unnecessary). Target has been increased
                    Immunization coverage                                                                     to 90% for 2011. CABS indicator
                    increased to above 85%
2
                                                                                                              Data currently available uses HMIS rather than sample based MICS
                     Increase in deliveries                                                                   approach (MICS data showed 56% coverage in 2006). DHS 2009
                    attended by skilled        Progress being made: 45% of births attended by skilled         should verify progress
                    health personnel from      health personnel up from 38% in 2004/5 according to HMIS
                    56% to 75%
3                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                              1/3 of people registering for treatment reflects the fact that
                                                                                                              extremely ill people ­ typically referred from TB clinics were
                    Number of people on        Target has already been exceeded. 121,000 were alive and       initially put on treatment. Adherence rates have been surprisingly
                    antiretroviral therapy     on ARVs by end of March 2008. The target for 2010/11 is        high.
                    from 9000 to 100 000       now 208,000 (184,405 people registered on treatment since
                                               2004 of which 61% women (October 2008))

4
                                               Progress but some concerns Increase between 2004 and           Data based on DHS 2004 and MICS 2006. Will be measured during
                     Insecticide Treated Bed   2006 in proportion of pregnant women sleeping under an         2009 DHS. Target for 2010/11 has been increased to 90%. 1.1m bed
                    Net coverage increased     ITN the previous night (from 14.7% to 25.8%) and under 5s      nets were distributed in 2007/8 compared to a target of 1.5m and
                    from 35% to 60%            (from 14.8% to 24.7%). 48% U5 children slept under an ITN      there are concerns that the future procurement pipeline is weak
5                                              the previous




                                                                                       44

                                              night (WMS 2007)


Purpose to goal:- how far assumptions are     Achievement of purpose should contribute significantly to goals. The increase in ARV coverage, in particular, is a remarkable
being met and achievement of purpose          achievement in a resource constrained environment.
contributes to Goal                           HIV prevention efforts have been strengthened (increases in awareness of how to avoid sexual transmission, increases in CPR, large
                                              increase in access to PMTCT and increased efforts to make PEP (post exposure prophylaxis available)) and there is evidence to
                                              suggest a reduction in HIV incidence (prevalence down and people living longer). Resources have increased over time ­ with
                                              funding through the pool more than doubling from $5.2per head in 2004/5 to $12.5. Environmental hygiene and nutrition remain
                                              key external factors which will influence progress towards goals
                                              2: Likely to be largely achieved. There is good progress towards purpose completion and most outputs
                                              are likely to be achieved, particularly the most important ones

Project Purpose Score.

                                              Two of the key purpose indicators have already been achieved, two seem to be on track and for the other two progress is being
                                              made. In some cases more ambitious targets have been set. Progress is strong in quantitative terms, there are some questions about
                                              quality and accountability. There are further questions as to whether sufficient progress is being made in terms of systems reforms to
Justification.                                sustain and accelerate progress. Progress remains fragile and vulnerable to reversal.
Project Purpose Risk Category.                High
                                              There is no overall change in the risk assessment. The specific were outlined in detail in the last review ­ trends are reported here:

                                              Political risks

                                              These remain and are likely to increase in the run up to the elections. However, the review did not find specific evidence that these
                                              concerns were being realized. Commitment for reform continues. There has been progress in steps to agree the long term future of
                                              Central Medical Stores ­ a Cabinet Paper has been submitted and it is understood the President is committed. (Discussed in Cabinet
                                              16th October ­ outcome should be known shortly)

                                              Program risks
                                                   ·     Prioritization and the Essential Health Package. concerns that the MOH does not own the EHP appear to have
                                                         declined. The EHP was continually referred to during the Annual Review and the Ministry continually emphasizes the
                                                         crucial role played by the districts in delivering it. However, the extent to which the EHP plays a role in revenue raising is
                                                         debatable and there are risks that the EHP will expand and the focus will be lost. The long term recurrent implication of
                                                         the ART scale up and its effects on other areas of spending remain a major concern
                                                   ·     Human resources. Possible loss of strategic direction on HR remains a concern but the need to ensure new recruits are
                                                         paid on time and to reduce the gap between when nurses complete their training and are qualified to practice and their
                                                         reflection in the milestones suggest efforts in this direction. Concern that the erosion of salaries by inflation would
Has the Project Purpose Risk Category                    undermine productivity remains an issue but was not particularly highlighted during the review
changed since the last review? If yes explain      ·     Continued efforts to improve accountability. The MOH still appear to attach relative little importance to procurement
why.                                                     and financial management issues seeing malpractice as an individual rather than a systematic issue. Misprocurement rates




                                                                                         45

                                                      are reported to have declined but remain high
                                                ·     Effects of lower TA on performance. The Ministry seems to have prioritized its TA needs well. There now appears to
                                                      be greater ownership of TA. The Annual Review Report was considered to be an improvement in earlier versions
                                                ·     Financing Concerns about long term Government budgetary commitment remain. However, the current year has seen a
                                                      major increase in the domestic contributions to the sector. Predictability of donor funding appears to be a greater concern.
                                                ·     Data Quality The quality of the data presented in this review is variable. A number of specific studies have been
                                                      commissioned to verify some of the data sourced from the HMIS and to collect key outcome and output data. There is a
                                                      risk that finding from these studies will present a rather different picture.

                                           Harmonization Risks

                                           The risk that efforts to harmonize will slacken remains. However, indications are reasonably positive. The Global Fund has agreed
                                           to quarterly meetings, to move towards the use of common milestones for disbursement and participated extensively during the
                                           annual review. Although, it still has a tendency towards bilateral meetings it seems apparent that there are strong incentives for the
                                           Fund both at global and country level to make pooled funding work (especially given the apparent failure of its engagement in the
                                           pool in Mozambique). Pooled donor funding, as a whole, is far higher than was anticipated in the original Project Memorandum
                                           ($53.6m in 2007/8 compared to an expected $32m). At the same time overall donor support at ~ $70m is well below the anticipated
                                           $100m due to lower than projected support from discrete projects

                                           Fiduciary Risks
                                           Remain high. Improvements in expenditure controls but budget planning does not seem to have improved. Transition to use of
                                           national procurement systems implies further risks (for more details see draft fiduciary assessment)
New risks identified, ranked according to  Loss of effective procurement oversight arrangements. Agreeing new procurement oversight arrangements is a key issue
impact and probability                     following the end of the World Bank credit and previous reliance on the Bank to undertake this role. A timetable has been developed
                                           ­ the risk is that this will not be followed through. The potential impact of these arrangements not going ahead is high but the
                                           probability appears to be low ­ DFID is committed to taking this forward in partnership with the key stakeholders. The risk appears
                                           worth taking ­ the proposed approach identifies a clear exit strategy for donors with Government taking over full responsibility for
                                           procurement by 2011. (High impact/medium risk)

                                           Weaknesses in the drug supply chain DFID has been active in the CMS reform steering committee but is encouraging: a) USAID
                                           to take on this role, b) civil society to identify funding needs and c) for UNICEF to provide TA at district level (Medium
                                           impact/.high risk)

                                           Failure in SWAp governance structures: TWGs meet irregularly. Lack of ownership of TWGs from senior MOH staff. SWAp
                                           secretariat staff has been beefed up. Milestones are proving an increasingly effective means of holding Government to account.
                                           Concerns about under-representation by senior MOF officials in the SWAp remain. DFID has been lobbying the SWAp secretariat
                                           strongly in ways of reinvigorating the process (Medium impact/medium risk)

                                           Failure to agree budget undermines planning processes Habitual delays in passing of the budget - including the 2008/9 budget
                                           which, although now passed, involves significant under funding in areas of concern to development partners ­ continue to pose risks
                                           (Medium impact/medium risk.)




                                                                                       46

Action being taken to manage (monitor)
risks.
                                                 Close monitoring of the procurement oversight contract


Recommended changes to plans or
management strategies in respect of project
associated risks.

Does the Logframe Require Revision?              Current log frame has indicators can be cross referenced to those in the SWAp M&E framework. No baselines or measurable targets
Comment. If yes, also attach old and new         for outputs are included ­ these were presumably not available at the time the Project Memorandum was drafted. Many have now
logframe to the review, highlighting changes     been included in the SWAp M&E framework; Government has agreed to set baselines where this has not yet been done



Do the DSO, Cross Cutting Markers require
revision? Is yes explain why. (Mandatory for
first review after 1 Apr 08 for projects
created before 01/04/2008) New PHS must
be created
Outputs
                                                                                                                                                             Recommendations/
                                                                                                                                                             Comments - if progress
                                                                                                                                                             not as planned, give
                                                 Weight      Output         Objectively Verifiable Indicators                                                time bound action
Output                                           (%)         Risk           (OVIs)                               Progress                                    points
                                                                            ·   Vacancy levels in target         Good progress
                                                  40                            cadres                           ·     Target cadres are not defined in the
                         Adequate numbers of                 Medium         ·   PE budget                              PM ­ presumably this refers doctors
                         trained and skilled                 Risk           ·   Outflow rates                          and nurses. Progress against these    Recommended that
                         personnel for all                   High           ·   Salary structure                       cadres is outlined below ­ on track   MOH are requested to
                         health facilities (inc.             Impact         ·   % of facilities with full              for nurses, progress but slower than  provide data on outflow
                         CHAM                                                   staffing complement                    planned for doctors. Vacancy levels   rates
                                                                                                                       may have actually increased due to
                                                                                                                       Functional Review but HR supply
                                                                                                                       situation has definitely improved.
                                                                                                                       HRH census and SWAP mid term
                                                                                                                       review report significant progress in
                                                                                                                       terms of vacancy rates
                                                                                                                 ·     PE budget has increased. Decline in
                                                                                                                       share of budget to PE has reversed.
1                                                                                                                      There have been problems with




                                                                                         47

                                                                                   overruns in PE expenditure as the
                                                                                   cost of promotion and new recruits
                                                                                   has not been budgeted for
                                                                             ·     No evidence presented on outflow
                                                                                   rates at SWAp review. HRH census
                                                                                   illustrates continued heavy attrition
                                                                                   through death; the Ministry reports
                                                                                   migration is reduced
                                                                             ·     Not clear what is meant by salary
                                                                                   structure ­ but the 52% increase for
                                                                                   target cadres in salary rates was
                                                                                   implemented
                                                                             ·     There has been an increase in health
                                                                                   centers meeting minimum staffing
                                                                                   complements (from 6% to 13%) ­
                                                                                   achieved more rapidly than
                                                                                   anticipated but still low. Doctor and
                                                                                   nurse/population ratios have
                                                                                   improved. Number of doctors
                                                                                   graduated doubled from 2004
                                                                                   baseline (33 compared to 16) and is
                                                                                   expected to double again by 2011

2
                            20   Medium
                                 Risk                                         Progress but problems persist Stock
                                 High     Routine availability of             outs remain high ­ especially for some
     Adequate volume of          Impact   pharmaceuticals and medical         drugs and tests and especially in health
     pharmaceuticals and                  supplies at % of health facilities  centers
     medical and                          (disaggregated e.g. health centre,
     laboratory supplies at               district hospitals)
     service delivery
     points (inc. CHAM)




                                                         48

3
                            5    Medium                                                                                  Need to establish
                                 Risk                                                                                    baseline (included as
     Essential medical           Low       Essential medical equipment        Progress unclear PoW planned to set out    MOH milestone at
     equipment available         Impact    available in % of facilities       baseline in 2006 ­ this has not yet been   review)
     (inc. CHAM                            (disaggregated e.g. health centre, done. Only 60% of the 2007/8 budget for
                                           district hospitals)                medical equipment was disbursed




                                                                              Some progress
4                                                                             60% of facilities reported to have access
                            10   Medium                                       to water, electricity and communications
     Improvements in             Risk      % of facilities operating to       (compared to baseline 59% HMIS 2003)
     access to services          Medium    infrastructure standards           Ongoing Health Facility Survey should
     through facility            Impact    % of population within 5km of a    verify progress
     development (inc.                     health centre                      To be measured in 2008 when GPS
     CHAM)                                                                    coordinates are updated (2004 baseline
                                                                              46% - target for 2008/9 = 70%


                                                                                                                         Not clear if
                                                                              Some progress ­ but slower than            supervision feedback is
                                                                              expected in some areas % of health         acted upon
                                                                              centers receiving quarterly supervision
                                                                              visits (reworded by reviewer) with         SLAs need to be
5                                                                             written feedback received has increased    negotiated on an
                            15                                                from 72% in 2005/6 to 77%                  individual basis which
     Routine operations at       High Risk A range of support services        56 Service Level Agreements signed with    is extremely
     service delivery level      Low       effectively delivered              CHAM (compared to 55 in 2006/7 and a       management and time
     provided (inc.              Impact                                       target of 94. (Alternative source suggests intensive
     CHAM)                                                                    60 SLAs have been signed
                                                                                                                         Some evidence of a
                                                                                                                         dramatic increase in the
                                                                                                                         share of deliveries
                                                                                                                         taking place in facilities
                                                                                                                         ­ presumably
                                                                                                                         concentrated on poorer
                                                                                                                         groups ­ as fees have




                                                          49

                                                                                                                                                             been abolished under
                                                                                                                                                             SLA




6
                                                                                                                                                             DFID has
                                              10          Medium                                                                                             commissioned a
                                                          Risk          Central level institutions                                                           consultant to consider
                        Central support to                Low           effectively staffed                                                                  the extent to which
                        service delivery and              Impact        Central level institutions                                                           these constitute real
                        policy and systems                              effectively operating                  Some progress. Of most interest here are      improvements
                        development                                      Adequate policies and systems         progress in terms of financial
                                                                        developed and in-place to              management and procurement. The
                                                                        efficiently and equitably guide        Ministry reports improvements in results
                                                                        health sector HR                       of successive audits up to the current
                                                                                                               interim 2007/8 audit especially in terms
                                                                                                               of missing payment vouchers,
                                                                                                               appropriate stamping of documents,
                                                                                                               updating of cash books and bank
                                                                                                               reconciliation. Procurement audits reveal
                                                                                                               a decline in misprocurements from
                                                                                                               around 100% to 57% (though this
                                                                                                               accounts for ~3%) by value. Draft
                                                                                                               fiduciary assessment suggests
                                                                                                               improvement in expenditure controls (but
                                                                                                               not in budgeting)


Total                                         100%                                                                                                           Impact Risk
                                                                                                                                                             Impact Score
Purpose Attribution
Purpose Attribution:- how far achievement     Although other factors will play a role achievement of the outputs should contribute substantially to achievement of the purpose.
of purpose can be attributed to delivery of   Availability of human resources and drugs are well acknowledged as critical constraints to sector progress. Progress on human
outputs                                       resources, in particular, will have contributed directly to improvements in access to services (see charts in annexes)




                                                                                        50

How does the financing of other donors   From 2004/05 to end 2007/8 donor pooled funding amounted to some $177.7m. DFID was the largest donor at $78.9m (44.4% of
contribute to achievement of the SWAp or the total), with substantial inputs from Norway $62.7m, smaller inputs from the World Bank, (whose program is no longer active -
BS                                       $12.8m), the Global Fund $22.8m and UNFPA $0.5m. Germany, although committed, has yet to contribute. Donors also provided
                                         funding through discrete projects to the value of Mk 2.49 (around a third of pooled funding). There is other off budget funding for
                                         the PoW but this has not been quantified. The Global Fund is potentially the largest donor to health and HIV/ADS with a
                                         commitment of $477m to 2012 (of which some is outside the SWAp) although disbursements have been slow

                                         To date GOM has provided 61% of pooled funds (although it increased to 68% in 2007/8 reversing a significant decline since
                                         2004/5)
What has been the impact on relevant     It is not yet possible to assess progress against key outcome indicators ­ a Demographic and Health Survey will be completed in
indicators?                              2009 though results may not be available before the October 2009 review. Extrapolation of trends from 2000 suggests that unless
                                         progress is accelerated MMR targets may not be achieved; the prospects for infant and child mortality are more favorable (Annex 1)

                                         Out of 30 SWAp program indicators with annual targets:
                                               ·    21 achieved the targets
                                               ·    6 did not achieve the targets
                                               ·    3 partially achieved the targets (MOH assessment)

What has been the track record of the    Donor predictability is a concern. Figures presented at the Annual Review suggested that donors only provided around 51% of what
partner government and other donors in   they had committed. However, there are discrepancies in the figures (donors provide separate and often inconsistent data to MOH,
implementation?                          MOF and the IMF). It is highly likely that the degree of unpredictability has been overstated. At the same time the reasons for lower
                                         disbursements need to be further explored. The need to have agreed figures on pledges is recognized in the milestones for 2008/9
                                         and the need for more specific reporting on predictability at forthcoming annual revise is recommended. (Note: DFID is reported as
                                         disbursing 81% of its pledges. This is because its final contribution of $6.56m was received on July 3rd just after the end of the
                                         2007/8 financial year. Changes in the exchange rate are also responsible for a small discrepancy between pledges and
                                         disbursements).

                                         Key highlights in terms of implementation progress:
                                               ·    Targets for share of health centers achieving minimum staffing norms exceeded (13% compared to 6%) but rates remain
                                                    low
                                               ·    OPD utilization has increased by 50% during the SWAp from 0.8 visits per head to 1.2 (HMIS)
                                               ·    Health worker/population ratios have improved ­ from 1:62000 for doctors in 2004 to 1:53662 (but not meeting the target
                                                    of 1:40000) and for nurses from 1:4000 to 1:3062 (exceeding the target of 1:3200) (HMIS)
                                               ·    Number of people alive and on ARV treatment has more than tripled from 30,000 in 2005 to over 110,000 (March 2008)

                                         Progress against the agreed milestones has been mixed. There are many milestones and there is little prioritization between them and
                                         it is not appropriate to weight them equally. However, of the 61 milestones from the last review reported on 27 had been achieved,
                                         22 had not and 12 partially achieved (reviewer assessment). Relatively few of the milestones were SMART ­ many referred to the
                                         initiation of tasks and completion of reports rather than any subsequent implementation

                                         Progress against general budget support (CABS) indicators is generally positive:




                                                                                    51

                                         ·   measles immunization rates increased from 82% in 2005 to 84% (MICS 2006 85.2%)
                                         ·   deliveries with skilled attendant rose from 38% in 2004/5 to 45%
                                         ·   proportion of health facilities with at least the minimum package of PMTCT services has increased from 7% in 2005 to
                                             83%
                                         ·   reduction in nurse/population ratio (as outlined above)

What priority reforms remain to be    Weaknesses remain in many areas which will require serious attention
completed?                               ·   Financial management: concerns the Functional Review actually reduced staffing numbers; Financial Management
                                             Improvement Plan in place ­ implementation needs to be intensified
                                         ·   Procurement: timely completion of procurement plans and audit, transition in procurement oversight arrangements and
                                             donor exit strategy allied to efforts to build capacity of ODPP, coordination between ministries of Health, Finance and
                                             Local Government, lack of capacity, inability to sanction misbehavior
                                         ·   Human resource: developing incentives to encourage staff to work in remote areas, supervision systems to promote better
                                             productivity, development of systems which track progress in staffing levels. Addressing physical capacity constraints in
                                             training facilities
                                         ·   Essential drugs; establishment of CMS at Trust, need to address stock out issues, quantification of needs by facilities,
                                             significant arrears by many districts at CMS, assessing financial needs and identifying allocation formula
                                         ·   Laboratory services ­ poorly trained staff, failure of staff to register with Medical Council, measures to ensure availability
                                             of reagents, poor maintenance of equipment, quality of test results, coordination between DHOs and CHAM




                                                                             52

                           Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Carlson, Cindy et al. Malawi Health SWAp Mid-term Review, September, 2007

College of Medicine and Medical Association of Malawi, Malawi Medical Journal, Volume 18
Number 1, March 2005

DFID Health Systems Resource Centre, Harmonized Support to the Health Sector in Malawi
2003 ­ 2009, July 2003

DFID. Improving health in Malawi: A sector wide approach including Essential Health Package
and Emergency Human Resources Programme. October 10, 2008 (prepared by M. Pearson).

Government of Malawi. Memorandum of Understanding concerning the Health Sector Wide
Approach in Malawi between the Government of Malawi and the Health Sector Collaborating
Partners (Signed on October 29, 2004)

Government of Malawi and United Nations Development Program, The Impact of HIV/AIDS on
Human Resources in the Malawi Public Sector, February 2002

Government of Malawi, Implementation Completion Report of the Population Health and
Nutrition Project, October 2001

Government of Malawi, Main Report, "SWAps: Today, Tomorrow, Together" November 2002

Government of Malawi, Malawi National Health Plan 1999 ­ 2004: Volume 3 ­ Health Sector
Human Resources Plan, November 1999

Government of the Republic of Malawi, Annual Report of the Work of the Malawi Health Sector
July 2004 to June 2005, September 2005

Government of the Republic of Malawi, Health SWAp Mid-Term Review

HLSP Consulting, Strengthening Malawi Central Medical Stores Phase 1; Proposal for Project
Extension, July 2002

Hozumi, Dai. Status of Health Services Facilities in Malawi. Findings from Preliminary
Analysis of the Malawi Health Facility Survey 2002. Study submitted to the Ministry of
Health and Population and funded by JICA. (October 2003)

Kadewele, Godfrey. EHP Drugs through a Strengthened CMS

Ministry of Health Malawi, Health Management Information Bulletin, Annual Report July 2004 ­
June 2005, September 2005

Malawi Medical Journal, Special Edition on Equity, The Journal of the College of Medicine and
Medical Association of Malawi, Vol. 18, No. 1, March 2006



                                              53

Ministry of Health. Annual report for the work of the Malawi health sector - July 1, 2007- June
30, 2008. September, 2008

Noor, Abdum. Implementation Completion Report, 2001

ORC Macro. 2004 Malawi demographic and health survey. Calverton, MD, July 2006

ORC Macro. Nutrition of young children and mothers in Malawi. Findings from the 2004 Malawi
Demographic and Health Survey. Calverton, MD, July 2006

Partners for Health Reform plus. System wide Effects of the Global Fund in Malawi: Final Report,
September 2006

Picazo, Oscar. Minutes of PCD Review Meeting ­ Malawi Child Health and Nutrition Project,
June 2000

Picazo, Oscar. Health Outcomes, Household Health Behavior, and Service Delivery System in
Malawi: A Review. World Bank Working Paper Series. July 2005

World Bank, Implementation Completion and Results Report (IDA -34030, ITAL-24927) Eritrea
Integrated Early Childhood Development Project, March 2007

World Bank. Malawi: The Challenge of Human Development and Service Delivery, June 2001

World Bank, Malawi Health Expenditure Review, April 1999

World Bank. Poverty and vulnerability assessment. Investing in our future. June 2006.

World Bank. Debt Relief at the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative
Completion Point and Under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). August
2006

UNICEF, Report on the Rapid Assessment of the Warehouses in the Central Medical Store and
the Four ARV Program Introductory Phase Sites in Malawi, November 2003

UNICEF; WHO and Malawi Government. Community IMCI baseline survey in Malawi.
December 2000

UNICEF; Malawi Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey, 2006. National Statistical Office,
Malawi; UNICEF, 2008




                                              54

                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33440

                      32°E                                                            34°E                                                                     36°E




                                                                               To

                                        To             Songwe             Mbeya               TANZANIANZANIA
                                     Tunduma
                                                           ChitipaChitipa
                                                                                                                                                                        MALAWI
                                                                                      Karonga

10°S                                                         ChisengaChisenga                                                                                                            10°S
                                                                                 KARONGA
                                                                                 KARONGA
                                                     To         CHITIPA
                                                                CHITIP
                                                  Muyombe
                                                                         Nykia
                                                                         Nykia
                                                                  (2,606 m)
                                                                  (2,606 m)                    Chilumba

                                                                             Chelinda
                                                                             Chelinda         Mkondowe
                                                      To
                                                   Muyombe                               Livingstonia
                                                                  Katumbe
                                                                  Katumbe
                                                                   RUMPHIRUMPHI
                                                                                     Rumphi
                                                                                     Rumphi

                                                                                               Ruarwe
                                                                         MZIMBA
                                                                         MZIMBA
                                                            Kafukule
                                                            Kafukule              tns. Mzuzu
                                                                                       Mzuzu
                                                              Euthini
                                                              Euthini            M
                                                            NORTHERNNORTHERN                    Nkhata
              Z A M B I A                                                        NKHATA
                                                                                 NKHA
                                                                                     BA
                                                                                     BAY
                                                       Mzimba
                                                       Mzimba                    Chinteche
                                                                                 Chinteche                   (MALAWI)
12°S                                                                       Viphya                 Bay



                                                                                                                                                                                        12°S
                                                                             Luwawa
                                                                             Luwawa               Lake
                                                                                                      M
                                                    To
                                                  Lundazi
                                                                               Nkhunga
                                                                               Nkhunga


                                                     Kaluluma
                                                     Kaluluma                                          alawi
                                                     K A S U N G U                               Nkhotakota
                                                                Kasungu
                                                                Kasungu
                                                                                      NKHOTAKOT
                                                                                      NKHOTAKOTA                                                     M O Z A M B I Q U E
                                                                              NTCHISI
                                                                              NTCHISI
                                                                                      Ntchisi
                                                                                      Ntchisi
                                                        C E N T R A L
                                           MCHINJI
                                           MCHINJI                DOW
                                                                  DOWA                DowaDowa SALIMA
                                                                                               SALIMA          Makanjila
                                  To         Mchinji
                                             Mchinji    Bua
                                 Chipata                                                  SalimaSalima

14°S                                                                             LILONGWELILONGWE                                                                                       14°S
                                                            Namitete
                                                            Namitete                                                        Monkey
                                                                LILONGWE
                                                                LILONGWE                                                    Bay                           To
                                              To                                           DEDZADEDZA                                                 Cuamba
                                          Furancungo                                           DedzaDedza               M A N G O C H I

                                                                                                                                         MangochiMangochi
                                                                                              To
                                                                                          Ulongwe

                                                                                                             NTCHEUNTCHEU   S O U T H E R N
 0  20 40 60 80 100 Kilometers                                                                                                                                           To
                                       M O Z A M B I Q U E                                                     NtcheuNtcheu BalakaMACHINGAMACHINGA                Cuamba
                                                                                                                            Balaka

 0    20  40    60 Miles                                                                                                       Shire      MachingaMachinga
                      32°E                                                                                                                            Lake
                                                                                                                              ZOMBA
                                                                                                                              ZOMBA                  Chilwa
                                                                                                            MWANZAMWANZA                  ZombaZomba
         MALAWI                                                                                To                             LirangweLirangwe
                                                                                              Tete        MwanzaMwanzaBLANTYRE ChiradzuluPHALOMBEPHALOMBE
                                                                                                                  BLANTYRE
                                                                                                                                    Chiradzulu
                                                                                                               Blantyre
                                                                                                               Blantyre          CHIRADZULU
                                                                                                                                 CHIRADZULU              Phalombe
                                                                                                                                                         Phalombe
                                                                                                                                          MULANJE
                                                                                                                                              MULANJEMULANJE
          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                 16°S                                              ChikwawaChikwawa              MulanjeMulanje        SapitwaSapitwa
                                                                                                                            THYOLO
                                                                                                                            THYOLO                                                     16°S
                                                                                                                                                         (3,002 m)
                                                                                                                                                         (3,002 m)
          DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                                                  ThyoloThyolo
                                                                                                            CHIKWAWACHIKWAWA                                   To
          REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                                     Liciro

          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                      N'gabuN'gabu
                                                                                                                                         To
          RIVERS                                                                                                                         Morire
                                                                                                                            NSANJENSANJE
          MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                         NsanjeNsanje
          RAILROADS

          DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
          REGION BOUNDARIES                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                 To
                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank             Vila de Sena

          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                              36°E

                                                                                                                                                                                  NOVEMBER 2004

