Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H248-MAI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Health Sector Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 5, 2006  
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H248-MAI 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated October 5, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MALAWI (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Original Financing Agreement, or in the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II – FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to three 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,500,000) 
(
“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”).  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the 
Financing in accordance with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.02. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.03. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.04. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and  
the Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the 
Ministry of Health in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  3
2
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is:  
Ministry of Finance 
 
P. O. Box 30049 
 Lilongwe 
3 
Malawi 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
FINANCE 
 44407(MI) 
 
 (265)1789173 
Lilongwe  
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  4
3
AGREED at Lilongwe, Republic of Malawi, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
By /s/ Goodall E. Gondwe 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Timothy R. Gilbo 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is similar to that of the Original Project, namely, to 
support the Recipient’s Program to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and quality of 
the essential health care delivery system provided to the poor, women and children. 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional activities 
related to Parts A and C of the Original Project: 
Part A
:
Quality of Health Care Services
Carrying out of Subprograms to assist the Recipient in the delivery of the EHP 
through the design and implementation of a robust and sustainable monitoring and 
evaluation system by inter alia
:
(a) improving the Recipient’s management of malaria control interventions;  
(b) using malaria outcomes as a proxy indicator to monitor changes in the quality 
and coverage of the delivery of the EHP; and  
(c) strengthening the Recipient’s monitoring and management of the health sector 
at central government and District levels through inter alia
:
(i) 
central government level
:
(A) restructuring the Recipient’s current health 
management information system unit (HMIS Unit) into a monitoring and evaluation unit 
(Monitoring and Evaluation Unit) within the Ministry of Health; (B) improving the 
Recipient’s capacity to consolidate and disseminate data; (C) strengthening the capacity 
of the Recipient’s Ministry of Health to use monitoring and evaluation data for policy 
formulation, planning and resource mobilization; (D) measuring of key health outcomes 
of the malaria program and other programs such as the integrated management  
of childhood illness, and maternal and neonatal health; and (E) carrying out of selected 
studies and surveys including impact evaluations to assess the Recipient’s health  
sector’s key outcome indicators; and  
(ii) 
District level
:
(A) strengthening community and health facility level data 
collection; (B) supporting District monitoring and evaluation teams and the current zonal 
and District review system; and (C) strengthening the capacity of the Recipient’s Districts 
to use monitoring and evaluation data for policy formulation, planning and resource 
mobilization. 
 
Page  6
5
Part B
:
Strengthening Health Support and Referral Systems
Carrying out of Subprograms to assist the Recipient in the delivery of the EHP 
through strengthening its physical, financial, technical and human monitoring and 
evaluation capacity at the central government and District level by inter alia
:
(a) 
central government level
:
improving the institutional capacity of the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Health to carry out monitoring and evaluation activities 
including: (i) carrying out of a comprehensive analysis of the Recipient’s physical, 
financial, technical and human monitoring and evaluation capacity to identify HMIS 
resource gaps; (ii) providing technical support and piloting of information technology 
tools; (iii) developing a logistics management information system assessment and quality 
assurance procedures; (iv) carrying out health facility assessments; and (v) carrying out 
staff training programs. 
(b) 
District level
:
strengthening the District and zonal capacity to carry out a 
decentralized monitoring and evaluation system including: (i) establishment of District 
monitoring and evaluation technical leadership teams; (ii) carrying out of staff training 
programs; (iii) adaptation, distribution and use of data management tools; (iv) provision 
of operational support including equipment and adequate human resources for health 
programs; and (v) harmonization of data collection activities. 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I.  
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Incorporation of Schedule 4 of the Original Financing Agreement 
1.
 
Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement is incorporated into this 
Agreement, as set forth therein. 
B.
 
Other Institutional Arrangements 
2. 
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
.
The Recipient shall restructure its HMIS Unit 
into the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit by July 1, 2007, with the responsibility 
for overall coordination of monitoring and evaluation activities. Without 
limitation to the generality of the foregoing, the Recipient shall ensure  
that: (a) the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit is staffed by at least four 
professional staff with terms of reference, qualifications and experience that are 
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) the said Unit is supported by such 
technical assistance as shall have been agreed with the Association, including 
without limitation, one internationally recruited consultant. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project  
set forth in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and prepare Project Reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions 
and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of 
this paragraph agreed with the Association. For the avoidance of  
doubt, the Project Reports prepared shall be consistent with 
 
those prepared for the Original Project under Section 4.02 and paragraph 
11 (b) (iii) of Section IV of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing 
Agreement, respectively.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
(i) 
proportion of mortality attributable to malaria; 
 
(ii) 
proportion of morbidity attributable to malaria; 
 
(iii) 
mortality from all causes among children under five years; 
Page  8
7
(iv) 
number of staff trained in monitoring and evaluation; 
 
(v) 
proportion of health facilities that undertake monitoring and 
 
evaluation activities and prepare reports in accordance with the 
 
Recipient’s monitoring and evaluation guidelines; 
 
(vi) 
proportion of children under five years and pregnant women 
 
diagnosed with severe malaria and receiving correct anti-malaria 
 
treatment in a timely manner in accordance with the Recipient’s 
 
national treatment guidelines; 
 
(vii) 
Proportion of febrile children under five years receiving correct 
 
anti-malaria treatment within twenty-four hours of acquiring 
 symptoms; 
 
(viii)  percentage of households with at least one insecticide 
 
 treated 
 
net; 
(ix) 
percentage of mosquito nets that have been treated with 
 
insecticide at least once in each year of Project implementation 
 
following the Effective Date of this Agreement; 
(x) 
percentage of children under five years of age sleeping under 
 insecticide 
treated 
nets; 
(xi) 
percentage of pregnant women sleeping under insecticide 
 
 
treated  nets; and  
 
(xii) 
percentage of pregnant women attending antenatal care receiving 
 
intermittent presumptive treatment in accordance with the 
 
Recipient’s national malaria policy.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.  For 
the avoidance of doubt, the interim un-audited reports referred to are the same 
report as the Financial Monitoring Report referred to in Section 4.02 of the 
Original Financing Agreement. 
Page  9
8
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with  
the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of  
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
Schedule 3 to the Original Financing Agreement is incorporated into this Agreement, as 
set forth therein. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures 
 
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the  
allocations of the amounts of the Financing to the Category, and the percentage  
of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in the Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
Subprograms 
3,500,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the Association 
may determine for each Fiscal 
Year 
Total Amount 
_________
3,500,000
2. 
The Closing Date is September 15, 2008. 
 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
3. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Grant Agreement for a 
Health Sector Support Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated 
February 7, 2005 as amended (Grant No. H1380 MAI). 
4. 
“Original Project” means the project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
