Document of                              c
The World Bank                       I    Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2660-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
ELEVENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
December 3, 1979
Thils document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thai Baht
$1.00       = B 20
B 1.00      = $0.05
$1 million    B 20 million
B 1 million = $50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)               -  2.47 acres or 6.25 rai
1 kilometer (km)             -  0.62 miles
i square kilometer (sq km)  -  0.386 square miles
1 meter (m)                  -  39.37 inches
1 square meter (sq m)        -  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cui m)        -  35.31 cubic feet
1 kilogram (kg)              -  2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC - Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
DAE  - Department of Agricultural Extension
O&M  - Operation and Maintenance
RID  - Royal Irrigation Development
SPI  - Svedrup and Parcel International, Inc.
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
ELEVENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:        Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:          $80 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.95%
per annum.
Project
Description: The proposed project will provide for the construction of
new irrigation facilities and the improvement of existing
facilities to irrigate 66,000 ha in the western region
(Meklong River) and 15,000 ha in the southern region
(Pattani River). Works will include the construction or
improvement of main, lateral, and tertiary canals and drains
and construction of adjacent farm roads. In addition, the
project will provide construction equipment, operation and
maintenance equipment, buildings, and consultancy services to
assist in the design and implementation of project works and
detailed engineering for an additional 30,000 ha Df the
Pattani irrigation development. The project will directly
benefit some 30,400 farm families, about 45% of wthom have
present incomes below the absolute poverty line. By utilizing
an assured water supply from existing as well as planned
hydroelectric schemes, the project will, at full development
in 1990, almost double the yields in the project area where
rainfed rice is the predominant crop. The project does not
entail risks beyond those already accounted for in
estimating yields, cropping intensities, and rates of
development.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the per formance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Estimated Cost:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
----- ($ million) -----
Civil works                           53.3     38.4      91.7
Equipment and vehicles                 0.7     13.8      14.5
Buildings                              1.3      0.2       1.5
Right-of-way                           9.8         -      9.8
Consultancy services                   2.3      3.4       5.7
Engineering & administration          10.1       1.8     11.9
Base cost                           77.5     57.6    135.1
Physical contingencies                 7.6      6.1      13.7
Price continvencies                   20.9     16.3      37.2
Total /1                           106.0     80.0    186.0
Financing Plan:
Government                           106.0      0.0    106.0
Bank                                   0.0     80.0      80.0
Total                            106.0      80.0    186.0
Estimated Disbursements from IBRD Loan:
Bank FY      1980 1981   1982   1983   1984    1985    1986
------------------($ million) -------- …-----
Annual       0.4   6.4    20.3   20.0   11.8    12.3    8.8
Cumulative  0.4   6.8    27.1   47.1   58.9    71.2   80.0
Rate of Return:      32X
Appraisal Report:   No. 2622-TH, dated November 26, 1979.
/1 Includes $13.7 million in taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE ELEVENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $80 million to help
finance the Eleventh Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 7.95% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that certain income groups have lagged behind this progress.
It identifies the essential characteristics of these groups and po-ints to
the need for continued overall development as well as the initiation of
specific meas'ires to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural
areas. It further discusses the constraints on the successful imp:Lementation
of these policies. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Despite frequent changes at the top levels of government, there is
a fundamental stability in the Thai society and bureaucracy. Recent changes in
governments have mainly reflected differences in view about Thailand's
external relations and about the political decision-making process within the
country but not fundamental differences about the social or economic system.
The civilian government formed in November 1977, under the prime ministership
of General Kriangsak Chomanan, had moved successfully to improve and stabilize
relations with Thailand's ASEAN partners. A new constitution was promulgated
in December 1978, and elections were held in April 1979. No party won a
majority of the seats in the lower house; the largest block, some 82 seats out
of 301, was won by the Social Action Party, led by the former Prime Minister
Kukrit Pramoj. The upper house was appointed and comprised mostly Kriangsak
supporters. The majority of the combined lower and upper houses selected
General Kriangsak as the new Prime Minister. After nearly a month of
negotiations, Kriangsak formed a coalition government with 29 ministers,
including 10 without portfolio in the Prime Minister's office. Many
personalities from the previous Cabinet remain, although some with different
responsibilities. Kriangsak's statements and the composition of the Government
indicate that this Government will continue the emphasis of the previous one
on rural development and poverty alleviation.



-2-
4.        A broad consensus has developed over the last several years on the
priorities for socioeconomic development, as expressed in the country's
Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81).
There is now increasing commitment to achieving a widespread distribution of
the benefits of growth. In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, and the flood relief program in 1978.
All these programs have been designed to produce quick and visible results,
the latter two in response to specific crises. They were also aimed at
increasing production capacity in rural areas and demonstrating the concern
of the Government for the plight of the rural population. There is an
increasing realization that an improvement in the conditions of the poorest
farmers and those living in the more remote areas uE not only desirable in
itself, but would also counteract political instability in the long run.
The new Government has yet to define its program, but no break from these
trends is foreseen. Recent developments in Indochina and the arrival of
refugees have occupied the new Government's attention. Coping t7ith these
problems will probably lead to some reallocation oF resources to refugee
relief and to strengthening Thailand's military position in border areas;
however, it is too soon to tell what the effects of these developments will
be on other programs.
Past Socioeconomic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  There
has been some deceleration in recent years; the average annual real GDP
growth rate from 1960 to 1978 was 7.5%, or about 4.4% per capita. Real
agricultural growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion.
The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year, water control was improved,
irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops including
maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber grew rapidly. Agriculture has also
been a major contributor to export growth. The Government maintained
economic and price stability throughout the period and encouraged private
savings and investment. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated
between 19% and 24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high
level of private investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10%
and a real growth of manufactured exports of 30% per year since 1970. All
this was achieved with a limited inflow of foreign resources and, until
recently, the resource gap remained below 5% of GDP.
6.        The growth in incomnes has, however, not been evenly distributed
throughout the country, and at present there are very significant regional
(ILFferentials in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure.
The regions are very different in terms of topography, climate, soils,
urbanization, etc., and present quite distinct problems for future develop-
ment. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest per capita
income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools, public
health and other services than the other three regions, the North, Northeast



- 3 -
and South. The incidence of poverty is estimated at only around 10% in the
Center, around 25% in the North and South, and around .35% in the Northeast.
Within the regions also there is considerable variation: farmers who have
diversified into cash crops have generally enjoyed substantial growth in real
incomes while the incomes of those who have been unable or unwilling to shift
out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. Recent research has shown
that the lack of cropping patterns and agricultural techniques appropriate to
the land and climatic conditions is a major factor in much of the rural
poverty. This is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in
the Northeast and North. Since there is a well functioning labor market, the
low incomes of this large group have tended to depress unskilled wages
throughout the economy.
7.        Overall, the rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s tc 7.1% p.a.,
compared to 8.3% in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil
price increase and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for
this deceleration is the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been
pushed into less fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural
growth to about 4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. During
1973 and part of 1974, this secular deceleration was hidden by very high
prices for Thailand's main export products and a domestic investment boom.
This was accompanied by rapid domestic inflation, which led the Government
to curtail sharply the public investment program in 1974 and 1975.. Price
stability has since been restored and private domestic investment remains
high at 17-18% of GDP. The economy expanded rapidly in 1978, and inflation
again threatens to become a serious problem.
8.        Thailand's terms of trade and agricultural export prospects are now
less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing severe restric-
tions on two of its major exports to the European Economic Commun-ity, cassava
and canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International
Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments position, which reflected surpluses
in 1973-74, has since been reversed and is now recording a large deficit. The
current account deficit reached $1,241 million, or 6% of GDP in 1978. The
Government has significantly increased its foreign borrowing from traditional
sources, from the Eurodollar market and from the IMF to finance these
deficits. Foreign exchange reserves have also been used extensively. To
contain the balance of payments deficit, the Government, in March 1978,
raised tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports and increased excise taxes on a
number of items, most notably gasoline. It raised the gasoline price again
in February 1979 and started an energy conservation program to try to contain
the oil import bill.
Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        Thailand is currently in the fourth year of its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1977-81). The first two Plans concentrated on providing
necessary economic infrastructure to facilitate and accommodate the rapid



-4-
growth that was taking place in the economy. The strategy proposed in the
Third Plan moved beyond the previous Plan to "alleviate problems related to
the widening income gap and inequitable distribution of social services."
However, actual budgetary allocations have not always reflected these priori-
ties, and there has not been a major shift in expenditure patterns. The
concentration of senior staff of the ministries in Bangkok and the high degree
of centralization of authority at the departmental level have been major
factors impeding reallocation of resources. There is little regional delega-
tion of authority, and the close cooperation within and among ministries
necessary to implement poverty-oriented development projects has been lacking.
These problems have been recognized and the Government is implementing a
number of long- and short-tertn ineasures to improve its development administra-
tion and expedite project execution, including a major reform in 1976 of the
civil service personnel planning and staffing procedures, establishment of
special project committees, and implementation of a revolving fund scheme to
speed up implementation of Bank-assisted projects. Further improvements in
development management is one of the principal objectives of the Bank's
policy dialogue with the Government.
10.       The Fourth Plan continues the shift in emphasis started Ln the Third
Plan. Its principal objectives are achieving 7% real growth, equitable dis-
tribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth, faster gener-
ation of employment opportunities and balanced regional development. Pro-
jected public sector development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the
Plan period, a 90% increase in real terms over the Third Plan. However, the
Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and con-
crete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social objectives
remain largely to be defined. The Bank and agencies of the Government are
undertaking a number of studies to help design policies and programs to
further focus and implement the Fourth Plan objectives. These studies are
focusing on problems of unemployment, income distribution, industrial
policy, and regional development. The Bank will be supporting a provincial
planning program, and the National Economic and Social Development Board
(NESDB) has just initiated a new village development program designed to
engage wider participation in the design and implementation of small-scale
projects, initially in the poorest villages. Japan has committed some $70
million to support the first two years of this program.
11.       In looking ahead towards the 1980s, it is clear that many of the
positive features which helped sustain a rapid rate of economic growth over
the past two decades will continue to contribute to future growth. These
`actors include a relatively equitable distribution of rural land, responsive-
ness of Thai farmers to improved technology, provision of infrastructure by
the Thai Government, and the dynamism of the private sector in both industry
and agriculture. Also major gains have been made in family planning La
recent years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from about 3%
during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977./l The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
/1 This is a further decline from the 2.9% average growth recorded for the
period 1970-76.



-5-
12.       However, some less favorable domestic factors are emerging.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the last decade, the labor force
is expected to grow at 3% over the next decade, necessitating a high
rate of job creation. Past growth has benefited households unevenly,
creating further income disparities that could threaten the social cohesion
of the country. At the same time, additional fertile land, which has
supported the growth of agricultural production and exports in the past, is
becoming increasingly scarce. In view of these factors, continued reliance
on the past pattern of development would lead to a deceleration of agricul-
tural and overall growth in the next decade, resulting in persistently large
balance of payments deficits, higher rates of unemployment or underemploy-
ment, and stagnating or declining real incomes of the poorer segments of the
population, especially in rural areas and among unskilled workers. Thus, a
shift in the development pattern is necessary not only for social, but also
for economic reasons.
13.       The key development issue in Thailand is how to shift the economy
from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under cultivation and
on import-substituting industries to one based on increasingly intensive use
of land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be necessary
to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparities reduced,
or at least not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the
Government's role has been confined largely to short-term economic
management, where its performance has been good, and to the provision of
basic economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated
policies and actions on a long-term basis.
14.       Agriculture will continue to be a crucial sector since it directly
generates 30% of GDP, provides about 70% of total exports, employs 75% of the
labor force, and provides a livelihood for 80% of Thailand's population.
Future growth of the sector will have to be based on more intensive utiliza-
tion of cultivated areas, continued diversification of crops, improved crop-
ping patterns and farming practices, and the availability of agricultural
credit. All of these imply an increased government role in the rural sector.
As a matter of high priority, special programs will have to be employed to
accelerate income growth of those who have not benefitted from the recent
economic growth. These programs should aid the development of upland and
rainfed lowland areas through research, extension services and rural infra-
structure development.  In addition, wherever tLeoraically feasible, irrigation
development with the associated introduction of high-yielding varieties,
greater use of fertilizers and other commercial inputs should be continued.
The Bank's lending program is being reoriented to support these efforts.
15.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the burden of sustaining future growth
will have to shift progressively to the industrial sector. Industry, con-
struction and services will have to provide an increasing share of employment



-6-
for the growing labor force. Greater effort will be required to encourage
the location of industries outside Bangkok and to promote small-scale and
rural industries. While continued growth of manufactured exports is essen-
tial, the large domestic market also offers opportunities for a balanced
industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agricultural inputs
and processing of agricultural outputs for urban consumption and export. Our
policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distortions,
increase the availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to efficient
production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic private
sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating jobs.
Financing Requirements
16.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Govern-
ment domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (15.5% for 1974-78) is low com-
pared to other developing countries at similar levels of development due to
low tax rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compli-
ance. The Government has achieved a modest improvement in resource mobiliza-
tion through revision of the tax structure and improved collections. It is
currently exploring other forms of taxation, such as the value added tax.
Such changes would facilitate a reduction in export taxes on rice and other
commodities, which have inhibited agricultural growth.
17.       During the coming 5-10 years, the demand for external resources is
likely to increase as the cost of reducing the present resource deficit
through a reduction in public investment would be high in terms of growth and
employment opportunities forgone. Despite an average real growth of exports
in excess of 8% and a modest improvement in the terms of trade, large trade
and current account deficits are expected through the mid-1980s due to the
need for capital goods imports for industry and for modern inputs to raise
agricultural productivity. In the longer term, the exploitation of the
natural gas fields in the Gulf of Thailand, further development of
Thailand's lignite resources, the continued growth of manufactured exports
and the development of Thai industries could restore external equilibrium
and significantly reduce the current account deficits in the second half of
the 1980s. Although the levels of foreign borrowing needed to finance these
deficits are high in relation to Thailand's past experience, they are not
hLgh in relation to the current needs of the Thai economy or in comparison
with other countries at a similar stage of development. With a dynamic
private sector and a long history of conservative monetary and fiscal
policy, Thailand should be able to use the resources effectively and service
the external debt.
18.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the P.erelopment banks,
have been expanding their programs to meet a part of the rising requirements.



- 7 -
The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets, and
by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 million.
The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Commitee to coordinate
antl approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand
is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order
to keep track of total foreign debt. Thailand's external public borrowing
requirements to the end of the Fourth Plan period (1981) and the level of
concessionality were reviewed at the last Consultative Group meeting. It
was agreed that the aid requirements, although high, were consistent with
Thailand's development strategy and sustainable by the economy. The need
for continued substantial support on concessional terms was emphasized.
It therefore seems appropriate to include a limited amount of IDA credits in
the Bank Group's lending to Thailand. In addition, external agencies, includ-
ing the Bank Group,have in recent years increasingly concentrated project
lending to Thailand in the agricultural and social sectors that have high
social benefits but low foreign exchange savings. To achieve the higher level
of external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary in
selected projects,where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some
local currency expenditures.
19.       It is likely that by 1985, net disbursements will more than double
in current terms for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private
borrowing, although in real terms the growth would be much less. Even with
this increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (4.1% in
1978) should remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter.
The debt service ratio on total civilian borrowing, public and private,
currently about 16%, should not exceed 20%. Given the diversification of
Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of manufactured exports,
these debt service requirements will be within Thailand's capacity and will
not endanger its cr-edit standing. It should be noted, however, that these
projections assume a significant level of concessional assistance from other
donors, particularly Japan, in view of that country's explicit intention to
expand its foreign aid program.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TTAILAND
20.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1979 had received 51 loans amounting to ahout
$1,411 million, net of cancellations.  The sectoral distrihution of these
loans has been as follows: $311.5 million for transportation; $236.4 million
for irrigation; $391.7 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $65.8 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153.0 million for telecommunications; $144.2 million for agricultural and
rural development; $79.6 million for urban development; $52.3 million for
education; and $42.5 million for industry. Thailand has also received six
IDA credits: two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of
$25.0 million for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for
irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population
project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out
satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex TI contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of September 30, 1079.
21.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Covernment's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly.  Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Croup lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population.  The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for ahout 159 of
lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside
the central flood plain (rubber replanting; livestock, agricultural exten-
sion, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which prior to
FY75 were limited to three in education, accounting for 6% of the program,
have both diversified and grown. In recent years education, population and
low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the program.
22.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Peport verify the
appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, and underscore the need to
move even further in designing programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been largely bypassed hy
recent economic growth.  In the agricultural sector, therefore, the Pank is
redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will help to lift the
rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of education,
agricultural research and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is
foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far of a viable
package for the poorest and most remote farmers. Expansion and improvement
of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on reaching



-9-
those farmers with irrigatLon potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification,, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus.  A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report
is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic actiLvity
outside of Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrtal
lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the
attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the agricultural
economy of those regions. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at
strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban population
and the development of low-cost, replicable programs to meet the demands of
the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce
resources from other high-priority development needs.
23.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of ils program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward project
preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to play
a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infra-
structure development are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining
funds in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy
changes, mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in
rural areas. The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector
through its economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order
to help promote industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and
dispersed activities to complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
24.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$459.3 million, as of December 31, 1978, representing about 26% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (8.1% of GDP in 1978). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to iacrease over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below 30%
of total public external debt by 1982 as Thailand diversifies its borrowing
program. The Bank Group's share in total debt outstanding would fall below
20%, and its share of total debt service would not exceed 10%.
25.       As of September 30, 1979, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$83 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of Financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sponge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector;
and projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to continue
to help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in financial
institutions and money market developments.



- 10 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND
THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
26.       Thailand's agricultural sector, contributing 30% of GDP, grew at an
annual rate of 5% between 1960 and 1977. The sector generates some 70%
of the country's export earnings, and employs 75% of its labor force, with
employment growing annually at 1.4%. Increases in the value of production
have largely resulted from diversification into upland crops, including maize,
sugarcane, cassava, tobacco and rubber, the rapid production increase of which
has offset the decline in cotton, coconut and other minor crops. Crop diver-
sification has been mainly the result of additional land being brought under
cultivation rather than crop substitution. Land planted to rice accounted
for 85% of the total area in the North, 60% in the Central Region, and 76% in
the Northeast where kenaf and cassava accounted for only about 15% of the
total area planted, despite their rapid expansion.
27.        Growth in agriculture has been the result of an active and flexible
farming community, which has responded to favorable world market opportunities,
and an effective and highly competitive marketing system. The public sector's
contribution to agricultural development has been mainly in the provision of
physical infrastructure, especially roads and irrigation facilities and crop
research, with particular emphasis on rice breeding. Nearly 60% of the public
investment in agriculture, which has fluctuated between 7% and 10% of total
Government expenditures, has been in irrigation development. Expansion of
irrigation facilities has been a major factor in maintaining Thailand's
comparative advantage in rice production, particularly through the construc-
tion of storage dams and major irrigation projects in the Chao Phya Basin.
Road construction has provided access to new lands and has been the main
stimulus for diversification into uplan(I crop,,.
The potential for expanding the cultivable area, a major factor in
the past growth of agriculture, has now been almost fully exploited and
further growth must depend on more intensive use of existing farmland and
higher yields. The area in agricultural use at present is about 20 million
ha, of which approximately 14 million ha is cropped annually.
Irrigated Agriculture
29.       Most of the irrigable areas in Tnailand are in the flood plains of
the major rivers, where a combination of heavy rainfall and flooding precludes
the cultivation of crops other than paddy in the wet season. Since virtually
all land suitable for rice is now cultivated in the wet season, any major
gains in rice production will have to come from higher yields in both rainfed
and irrigated areas, and increases in the area cropped in the dry season.
Year-round irrigation for intensive double cropping is dependent on si:orage
dams to conserve wet-season runoff.
30.       Until the 1960s, irrigation development in Thailand was concentrated
Li the area of greatest potential and highest level of economic develop(> ini:,
the Chao Phya Basin, covering large areas in the North and Central regions.



- 11 -
Major developments outside the Basin in the last 15 years include: thie
iliLtial stages of a project to develop the Meklong Basin (second in size to
the Chao Phya Basin), the construction of six large dams on the principal
rivers of the Northeast region, numerous medium-scale schemes in the South and
a start on development of the Pattani Basin.
31.       The first large-scale water control projects were begun in the
southern part of the Chao Phya Plain in the 1890s as private enterprises. In
1904, the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) was formed as the agency in charge
of water resource management throughout Thailand. RID is responsible for all
irrigation in Thailand except for the People's Irrigation Projects in the
North managed by farmers' groups. RID's first major undertaking was the
completion of a network of navigation/drainage canals over 500,000 ha in the
southern Chao Phya Plain designed to spread the seasonal floods more evenly
over the Plain and to provide access to large tracts of uncultivated land.
RID later turned its attention to the construction of a gravity irrigation
system of 600,000 ha in the Northern Chao Phya Plain where drought is a
greater constraint to rice production than floods. A key element in this
system, the Chainat Diversion Dam together with a number of major canals, was
financed by the Bank in 1950 (Ln. 36-TH). This was the Bank's first loan to
Thailand for irrigation development.
32.       Since 1950, the Bank has been closely involved in the development of
the Chao Phya Basin's land and water resources, financing projects; which have
helped control wet-season flows, increased water availability for dry-season
irrigation, and provided major sources of hydroelectric power. In the 1960s,
it became apparent that higher standards of water control within t:he irrLgai-ed
areas were needed to exploit fully the Basin's irrigation potential. The
extensive mode of development followed by RID had been successful in providing
vast areas with reasonable security against flood and drought risks for a
low-yielding, wet-season paddy crop. The Bank-financed "Ditches and Dikes
Project" (Ln. 328-TH) in 1963, therefore, aimed to serve some 1.5 million ha
with a simple system of tertiary canals. As new high-yielding rice varieties
were introduced and rice prices began to rise, further improvements in water
control became economically feasible. The Chao Phya Irrigation ITrprovement
Project (Cr. 379-TH), financed by the Bank in 1973, pioneered on a large scale
(15,000 ha) an intensive mode of on-farm development comprising tertiary
canals, drains, farm roads and land leveling. A follow-up projecit for 60,000
ha (Ln. 1468-TH) was financed in 1976. Another major Bank projeciL in the
Basin, the Phitsanulok Project for which a loan (Ln. 1149-TH) was made in
1975, consists of a new system for 95,000 ha downstream of the Sirikit Dam;
this was the first Bank-financed project in the Northern Region.
33.       Nearly 1.3 million ha in the Chao Phya Basin benefit from water
control works in the wet season. About 450,000 ha are now irrigated in the
dry season, compared to less than 100,000 ha before the Sirikit Dam was
completed. There is no further scope for increasing dry-season flows to the
Chao Phya Plain since there are no additional large reservoir sites on the
tributaries. However, improved efficiency of water use in both seasons would



- 12 -
allow some increase in dry-season irrigation. There is also considerable
potential for raising wet-season paddy yields through higher standards of
on-farm development.
34.       The Meklong Basin, situated immediately to the west of the Chao
Phya Basin, covers an area of 27,700 sq km and has two main tributaries, the
Kwae Yai and Kwae Noi. Construction of the first stage of a project, which
would eventually serve nearly 120,000 ha of the 400,000 ha basin's irrigable
land, began in 1964 with Bank assistance (Ln. 394-TH). The extensive mode of
irrigation development used in the 1960s was adopted for the first stage
and in subsequent areas developed by RID. Construction of the Bank-financed
Ban Chao Nen multipurpose dam (Ln. 977-TH) began in 1974, and dry-season water
became available in 1978. Construction of a dam on the Kwae Yai, for which
the Government intends to seek Bank financing, is scheduled to begin in 1981.
The stage is now set for a considerable expansion of year-round irrigation in
the Meklong Basin which has by far the greatest potential for increased pro-
dluction of any of Thailand's river basins. To exploit this potential, on-farm
development will be stressed in conjunction with upgrading and extending the
main irrigation and drainage systems.
35.       The Northeast is poorly endowed with water resources; full control
of the region's rivers would irrigate less than 10% of the 3.5 million ha of
paddy land. The region is bordered by one of Asia's largest rivers, the
Mekong, which could irrigate several hundred thousand hectares if the Pa Mong
Dam were built, but this would involve resettling over 300,000 people
currently living in the reservoir area. In the 1960s, RID, with bilateral
assistance, undertook a major program of dam construction in the region. RID
is now engaged in a program to improve irrigation systems downstream of the
large dams, with loans from various sources, including the Bank (Cr. 461-TH
and Ln. 1630-TH). Completion of these works will bring year-round irrigation
to 160,000 ha, nearly half of the region's irrigation potential.
36.        In the South, existing developments are concentrated on the east
coast which has close to 90% of the region's 600,000 ha of rice land.  About
75,000 ha are served by numerous projects consisting of diversion dams and
canals. Some of these are still to be developed and the service area is
expected to increase to about 95,000 ha. The main purpose of these diversion
projects is to provide supplementary irrigation for the wet-season rice crop.
Dry season cropping is limited by the low flow of the rivers to about
10,000 ha, of which about one-half is paddy land. About 45,000 ha in the
low-lying coastal areas benefit from "conservation projects" which consist of
drainage systems and control works to prevent salt water intrusion. Three
large projects have been studied: two involve multipurpose developments of
the Pattani and Ta Pi-Phun Duang River Basins, and a third would use the
Songkhla Lake as a source of irrigation water. The total irrigation potential
of the three projects is close to 160,000 ha. The most advanced is the
Pattani project, which includes a dam and power plant on the Pattani River,
financed by a Bank loan in 1977 (Ln. 1485-TH).



- 13 -
37.       A notable feature of Bank-financed irrigation projects in recent
years has been the introduction of improvements Ln agricultural exl:ension,
such as the training-and-visit system, introduced in 1973 in the Chao Phya
Irrigation Project. In 1976, the Government requested Bank financLng for a
National Agricultural Extension Project (Ln. 1393-TH) which would cover 33
provinces. A loan (Ln. 1752-TH) for the Second National Agricultural
Extension Project, which will cover the remaining 39 provinces, was recently
signed. In 1976, Bank staff undertook a review of the irrigation subsector
at the request of the Government. Estimates of the required increase in paddy
production needed for Thailand to meet growing domestic demand and to maintain
its share of the world market indicated that production would have to increase
from 15.1 million tons of paddy in 1976 to 22.7 million tons in 1990. Assuming
a yield increase of 20% in rainfed paddy areas, irrigated paddy production
would have to more than double from 5.5 million tons to 12 million tons. The
review outlined a program to be carried out in the period 1977-90 to meet this
demand. The program comprises improvement of 710,000 ha, extension of 290,000
ha of existing irrigation systems, and new hm-rtgation projects covering
315,000 ha. Although the proposed program is reasonably well distributed
between the four major regions, irrigation by itself has limited scope for
redressing regional income inequalities since irrigation pr(jects must be
located in areas with suitable soils, topography, water supply and production
potential.
38.       As a follow-up to this rovLev, Bank staff has helped RID and other
government agencies identify in further detail individual projects to be
inLtiated in the period 1980-84 which would be suitable for external
financing. The proposed project is a direct outcome of this review, and
further stages in the expansion of the Pattani and lieklong systems for some
100,000 ha are part of RID's 1980-84 program. In the Northeast, the program
includes the Nam Mun project, consisting of two storage dams and new irriga-
tion systems For 22,000 ha. Projects in the North would include a dam on the
Yom River to irrigate nearly 70,000 ha and the Mae Kok project for some 20,000
ha. A nationwide medium-scale irrigation project would cover new schemes, as
well as rehabilitation schemes. A start would also be made on a number of
possible schemes in the Bang Pakong Basin to the east of the Chao Phya Basin.
Preparation of these as well as other projects is being financed under current
Bank loans for irrigation projects.
39.       The 1977-90 irrigation program presents a major challenge to RID's
project implementation capacities.  In the past, fragmentation of project
activities among various divisions and offices has caused serious coordination
problems in project implementation, since no single individual or division has
been responsible for ensuring that a project achieves its primary objective of
timely and reliable delivery of water to the farmers' fields. Progress has
been made in overcomLng this problem in Bank-financed projects by the appoint-
ment of project managers with responsibilities for coordinating the inputs
from several divisions. An Administration and Organization Study, an
important step towards assistinv RT) to strengthen its capacities to implement
and manage its expanding workload, was carried out by consultants financed
under the Phitsanulok Project (Ln. 1149-TH) and is under review by, RID.



- 14 -
40.       Since 1950, Bank assistance to Thailand's water resource develop-
ment has included financing for four multipurpose dams and nine irrigation
projects for a total of $446 million. Three of the loans for multipurpose
projects were made to the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand, and
ten loans have been made directly to the irrigation subsector. Project
Completion Reports were prepared for the Sirikit Dam (Loan 514-TH) and the
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement (Credit 379-TH) Projects. The former can
be considered a highly successful project in that it made a major contri-
bution to the rapid expansion of dry-season cropping in the Chao Phya Basin
6tnrd was a timely addition to the country's power sector. The Chao Phya
Project was also successfully completed and has provided valuable experience
to the Government in implementing an intensive mode of on-farm development.
Implementation of current Bank projects is satisfactory, and good progress
i; wL,ag made in overcoming the procurement delays which affected some
earlier projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
41.       Both the Meklong and the Pattani Irrigation schemes were developed
from feasibility studies prepared by the Royal Irrigation Department (RID)
and its consultants. A feasibility study for the Neklong area, completed in
1968 with assistance from the United States Bureau of Reclamation and
financed by the Bank (Ln. 394-TH), formed the basis for the works con-
structed in the early 1970s. A further study to identify priority projects
in the basin was undertaken by ILACO (Netherlands) in 1975, and financed
under the Chao Phiya Irrigation Improvement Project (Cr. 379-TH). ILACO
also assisted RID in the preparation in 1978/79 of the Meklong component of
the proposed project. In 1969, RID with Svedrutp and Parcel International,
Inc. (SPI), prepared a feasibility study for a multipurpose project at
Pattani. The irrigation component was updated in 1977 by SPI in association
with Frederiksen, Kamine and Associates. A Bank preappraisal mission
visited Thailand in January 1979, and the project was appraised in April
1979. Negotiations were held from October 29 to November 1, 1979. The
Government delegation was led by H.E. Klos Visessurakarn, Thailand's
Ambassador to the United States, assisted by Mr. Sunthorn Ruanglek, Acting
nirector-General, RID.
Project Description
42.       The proposed project would directly benefit more than 30,000 farm
families, most of whom are presently dependent on a single crop of rainfed
rice. The project would provide for irnprovement and completion of
irrigation facilities and on-farm development on about 66,000 ha in the
Meklong area of western Thailand and 15,000 ha at Pattani in the southern



- 15 -
region. The project would take advantage of an assured water supp:Ly which
will become available from hydroelectric projects either under construction
or For which construction will begin shortly.  In addition, the project
would provide construction equipment, operation and maintenance equipment,
buildings, and consulting services to assist in the design and impLementation
of project works and detailed engineering for an additional 30,000 ha of the
Pattani irrigation development. Details of the project are provided in the
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Thailand - Irrigation Project XI"
(No. 2622-TH, dated November 26, 1979), which is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are given in Annex
III.
43.       The main features of the two project components would be:
Meklong
(a) improvement and enlargement of the existing 157 km of main canal
and completion of 33 km of a new main canal to serve 66,000 net ha;
(b) improvement and enlargement of the existing 206 km of lateral
canals and construction of 103 km of new lateral canals and service
roads;
(c)  completion of about 336 km of main and secondary (Icains; and
(d) construction of tertiary canals, drains and farm roads to serve
66,000 ha;
Pattani
(a) improvement of the existing 23 km of the right main canal and
construction of the remaining 25 km to serve 15,000 net ha;
(b) construction of about 134 km of laterals and service roads;
(c) construction of about 165 km of main and secondary drains; and
(d) construction of tertiary canals, drains and farm roads to serve
15,000 ha.
In addition, the project would provide construction equipment, operation
and maintenance equipment, buildings, and consultancy services to assist in
t'he desLgn and implementation of project works and detailed engineering for
the 30,000 ha remainder of the Pattani Stage 1 development.
Consultancy Services
44.       Consultants would be engaged to assist RID in the preparation of
designs and contract documents, in establishing operation and maintenance pro-
cedures, and in project monitoring and evaluation. The estimated consultant



- 16 -
input for Meklong is 150 man-months of expatriate staff and 500 man-months of
local engineers and technicians. For Pattani, the consultant input is esti-
mated at 100 man-months of expatriate staff and 350 man-months of local engi-
neers and technicians. This includes provision for the de'sLgn of the
remaining 30,000 ha of the Pattani project area. The estimated cost for
expatriate consultants is $9,000 per maui-ionth, including international
travel. The consultants engaged by RID will be employed on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
45.       The project would be implemented over a period of six years begin-
ning in the next dry season (December 1979-April 1980) with work on the main
and lateral canals in both project areas. RID intends to commence construc-
tion on the right bank canal at Meklong in early 1980. In order to keep to
this schedule, RID awarded the contract to a local firm in September 1979,
following competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.  The
construction of tertiary canals would start in the 1981 dry season and
thereafter would proceed in parallel with the construction of laterals and
drains. In Pattani, the on-farm facilities for 15,000 ha would be constructed
over four years, with completion in 1984. In Meklong, on-farm development on
66,000 ha would be constructed over five years, finishing in 1985.
Project Cost and Financing
46.       The total project cost is estimated at $186 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $80 million (43%). Construction costs are based on
quantity and unit price estimates prepared by RID and include about 10% for
taxes and duties. Unit prices are in line with recent bid prices for similar
work in Thailand updated to January 1980. Physical contingencies of 15% have
been added to all civil works costs. The estimated price contingencies over
the implementation period amount to 25% of the base cost plus physl:al contin-
gencies and assume the following annual rates of pr:(e inflation:  for civil
works 10% through 1981, 9% in 1982, 8% in 1983 and 7% thereafter, and for
equipment and services 7% through 1982 and 6% thereafter. The project's
foreign exchange cost would be met by the proposed Bank loan of $80 million.
Local expenditures, amounting to $106 million equivalent, woulld be met through
annual government budgetary allocations to RID. The loan would finance
retroactively an amount of $350,000 for expenditures incurred after
September 1, 1979 for the contract already awarded by RID for extension of the
right main canal at Meklong.
Procurement
47.       A major part of the project's civil works would be carried out by
contract in line with RID's current policy of reducing the share of its con-
struction program carr[;  wut by force account.  The works to be carried out



- 17 -
by contract include most of the new main and lateral canal construction and
about 75% of the on-farm development. The remaining 25% of on-farTn develop-
ment, and a major part of drainage construction and canal rehabilil:ation would
be executed by force account because of the need to coordiLnate the work
closely with the operation of existing facilities. The value of force
account works is estimated at $39 million (about 20% of total project cost).
48.       The value of civil works contracts (totaling about $102.5 million)
would range between $0.5 million and $7.0 million (including physical
contingencies and estimated price increases). Construction of main canals
and laterals would be packaged into contracts of not less than $5.0 million,
and these would be awarded following international competitive bidding. An
exception would be one contract already awarded by RID following local
competitive bidding under procedures acceptable to the Bank. The size and
phasing of contracts for drainage systems and on-farm development are
dictated largely by the rate at which detailed designs and contracts can be
prepared. Experience in Thailand has shown that contracts of this type and
size are of little interest to international contractors. Therefore, these
contracts would be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally,
and contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank would be followed.
Foreign firms would be eligible to bid; contracts would be advertised in
Thai and English in the local press, and documents would be in English.
Most vehicles and equipment ($15.8 million) would be procured following
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Vehicles and
equipment costing less than $20,000 each and limited to a total of $300,000,
which would not be practicable to procure under international tendering,
would be purchased through normal government procurement procedures (local
competitive bidding or competitive quotations) that ensure adequate
competition.
Disbursements
49.       Disbursements from the Bank loan will be made at the rate of 100%
of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported vehicles and equipment, 100%
of the ex-factory price for items manufactured locally, and 65% of the total
cost of items procured locally. For consultants' services, disbursements
would equal 100% of total expenditures. Disbursements for civil works
carried out by contract would be at 50% of total expenditures against
periodic contractors' progress payments. In the case of on-farm development
carried out by force account, disbursement would be at the rate of $270/ha
for Meklong and $140/ha for Pattani. These amounts represent 50% of the
estimated total expenditures for on-farm development, and disbursements
would be made against statements of work completed, the documentation for
which would be available for inspection by the Bank during project super-
vision. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30,
1986.



- 18 -
Cost Recovery
50.       Until the early 1970s, the Bank had accepted the rice premium, a
tax on rice exports, as an indirect form of cost recovery for irrigation
projects. By 1973, however, the Government decided that more direct cost-
recovery measures should be applied for intensive forms of agricultural
development undertaken at public expense.  The last five irrigation projects
financed by Bank loans and credits have placed more emphasis on tertiary, or
on-farm, development than in the past and led to clearly ident-Fi-alble
improvements in the productivity of individual holdings. For each of these
projects, the Government has undertaken to carry out studies to determine
the appropriate level of charges to recover the cost of operating and
maintaining the system and a reasonable portion of the investment cost.
51.       On the basis of cost-recovery studies carried out for the Chao
Phya I Project (Cr. 379-TH), the Government calculated that an annual fee of
B 690/ha collected over 11 years, would recover without interest, 90% of
the cost of tertiary development and 100% of the cost of land leveling.
Recognizing the inadvisability of imposing a different charge on farmers in
the Chao Phya II area, parts of which are immediately adjacent to the Chao
Phya I, the Government decided to keep the same annual fee for both projects.
They estimated that this fee, co.llected over 13 years in Chao Phya II would
recover, with 12% interest, 13% of the cost of tertiary canals and drains
and the full cost of land leveling, or about 50% of the total capital  os)ts
of tertiary development. The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives (BAAC) has agreed to serve as the collection agent for a fee of
2% of the funds collected and can commence activities as soon as cadastral
surveys establishing the exact size of each farmer's holding are completed.
In addition, a fee of B 55/rai ($17/ha) would be collected from the project
beneficiaries to recover the entire operation and maintenance (O&M) costs.
52.        The existing legislation which empowers the Government to collect
fees for irrigation is contained in the Land Consolidation Act and the
Irrigation Act. The Land Consolidation Act allows collection of iup to 90% of
the cost of common irrigation works, the full cost of land leveling, and a fee
for O&M in officially designated land consolidation areas, where holdings are
fragmented and construction of project works involves boundary realignment ;futl
land leveling. The Irrigation Act empowers the Government to collect a fee
for operation and maintenance of the system, hut collection has never been
enforced because of the irregularity and unreliability of most of the
irrigation systems constructed in the past.
53.       The Government is undertaking to strengthen its legislative author-
ity in regard to irrigation charges, particularly cost recovery, since the
Land Consolidation Act is only applicable to a small portion of irrigated land
in the central plain. Under the Second Northeast Irrigation Project (Ln.
1630-TH), the Government has agreed tLo submit legislation to the National



- 19 -
Assembly, by June 1980, that would allow recovery of investment costs from
beneficiaries of all irrigation projects, when and if direct recovery of
these costs is deemed reasonable and appropriate. Under the proposed project,
the Government has agreed that it will: (a) prepare and submit tc the Bank
for review and comment by June 30, 1981, proposals for the amount of O&M fee
to be levied on project beneficiaries and the mechanism by which such fees
would be collected; (b) impose and collect an O&M fee, under terms; and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, one year after completion of the tertiary
systems in blocks of 1,000 ha; (c) carry out a cost recovery study on the
basis of data collected for monitoring and evaluation purposes, and prepare
and submit to the Bank for review and comment, not later than Decetmber 31,
1984, proposals for charges to be levied on project beneficiaries; and (Q)
niere appropriate and not later than three years after completioa of tertiary
systems in blocks of about 3,000 ha, impose and collect charges sufficient to
recover a reasonable portion of the cost of the tertiary systems on terms and
under procedures satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
54.        There is general concensus in the Governmtent that farmers should,
at a minimum, bear the costs of operatLon and maintenance of irrigation
works benefitting their areas. However, the appropriate level of capital
costs to be recovered from the farmers, even when clearly associated swith
on-farm development, has yet to be determined by cost recovery studies to be
carried out in the project areas. Together with development cost information,
these studies will take into consideration such factors as local farm incomes,
incentives to farmers, size of farm holdings, and other taxes and charges
borne directly or indirectly by farmers. These studies may well show that,
in certain areas of greater poverty, it would be inappropriate to recover
any portion of the capital costs from the farmers and that irrigat:ion
improvements in these areas should be treated as a direct resource transfer
to these farmers. While these assessments will vary from one area of the
country to another, the results of earlier efforts at cost recovery, such as
in the Chao Phya I and II areas, slould provide additional guidance in
determining reasonable levels of charges to impose on project beneficiaries
in Meklong and Pattani.
Organization and Management
55.       RID in the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives wouLd be respon-
sible for project Lmplementation. RID is now organized in 22 functional
divisions and 12 regional offices. Three Deputy Directors GeneraL and two
Chief Engineers assist the Director General in the management of ithe
department. A project manager has been appointed for each component and will
be responsible for day-to-day management and coordination with the project
con;4ultants, the functional divisions and other government agencies (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Work in each of the project areas would be
under the supervision of Project Engineers.



- 20 -
Operation and Maintenance
56.       RID would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system down to the farm turnouts, the service roads and the main
and collector drainage system. Consultants will assist RID in developing
operation and maintenance procedures for the project. Operation and mainte-
nance of the systems below the farm turnout would be the responsibility of
the farmers, organized into water users' associations. The farmers in each
group would elect a group leader and a common irrigator who would be respon-
sible for operating the on-farm works and for ensuring that maintenance is
carried out. RID would coordinate the activities of its operation and main-
tenance staff with those of the field staff of the Department of Agricultural
Extension, working through the same farmers' group. Joint visits by operation
and maintenance persorviel and extension workers would be regularly scheduled
to advise farmers on irrigation and cropping schedules and operation and
maintenance of on-farm irrigation and drainage systems. The average annual
cost of operating and maintaining the facilities is estimated at $15 per ha.
The annual cost of operation and maintenance of the on-farm works is estimated
at $4 per ha.
Agricultural Supporting Services
57.       Agricultural supporting services will be provided to assist th1e
Farmers in both project areas to realize potential benefits. The Department
of Agricultural Extension (DAE) will be responsible for providing agricultural
advice to the farmers. The Pattani project area and part of the Meklong proj-
ect area are covered by the National Agricultural Extension Project
(Ln. 1393-TH), and by 1981, the balance of Meklong will come under the Second
National Agricultural Extension Project. Under these projects, the extension
services of DAE are being expanded and strengthened; one extension agent
will eventually be provided for every thousand farm families.  Both project
areas are adequately provided with information on the current technology of
rice cultivation from the rice experiment stations located adjacent to the
project areas, the main regional rice stations nearby, and a small experi-
meatal station operated by RID in Pattani. The rice experiment stations would
also provide foundation seed to selected seed growers under DAE's supervision.
At full development, the annual seed requirement would be about 855 tons in
Meklong and about 190 tons in Pattani.  Fertilizer use is expected 1tu i-rcrease
from about 4,400 tons per year at present to about 35,000 tons f*er year.
Commercial channels for distribution are well established in both project
areas, and private shopkeepers andl dealers would have no difficulty in meeting
increased demands.
58.       The use of institutional credit has increased in both project areas
recently and now accounts for about 30% of short-term production credit in
Meklong and 15% in Pattani.  With the levelopment of irrigation, the demand
for short-term credit is expected to increase from B 34 million at present to
about B 300 million at full development. The main source of this credit will
be the BAAC which has branch offices in all districts coPvered by the project.



- 21 -
An agrict0h.ural credit project, aimed at strengthening BAAC and the
cooperative system, has been prepared for Bank financing. The Government has
provided assurances that both DAE and BAAC will be adequately stafEed and
funded to meet the extension and credit requirements of project farmers
(Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
59.       RID would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the project's
costs and benefits.  The Irrigated Agronoiriy Branch of RID's O&M Division and
the Economics Branch of the Planning Division now collect crop statistics in
irrigation areas and conduct baseline agro-economic surveys.  Consultarlti
will assist RID in strengthening its internal monitoring capability (Section
3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Environmental Effects
60.       The project would have a beneficial effect on the environment by
providing a year-round water supply in an area presently dependent on uncer-
tain rainfall. There are no significant adverse effects associated with the
project. The project areas are already flooded for paddy cultivation for
about six months evecy year so that double-cropping would not greatly increase
the farmers' exposure to waterborne diseases or malaria. The canals would not
be used for drinking water since the villagers use wells and rainwater for
domestic use. Schistosomiasis is not present in the project area. A major
emphasis in Thailand's rice-breeding program is to produce disease- and
pest-resistant varieties; chemicals to control pests and diseases are used
sparingly by Thai farmers.
Benefits and Risks
61.       About 30,400 farm families will benefit from increased production
generated by the project. The average farm holding within the project is
1.8 ha at Pattani and 3.3 ha in Meklong. Most of the beneficiaries in Meklong
are rainfed rice farmers and in Pattani, rice/rubber cultivators. With thll
expansion of dry-season cropping in Meklong and its introduction in Pattani,
the project is expected to generate 5.2 million man-days of additional employ-
ment. The incremental annual production of 200,000 tons of millecd rice at
full development in 1990 would result in net annual foreign exchange earnings
of about $51 million (1980 constant prices). In the total project: area, about
45% of the farm families are presently living on incomes at or beneath the
absolute poverty level; this flgure would decrease to about 15% by 1980. In
Meklong, the present per capita farm incomes range from $130 for a 2.0 ha rice
farin to $335 for a 5.0 ha sugar farm. The incomes for the small fEarms are
below the estimated per capita absolute poverty level of $150 (19830 prices)
and are less than 25% of the estimated 1980 per capita GNP of $540 for
Thailand. Analysis of farm budgets and farm size distribution data indicates
that farm families with holdings smaller than 2.3 ha (about 24% of the Meklong



- 22 -
project families) generally have incomes below the absolute poverty level,
even when their livestock, labor and other off-farm earnings are incrluded.
With the project, the per capita incomes in 'Meklong would range frorm S345 to
$950, substantially above the absolute poverty level and representing 37-103%
of the 1990 projected per capita GNP (1980 prices) of $925. In Pattani, abouit
95% of the project farmers have incomes below tLhe absolute poverty level. The
present per capita farm incomes range from $40 for a 1.0 ha rice farm to $75
for a 4.0 ha rice/rubber holding.  These farm incomes are 25-50% of the 1980
absolute poverty level and represent 8-14% of the estimated 1980 per capita
GNP.  With the project, farm incomes are expected to [ncrease to $105-$315 per
capita. Thus, about half of the Pattani farm families would still have
incomes below the estfnlated absolute poverty level at full project
development.
62.        Farmers within the two project areas are expected to benefit roughly
in proportion to the area of land they cultivate in Am given year. The dis-
tribution of benefits could thus be more favorable than indicated by the size
distribution of farm holdings because: (a) farmers with relatively small farms
art, I il:y to rent land from farmers with large holdings; (b) cropping
Intensities are likely to be higher on small farms than on largo- farms; and
(c) there may be a trend towards subdivision of the larger holdings
(particularly those above 5 ha) among adult family members or through sale to
others, because of the demanding management requirements for intensive
year-round activities. The effect of these factors cannot be readily
measured, but a significant shift in benefits towards the small farmers can be
expected to produce a fairly even distribution of project benefits to
participating farmers.
63.        For the project as a whole, the cropped area is at present
90,500 ha of mostly rainfed rice with yields of about 1.4 tons/ha in Pattani
and 2.2 ton/ha in Meklong. At full development, the cropped area will
increase to 146,500 ha. Yields are expected to increase to about 4 ton/ha
in Meklong and about 3 ton/ha in Pattani. Incremental production of milled
rice would be about 2on,or0) tons annually. The economic rate of return for
the project as a whole is estimated to be 32%. Although this rate is high,
it is realistic for this type of project which provides (at a cost of
$1,735/ha and $4,620/family) an advanced stage oF land development which
will allow farmers to benefit from substantial past investments in water
control facilities. 7te rates of return are 23% for Pattani and 35% for
Meklong.
64.       There ar] no unusual risks associated with the project.  The risks
normally associated with irrigation projects have been acco(ltd-li  for in
estimating yields, cropping intensities, and rates of development. In
comparing the two components, lower yields are assumed for Pattani where
farmers have had less exposure to irrigated agriculture and modern inputs.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special features of the proposed project are listed
in Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 3, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-24 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
DISLUAMFAWEUc    GROUPS (A1MSn                          A
TOTAL            514.0                                                                Hx       mm   IG
AIXCLTURAL       179.6                  1                   3.0W?       U0nIUIC  7Cor1            2308
1960 L      1970AUUr?r A              U00 La   mm lt    amw  Gl
CI Pu CAPITA mWU6                     100.0       210.0     460.0            528.9      467.5       1097.7
DO5Cr C06aTms P   C4xUA
(XilnAGIA  Of COAL RqU7VALZT)       64.0        247.0     306.0            371.1      262.1       730.7
P0o1A210  Am  nT6L S#TSA     9-
POPULA?I'u  15131-   (MIlLIOU)       26.4        35.7      43.3
031hZ rpONfmA        (Pm(COT O T A16) 12.0       U3.0      14.0             27.4       24.6         49.0
1OII.612m  U T1   2000 (MILLO)                           69.0
1112OR3   1010LATX10    MLZS)                          105.0
TIM  11412046*1 IOIUATIO  Xs 36635                     3095
PO102.4A2M  OUS TT
r   sq.   .                       51.0          .0       64.0            134.6       45.3        44.6
PM   Q    .    C. CITCAL LAND    204.0        251.0     244.0            566.7      149.0       140.7
FO30ULAT103 AZ ST30CTOM  (POCIV)
0-14 YU.                          44.7         46.2      45.0            41.3        45.2        41.3
15-4 T3.                           52.          30.6      52.0            549         51.         55.3
63 TU. S AOU                        2.7          3.0       3.0              3.3        2.8         3.5
POPOLTUW 08033 am1 (?Z1)
TOL                                 2.6         3.0       2.6              2.4        2.7         2.4
03163                               5.1         3.6       3.5              4.3        4.3         4.5
CROD9 S2CI LUZ (IP  TIOSLID)        46.0        42.0      32.0             30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUD3 01A23  Mg (U TICSL)            17.0        12.0       6.0              3.3       11.7         9.2
aGS UP cCrOM                          ..          3.2       2.2              2.1        2.7         U2
vAsILY PLAmIuG
_CC2U33. AlL (MAI D)                ..  203.01   327.0
DBMS  CPlCl  Of IA W VO)    *-                 27.4      32.3            34.1        13.2        34.7
mx or u moPozzo
M  CAPUI  (1969-71-100)           64.0        100.0     110.0            106.2       99.6       104.4
Ms CAPITA SO192. Of
CALIERS (PrU     of
310181SS)                       96.0        103.0     107.0            104.1       94.7       105.0
11313 (tCU115   D AT)             43.5         52.2      50.0             57.4       54.3        64.4
OP WUMC! AND" AM PCIJ           6.4           ..      14.6             16.9       17.4        23.3
CULD (t1-4) NMTAII   UZ              15.0         9.0       6.0              4.8       11.4         .6
un  WEuCT Az am   (Ta6n)    S1.0                 57.0      61.0            61.1        54.7        60.2
151AmT KamrALmT RATE (PUE
TOSAND)                               ..         as.0      66.0            46.6        66.1        4.7
ACCESS TO SAn  WAER   CENT' OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      22.0             U.9        34.4        60.8
U3U3                                ..           ..      49.0            46.2        57.9        75.7
3.0L                                 ..          ..      12.0             12.6       21.2        40.0
ACCISS TO E1T4 DtU3r41 (PRCE
TOTAL                                ..        17.0      40.0             28.4       40.8        46.0
DURA                                 ..        65.0      58.0             65.0       71.3        46.0
IAL                                  ..         8.0      36.0             14.7       27.7        22.5
POrLATIOU PUr PERSICIU            78100.0      8420.0    8370.0          3790.5      6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION Ps IIU7    PEtC        4900.0       3340.0    1510.0          1107.4      1522.1      1195.4
POPULA4T105 P* HOSPTTAL SU
TOTAL                            1340.0/f     890.0     300.0           613.3       726.5       453.4
UAW                                 ..        280.0     240.0            203.6      272.7       233.1
RURAL                               ..       1380.0    1290.0           1110.3     1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PE  HOSPITAL UD             ..        31.0      33.0             23.9       27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVUAG! SIZE OF W0SUOLD
TOAL                                55.f_       5.8       5.5             5.2         5.4         3.3
MS"                                5. 3LL       5.9       5.5               ..        5.1         5.2
AURAL                               5.6LL       5.8       5.5               ..        5.5         5.4
AVIRAGI NUNIX Or P*USOS PU VA0"
TOTAL                               ..           ..       2.4               ..         .          1.9
tw                                   ...           .      2.2               ..         ,.         1.6
2UtL                                 ..          ..       2.4               ..         .          2.5
ACCESS T0 MLECTICITT (PERcET
O0 DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..      24.6               ..       23.1        50.0
uRA                                  ..        63. 0       ..               ..       45.1        71.7
AURAL                               ..         13.0        ..               ..        9.9        17.3



- 25 -                                        A 
P.~ r2 of 5
TUU,AI     --FOCIA   XICA2OaS DATA SI?
- nnsT ttC3f EST         -
T RDCZ            0GZA4 IC      UE         1*1m
1980 Lb     1970 LI ZITIN   Lb       MG,   /c  GSUI, ,        annc
P11DIUY:     TML                  83.0         81.0      83.0            97-.                   102.5
KAU                  84.0        85.0       86.0            98.7       o163        10 .6
1541.2               79.0        77.0       79.0            97.4       75.8         97.1
SgC tM;   tOTAL                   12.0         18.0      26.0            42.2        21.4        33.5
MKw                  15.0         21.0      29.0            4.7         33.0        38.4
notui                a9.0        15.0       22.0            40.9       15.5         30.7
VOCATIOL OL. (2 07 SUCMrT)    19.0                 24.0      13.0             12.5        9.s        11.5
P1DIMh                            34.0         35.0      30.0            32.5        34.1        35.8
SUCI3DIT                          20.0         16.0      21.0            25.a        23.4        22.9
AWLT LITELASY 2Tff (RUT)            u.o          79.0      8.0             P.1         54.0        64.0
oo3Uuwti0Us
AUFM Co' M P
POWLATIo                           2.0          5.0       4.4             8.1         9.3        13.5
RLADIO REChIVERS  U TROUA)
POPULATION                         6.0         78.0     131.0            86.4       74.9        122.7
rV RCIIRS FM TDUA1
POTLAT1l                           2.3          7.0      17.0            22.4        13.5        36.3
N?AIU  (MAILY  C1mAL
vfuT) C            ,U.ATI  m
TOSAJ POPUL*f0                       11.0        24.0        ..            24.2        18.3        40.0
CDI       UAL ATTIAAM   P   CAPITA   ..            ..       1.7             3.6         2.5         3.7
LA&O01 FORM
I0DLXEA       RCZCt (T W8AmD)    12757.0      16163.0   18514.0
FUiA  (PERCET)                    48.3        47.3       46.9            36.7       29.i         25.0
uAC5ICULTUU (PUAU?)               83.7         79.9      77.0            54.6       42.7         43.5
tSTKY (pUCUT)                      4.4         6.0         8.0           16.3       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATI0N RATE (PD.CUT)
TOTAL                               51.3        46.6       45.6            40.7        37.1        33.5
MALE                                 52.7        49.3      48.6            49.9        48.8        48.0
FEMALC                              49.8         43.9      42.t            31.0       20.4         14.8
ECONOMIC DRPNDEYC? RATIO                1.0         1.1       1.1             1.1         1.4         1.4
INCOIS OISTEDTIOII
PCENT OrP PiVAT  I2CM
RrC5IVED It
RICHEST 5 PERC OT O    UIOLDS   21.8/h        23.5/i   14O/i             14.9       15.2         20.8
BUEST 20 PERINT OF WUSBODS  50.97!h            49.77t   42.2#            46.8       48.2         52.1
LDIEST 20 M!CT  Of UWUSDLDS    6.27i            6.17    7.67;             6.2        6.3          3.9
)WIEsT  40 lUC? oP sOUsOLDs   I4.97E           15.9Is:   19.1           16.8       16.3         12.6
POVUTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTINTED ABSOLYEPOVUTY DuCOI
LEVEL (US$ PU CAPITA)
UN                                  ..          ..      126.0           193.1      241.3        270.0
*lORAL                              ..          ..       94.0           128.7      136.6        183.3
8ttIM  D RIATIVL PO0WT UNC0
LZVtL (US$ P1 CAPITA)
WAn"                                ..          ..      115.0           136.8      179.7        282.5
&VIAL                               ..           ..     108.0            96.8       103.7       248.9
ZSTIMATED POPULATION BSLl ASSOLUt.
POVUtTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UKAN                                ..          ..       15.0            32.0       24.8         20.5
RUtAL                               ..          ..       34.0            52.5       37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
PUTES
/a   The adjusted group avrages for each igLdicator are popula-ien-weighted geoeetric sans, excluding the extreme
values of the tndicator and the most populated cointry in each group. Coverage of countries amog the
indicators depends oa availability of dta and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yer between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 19
md 1971; and fee Most latent Eatiste. between 1974 and 1977.
Ic    East Asia & Pacific;  /d  tower liddle Income (5281-550 per Capita 1976);  /a  Intermdiate Middle
Licome (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1962;   a  Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area;   /h  1962-63;   /i  1968;  LI  Preliminary data for 1975/76. due to lack of data on national
basis, che emthodology for aggregating the available regional dats overotates incomes of 1.. income
groups and understatee inocee of higher Incom groups. Thua, this data is not suitable for any
analyticel Comparisons;   1k  Government   /1  1944-1965.
lost Ratent Estimant of GCP per capita is for 1978.
Au~U5t, 1979



- 26-                                                                                      ANNEX I
mwnriTio op awrA nibiu"uPage  3  of  5
Not..: Alonotgd, the d.t. n-  dr-r  frt 0-        *   eenl  JOApe  the nost s.ihotatstir   sd -Ilashia, It  b.14d alano  n tod that they aa  not be UWI*4e
tkan1ly o.nnbl' b-eto  of the Lto  of .taaderdlned daititiohs sd .-eseVt. aged bY  1 iffrtet  0                 rt?0*    La .0U.ctina  the 4tAt. The dat.s-c,       tea.
-,afi  to 4-erbe ord.rs of  "eitode, tedlate Ir.eda, sd  ehe                rtotos   etin nojo   dlff.,eth betaeet, onoa:triat.
Th.4pl   ps9             e. Cor en, indi.ator  -r  ppiIt.1.to-e&t.d genet,io  .men., .0000815  the eatr                  1-t6 or the 1-ad.o -n  -d0 the  w.o pepeltad
InoIjiky      hjrej   h S     to 1.k of dsIa, go,s  .0 . of e11 hedloatnes fo  Capital SosI.4 O1l MR-tart. an  of todieAtee of A..."t to Itth Ia  mret.
btp -a..   osi, 1-e  DtotOihtion nd Foeset  for other  -o.ty C-.  -n' poyalat1on.totKts  geroaarlr aaanot adtb-A  -1--a If the Ostee. en-. nod
the noot pojslItod .oatsy       in  h  o             fosti.             the I.iodotors Rmg  no  =r          dty If d.t  ma Is wot infhtte   Ootln t            be teselhe
Ielao   t      2t0Ite  gMM127 And roferame AM"~.
tor  AMA Itbootd .q.ha..                                                                  Alon., to   rt    .oa(oento                   lti )-tos.eb.                   eol-
sw    -  on  oas n-en r.ri.ig load tee  td taland netr.'                                   0011ba  of peopE 01, V       'n,sdrsl   om    yneeeUitln
AFT-Ito.r.1    MaWt Iooet .otlant, of eginubtral -aae..ted tawreotip                       pnoetae.  of their roqpoti.. poVeLtatio.. 1--rt. dispasl                1.1m
o- Peennetto for  o-oPs, ptre, ke t nod kibtth     gars-anort                           the enl-inebe   -d Olpe i, th or nithet t'oert,t of I                    oeret
Lie tflon                                                                               nod narte-ete- by sata-tome ogtIm  or the t5  of pit Pei'kes am  0.081..
(19:0                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iste.1latioa..
GNP p.r -pite estimate et oo.et  aAhet prices                                             A  - PaIIalatioa diidod by  .0r. of p-n,tioiag pfto.e.ap
on-,aioa -tehd -n No-140 -  AtIas (1976-78=~n..);    ~                       IZ LI1i       irJ i eoniaui-eiyeel
196o, 1970  sod 0970 dnt..                                                              pn.oneeee ie..L  boo- np1t  se dirldI.-I.nts.o   eotot   o
C          P         i 9 R0'CA EPICAITA - Asoal --apoetino of orei.l --a                fWl   .h..-                practionI n....  no-d a.si.tawt e.5
o    s.d 1 it.  poie nan,naturelget no  `yd"-o-  out. sod gee-              PO'OsAtion 1Ir Ae.ital Bad -htot.. teb"". ted ross-  - Fopelaio  (tot.l,  fnehn
tbo..-  e1ctrtoiity) Lo hiils.te   of .oal eqoie.lot per ..i     1960,                    so   -sel   iie   yterr.ste  e                   .r  bof  apitt1 beds 4-oiible La
190  .n  1976 dot..                                                                       jeblit  ted pri-t. gera  nod ep-o ebbed bootvit.L nod e.1a"lit.tioa  aters..
ieoepit.1.  -r  .otehlinbnt. p.reotlj .t.efd by at least no  poiJ,I".
POPUIiATION AIND VrIAL STATISTICS                                                           9stablik.eovt. providIng prlonipelly ootodin.1  e-n n.*e wt loelosid. hoeel
Totlps,9.  nd7aflio                      -A. of July 1; 1960. 197, nod                    hepitalt, hoae..r, tenooe  eath aad nodioni Oot-r Co  pnwtby etffsd
1977 dat..                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~by I pkW.Iiott  (tat by I teinol ..itat,  -o.., nid.tfo  tdo.) *Lbb of fo
dri  onlto  tperoet of total)   Ratio of ,-bs  to total popuation;                       i.-p.tiet  =oOm tiotbo    md prooide e lialt.d meg. of adical feolliti...
1.fo.i  ei-ton, of urbee e--n II, of f.t .e.n-bility of 000.ft.I 9~9p~gfiff9 -it"  e  - Total -nnor of naniettoa  to or disohere. froa
tengZMutroc.; 1960,1970, nod 1975 dttn.                                                                   by ti~l918 th.  .er of beda.
Pooo  .  rjetioat
7eplto~..s200  - Cua-,st popsotion projeotioo  -.  bt.od on                 I0AJt
111ftotal 1YPIttoO by tge ad too end their notality tod fe tiyll                                                                                           40&eSo   fHoeod brotprioadid     oa.ubt  e   YIOnal-
r:tt...  roetto  pee-tee-er. fo  -notIlty ret.. cereof the                            AItIseod  10f.0o             topo  idedo.soOa   iva    ,otr   n
leel. nosoelog life enpeotsny nt hieth boorenlg otto .-otry,.                        their noOn  .a.l.  A ho-d., or lodnr   oar  Wq not be teldod I. th.
peroait  too.   le -e,sd fetele life e-petooo  ttshili,iog at                         hon.oehld for stati.ttt-o    prpon"..
7-7.5 Vea..  The pa.tr.e  for fertility  -eoc 010  here three I-1el                 A-ergeou;,       f                                                   Altn   on-ttl.09.ndrrl - .,erg  ,ohar
noetig deiter it fertility  -ondiag to bo-n  leve  asi p.0t                          o   etsapernIa               ob,tdcs-lOcpi  oeetioe..l doelliog.,
'teJ 1~ .Ieoto p.r fo-e.oe  Soob odotry it then noigned on  of the..                  reopeetirey.  aIlelimag  eolod.  --opat,%aint etrots-    aod uoooopid pa5to.
Itne obtootio    of eor-tlity oni f-rtility trod. for proJeotto                      ot,t    iornbi.roto   nslne     oal  re.sd..1                                   Cn
stntio.oy coOtdtioO    10 C Sttioons7 pogOnltio  ther . 1.0 groeth                      totl,  s-bet, ted  a-cl d-Uing   reepttirly.
cO.the birth rote1 in  tul to itho denth -nte, od alno the  S.g
,teouo    ri- t o.t-ot. Thn10 I oiered only after f-trlity eaten           Ei.D?TIO
drie t the rvpnooet lori  f-uit not rep-Odtton ret., oho                    -M-dM.                      .
c.b g-roereocc  of oo  r-yL-   iterlf e..0tly.  The stationery ;pop-                  Prm~o~0~7oetd tfrnle - dret total, nole nd fenole enroll
buni, s.c r 01eoetdo  tehaso  h    rjetdoe-,eitin                                       eo   f.1oe     Ut t   priawry Laval top-rentoge  of r-prtire p.las-y
fthisontioo I0 the Y-o  2000  sod the  nte of dcline of fertility                -ohoo-ga, pnL.toe.;   -1tei-  ee4              obiLden  ei   6-11 pnehs
rate tc erice     -t ee.                                                                tdjint.d for differeet leegths of Vritery tAsotbno  for totriv   cu
0.. eaOes 00001l.000 it ro hd - The Yea-  uhen etatio ry pojolotion                        dtvre   anation enrlaamt             to-ti 1W p.-ent .ie-   oa  pupils
.i_  e   omrnhd                                                                         ace hol.  or ho.- the offlint 0001   aOI ..
PPorotleti  I.oty                                                                         Seoo=s  001-tota.1  ela ted tri.a   - fwtd  no tho.  oonn-
- d IOt-pn  poointion per noon-. kilter (100 hoottar.) of                   adoto  rqie   t ~i.t tr' y.a of  _e.d  petosry in-treotion;
total are                                                                               P-orden geteral  -.otioaaa, or ttnoher ta-edaMite ht,trutono  r.e ppinlt
orno -tricti-.ort led- Coqet.d -e. Cor  for egetoolto-al 100d                      t-1aY of 12 to 17 yo-o of see;  -nereqodreooss.  r  gert
Ponaio   t  trost::ore (peroe)t  Childre  (i-ih yea,e), serking-teYntoOloriot  esetofead.)                                                .iol tn.tit.ti... incIude
Pexenlotkuo   1960. 1970, nod 1977 dote.                                                  d.p.staaIot. If .-oondary 1ethittnoa..
ftnoIntin G.0-th Rate (perce)-  total - doA-o  eronth retes of total eid-                 ft.p!= Mohe retbo-pIr.ndseode       oa   tont   nold0
Vo.,iInolti... for 1950-hb, 1970-70, nod 1My7-i7.                                       rel7so   nnonyjeoaAtts   byOaa r  of t-b-Or  Io the Corr-
Ponoltlo 0t     h R.te,.eoet- 009.  - 80--.1 g.0th -t.lo  of -bhs                            tondie le-eni.
pplto,fr1950  *0 196070-, n-d 1970-75.                                          Adult it-eren  ro,*te(ffero ) - Litrtlo  Iadt. (.hlo to red nod oito) 
Cr.d. Birth Ott. (per thoennd) - Anoosal lire bieth  p.r thoosnd of taid-                    nper"enadeoftotlent pop,latte twed 15 peer  .08oe
iAi 96 .iibio1960,170 , nod 1977 dat..
rude DIIoth  R.tej  ~(p,th__d) .A-daol donth  per thoocood of eid-yes-               C=WII
poon;nd0l                Iii17    oo.Psnp   oeI.:                                                         .taoo   o.eio)-Psegror P.trisntoronr..
I.0  erdoto  oe-O feoe05c  of1 doo1goters n    -t i10t   bes-                             etIglsthnohtpro;eond.                          usn       hoorao. nd Iatltery
eprif c frtlit. rte; . o,oaly fir--ye.  -irtget endiIg in 1960,                 R080 poeRerto,  B=e toeotd           Uholatl ) - ALl type. of roocrer  for r-dio
1970,. nod 1975.                                                                        hr.e..t   eerlpht   e  tt. ad  f PojPAltioa;  ..olde c.a.  ltctond.
foltly Pisoolo  - doorpt-a  soon (ihoutnd:,)- 0001 noeher of                               eernIn, oC.netri-e nod t  yess  .e reetetratioa of radio .t.t ens it
Ace-toe  o  birth -corol  ete   ne   oP Ice  o f ontlonl fOely                         effet; detn for reoet Yeso           noy   t he ooeprbhle tie., -t cont,ie.
pleio-   ororne "tholi.hed Inig
Faadly Pl-inog - dU-. (perort ofns-it oe)-  e-ortagr of stoied                          TViecre  t. iosa  onit.on   - TV  -eeter  for b-on-as  to Lo-nerI
or    f child-beC-i0  t,e (15.i per)4    b       bo irth-ooeito1 deoe .li ei-oeo    opoei.  enlde a -nlInentd TV enoitrer  ieo. tir
toal sr     -no   10  t.-  age grOp.                                              nod in Ye-s  whe  refietrotie of TV tet  e-  in effet.
P101 oap 3070 PIION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      .       i
loroorCod 'rd,cooopr InoIt' 1d969-71I10) - lodr- of Ier -pit.                   -d rted proTi-ily to r-ordiag gte..ra o1  s.  It i. ooneidercd to he 'daily"
-oon  prodoctioc       l  food r_rdttiet. Frod-t.. loeoloeeed ned                       i   lepoetlatfu   ie       O
ford Cod  o. 00 -oitedec       b-tih .  Codities  -ore  peirarif itdbPP-oce Anooni A                      toour 7cr  tiaa no -e.k -Sodo  terae  o  ikt
(e.g cS   e   o   .  s   oldd.dg-ot psodctoeo  etch. coonyIftikt
Is 05-.  on ostiotni overg  producer prire veghe                                        000t,.
Pe Oola ooirofcaores(prrotof              e irats-Coepted froe                Ls5Si FOICE
roryeorlo   f net food noppliee -Coniol  to I-otrcy p,r I.Cyti            Totalin . Poo  toood)              - fonoic1Y notice Pertane, I-Oluding Cood
-e   s  ci .lohie Spplie  ooio      oantc   rOeti   ioe, iapots  oo I...et no  noetylpd htd  clciding ho-i-ste, etodrte, etc  Definitio..
r-os-te, nd ohog       II0N000.50  001t           coPli    -lode  oisnI frrd, e-de,   In  -,i_o  _ootrire  _.e 000 opt-.blt.
q-tioeA   In  ned In food prooctiog, nod lotee,i1c ditttboti-t  Requir-                                         1.yjf~n)-Penelbor Fone .. peroeCt"  of tctal Ithor foro..
.oOto  -ve  -stiot   by s-AO b-od on pbyeiooclord  foir torenl                      Pi-O M                    labor froro  in fneelg, fore..tty, btintg a_d
_tulitynd   .troi  Coe,id-rIrg e-or-oreta  teerC..t-r, hoty ocighto,                  fishing iP-9OWtg. of total lohor fo-e.
I 1ho 100  OttlOoiooo  P.P.oltijo, nod bIigoo   1i Orrc-t for                Industry orst  -Ib"hr force1 miineoig,  -ont-octio    tsftctooln  t-
htooCt-ohcll le-el,                                                               Olorty, onorno  gno os bro-tWg  ot to,nl labor trte-
_r-oylecply of proteI  (to-e  per dal)                - rt,   ot-ot ci per      Pttico0o pt  Dreo)-tta.sl,no    o                                itiiptiie  or
-nto  o  Op4  of food per dog. Jet e.ppl of food in deliiod noItIt   te    r   ~tdn  ttl   te   odftl   so  for.. - per-
COOOe-Icoeooto  or oi  oomtriee    t.baished by USDA yp-oide for n               -etwge  of total, ele nod festie popoltto- of 011 ages reretio_ly;
niclc  nionoeo  60 oraa  of toto  potei J~P.r day nod 20 grs-  of                     1960, 1970, nod 1975 dat..  Thet .e 110 eL  p,tjiopetjio  -nte  reflotirog
nonia Coo poise proteco, of hdich 10 Brse  ,hoold he notai protein.                   tg-se...  .tetot-r  of the ppoefltio, nod long tie- trend.  0 fee ettfttes
These  tnodoroorilloe  then th-, of 75 os-ne of total proteio nod                arc fro  notiona   ooot
2toth. s.  olo   .0c    . onredefo   O WZd                  roo,dbyfAo3$gf                              %t9pit, -  Ratio of p.3el.tLn noder 15 no  65 nod ovr to
o lhr Plc rd flOrid food lon-rey.ths- Ishor,I  f - I                                    .r-p of 15,64 yearn
fee(y4. J(ctin 0010 etnInII  nod pOIs   - Protelo nopply of food
Orcicri f    II toal  nd P""oe   "nYee   e   A..                                  IEOt DPTPnI7oI
111 aI     1 -0)IotIt  no(o  hotd      csoideteprIono                                   ooO        fPioeb             (bthtp in  --h tAd kind) - Reccirs  by elohest
1,ty  r-c  -.Yen.., to ohildceot  tIs  9 ago rop. for  -Le  d-1r-                    5 pocat,, riohimt      pecot   eret 20 peret, t-A pooret hO P_-Lte
oPIof footr- esOte doris-ed fran life tablen.                                           of hooitehoda.
0b,biTR                                                                                  200097 78801T Ipoify
Life. Ris-onc no Pin rQ      n-t  -_Average nonbs- of pen-  of life                     Ei-inted Abtolut- asees-O   I.-on  rel, -75  e o         it.) - ureetdb e-e 
rorllot00 hs-t; 190  170,  od  97?. dti.Ahotepcry oo.  leve  it thot (UnlSe$                                                            eoe  ke  aeeo
ahfst ICroliy at  Artoto) -..Ioa dOatho of infCott  -oder one                            nusIti-anly odecote diet plo.... eoti.1 Cot-fond rnooirnoeet. is aot
yet If 0g   e  tote  lOe  ith..                                                         Cff-cdCt1
oc ts totfe Ontvr(evn"       f oplto)-ot .ort.ndrr     -                             Eitiantd Rclotive Poe-"ta  -  r  ho-e (us$ er ogta) - o-han nod oa -
IIbr   ofPooie (toLTa  ibLs, nod  -ora)  10rooebesestoR-1n rejntive p-trty te.  lee  i h0-thirdofnre    eec it
Oneote    i-cl    oludes trntd  ,rfar  onter  or  0t-eted tot                  per.oal i-ot  of t00 c-oy. Ulrbe lerol is d.s-drd fran the rrllel
ooooeotd enter -.th so that fet  proteotcd borehole, epringe,                     0htjtan   o   ihtos   fln.i  soaea
nodsal-o  tome) no P-ncrtee- of the tr ...opeoti- poWiont-o J. 70                   itleated Pc ieio RDebt Ab.niot Pse-ty Icr-t "ore (ta-o-o                    - uran td
o bchn  toot t pulic f-tenols  or sttsdptt bo,.tedtb notare thtnm-n   Peroot of PopOltioo (rhno Cd r,oe  Ol(                                    arshc n .e s.Ite Poor-.
20 not-  fr-  n loose s-Y be toe.iderd -o boing  Jthio s-enonhbl
nocec   tItno -In  -,.1 are.. r-eoble a-ee  -.l1a Ospl,
OleCt ts-loheter-Ife or  -t-e of tblhe-oohold do .ot hnve to Op-d nfoal   o   011dn   Oto
lsoocieanpert cf tie day I0 frtoiag the feailt's later neede                                                     F000010 Antlyais nod Psoiotion  Rep_et_it
dosotO 1979



- 27 -                                                                            ANNEX I
Paae 4 of 5
ECONOMIC EVELCPMENt DAtA SHEET
Actual                           Projected                                GreetS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-   rate.  1I 965 hr
19NS        Iva'         1976        1977        1978 /         1979         1980        1985        1965-77      1977-79      1979-!8    1985-90        16 00?  r
A- uatLonal Accounts
(91 I I 1 71,   oSS  197i  pric-)
I.  Cross d- mestic  product            h,84.3.8   10,323.0   15,712.6   16,685.5         18,138.9    19,395.2   20,692.9   29,256.7                7.7          7.8          7.1          7.0         102.0
2-  t;aluas Iros tenn uf trade             -44.3        42.8      -507.7       -978.1       1,108.9      1,23E.4   -1,473.Q    -1,962.8                                                                 -3.2
3.  Cross d-osatic iocae                6.799.5    10,365.8    L1,204.9   15,707.4         17,030.0    19,156.9    29,219.9   27,293.9              7.2          7.5          7.17         7.0          96.8
4   imports                              1,659.9     2,989.8      3,699.1     4,460.9      4,896.9       5,08268      5440.4      7,507.8          9.6           6.7          6.            6.8         23.5
5.  Erport: - ,olamr                   -1,593.2   -2,274.Y   -3,908.4   -4350e.9    -5 157.9    -5 077.4              5512.1   -8, 044.3             .6.1 S.2                              8.7          24.2
5.  Iopurtc -uadjuated  Io.  TOT       -1,546.9   -2, 37.5   -3,100.7   -3,528.8    _4,048.3    -3.939.0   -4,079.2   -6,081.5                      7.1          4.3          0.1)         8.8          21.0
7.  Rsarce agp - adjustsd
fon TOT                             11D.0       671.9        398.4       932.1         847.9    -1,243.8   -1,401.3   -1,489.3                                                                    2.5
R.  Total conaI-  ptio-                  5,502.3    6,017.0   11 709.5   12,370.3          13,062.6     14,213.4   15,090.4   20,721.2              7.3          7.2          6. i         6.1          74.5
9.  Inorstasot                           2,606.2     3,030.6     3,993.9      4,269.2      4,825.3       5,191.2      5,530.9    8,062.0           8.5          10.2          S.o          7.5          24.8
N. NatlonA1 tAcISRO                      2,576.4    2,500.8      3,477.7      3,312.5       3,908.2      3,901.5    4,011.1    6,125.9              6.4          9.5          7.28         9.6          22.2
11. DomestIc taoltc udj-dstad
tor TOT                           1,497.2     2,358.7     3,495.5      3,337.1       3,967.4      3,943.4      4,129.5     6,572.7          6.9           8.7          F. 5         9.3          22.2
2.  00P at turret  tSS                  4,052.9      6,543.3    16,284.3   18,156.9    21,882.8    25,224.2    29,590.9    59,776.6               23.3          27.8         25.          23.4
0. Sector Output
tShere of GlP)
1.  AgtIcult-re                           0.391        0.346        D.301       0.281         0.271        0.264        0.258       0.229
2.  l,duetry                               0.208       0.227        0.269       0.288         0.299        0.304        0.309       0.335
3.  Serotoes                               0.401       0.427        0.430       0.431         0.430        0.432        0.432       0.437
C, Orstee 21975 - 1001
1.  Fport prtce I.dot                     46.43        49.04       91.65        89.35        96.55        121.65       125.04      171.60          5.6          12.7         7.1           5.1
2.  Import prits Index                     47.76       47.15      15.75       114.12        123.05       147.66       169.81      226.72           7.5          6.7          6.2          5.0
3.  Terse oI trade todeo                   97.22      202.88        86.67       78.30         78.50        75.61        73.64        75.60        -1.8           0.5          2.2          0.2
4.  GDP defl.t-r (US$)                     59.22       63.39       203.64      108.82        116.07       130.00       143.00      204.32           5.2          6.8          7.2          6.0
5.  Aot.al avotage  -he-aga rgte           20.001      20.80        20.40       20.40         20.39
D. Selected Icdicators                                    1965-77    _977-79       1979-85      1985-90
1.  ICOR                                                3.56         3.32        3.80          3.97
2.  Import elet cAty                                    1.09         0.87        0.95          0.97
I.  AVermgenatfpnal mavloge ease                        0.24         0.21        0.21          0.24
4.  OgrgaI nticsul            slo8mr te                 0.18         0.22        0.23          0.20
5.  tepoete/GOP                                         0.27         0.26        0.26          0.26
6.  tooemtmettt/ODP                                     0.27         0.26        0.27          0.28
7.  Re.ource 0ap/400                                    0.04         0.06        0.05          0.03
Valt   ddd /b                            Labor force /c                           V.A.  -er scrke-  /b /Sc
E. Ot.tot. Labor Force ad Prodaotivit,                               US 2975  0s$ Milliam  X                     Mlliton        I                         PII        2 of t-erpe
1.  Agrtcrutoro                                                    A.559         32.3                      13.4         75.7                             340           5
2.  Idduatry                                                        4,442        30.4                        1.4         7.9                           3,270       356.7
3.  Services                                                        5,588        38.3                       2.9         16.4                           1,930       235.4
Ootat/sVvraoe                                             14.589       200.0                      17.7        100.0                             820        100.0
F. Ptblk  Flrntoce (I of 0D0) (Ceotral  1oreoceextl          1965        1970         2974          1975        1976         1977        2 1978
I1.  Current rsoeeue                                    23.5         13.8        14.5          13.6        13.4         14.0         14.6
2.  Ten revenuei                                        22.3         12.5        23.5          12.0        12.2         12.9         23.8
3.  Torront expanpd nares                               10.5         12.6        10.7          12.1        13.0         22.8        13.2
4.  tadgatary eaVIlog                                    2.9          1.2         3.7           1.5         0.4          1.2          1.4
5.  Total poblot txoeat.et                               6.5          7.7         3.8           4.9         5.3          5.4          5.3
G. Fuel Omeorte lCaeet 000  illuo...                         65.0       112.0        628.6        711.7        833.7       923.0    1,114.0
15 of total ixeorta  for1. mp75)                          8.3          8.0        18.4          20.0        21.1         19.7         19.1
lb  At ccrret market . roes.
/c Etnssaae.



ANNEX I
- 28 -                                                                         Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL A                DEISTANCE. DFBT AND CREDITGiRTiG INESS
(Cret 110$ millions)
Acttal                                                   Pri-ected
1973      1974      1975      1976      1977       1978,    1979          1980       1985       1990
Summary of Oslauce of Pay. ents
Exports (including  0FS)                                2,084.7  3,025.4  2,796.5  3,490.6  4,029.3   4,910.7   6,300.0   7,660.0  12,835.0  24,967.7
Imports (including NPS)                                 2,258.3  3,353.2  3,487.3  3,911.9  5,093.8   5,919.2   8,140.0   9,460.0  13,904.5  24,650.4
Resource balance                                          -173.6   -327.8   4609.8   -421.3 -1,064.4    -989.2  -1,840.0   1,880.0  -1,069.5               317.3
Net factor service Income                                  -20.8      -0.7       5.4    -41.6    -72.5    -154.5    -210.0    -300.0    -925.0  -1,412.5
Ne-  interest payrceont                                    7.0      36.0      69.0      26.1      -4.0      -69.4    -100.0    -210.0    -766.9  -1,170.7
Of siich on public H 4 LT leans                       -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    -44.3    -64.5    -101.8    -133.1    -174.5    -487.1    -882.0
Di-rctevsesut  boos                                      -28.0    -37.0    _684.0    -66.1    -68.5         -72.8      -75.5      -80.0    -192.5    -290.0
Workers remitt-ncun (net)                                  0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       22.9        24.5       34.4       48.2
Current transfers (not)                                    145.5    241.0       00.3      72.0      39.3       40.4        60.0       80.0      100.0      110.0
Balanr on currenrare- t  - t                               -48.9    -87.5   -605.3   -440.0 -1,097.6  -1,103.4  -1,990.0  -2.020.0  -1,894.5    -985.1
Private di-ect investment                                   67.0    135.6       85.5      79.1    106.1        50.0       60.0        75.0      276.3      407.0
Crants & grant-11ke flows                                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.2
Public 1i 4 LT lans
Di-borsesernt                                             69.0      95.9    149.2    241.7    362.6         739.5      900.0   1,010.8   1,960.4   2,697.6
A-orti-tifon                                            -28.9    -32.3    -38.7    -43.4    -87.8           -90.7    -164.1    -222.1        _620.1  -1,092.7
Nat dlnbnrne.mntn                                         39.2      63.5    110.5    198.3    274.8         648.8      735.9      788.7   1,340.3   1,604.9
Other n 8 LT 1lunu
Dieb-a-nentn                                             178.9    326.2    299.6    279.7    311.8          501.3      900.0   1,150.0   1,393.0         462.2
Amortiaatirn                                           -223.1   -197.2   -235.1   -245.9   -264.2    -467.2    -520.0    -600.0    -850.6  -1,167.0
Ner di4bura  .entr                                       -44.2    329.3       64.5      33.8      47.6       34.1      380.0       550.8      142.4    -705.6
Use of IMPesous                                               .         .         .       77.1       3.8      101.4      280.0      280.8       -30.8        0.0
06crt-Cern rapitsl transauttens                             42.0      55.5    327.5    136.2    256.2          84.0      120.0      250.0       180.1      252.6
Capital teansartiens  5El                                   37.9      96.3      77.2    -11.4    136.2    -371.9           0.0         0.0        O.O        0.0
Change in remerces (- - inoreane)                        -113.0   -392.7    140.1    -73.0    275.0           476.9      494.1       176.3    -414.8    -654.5
Net frelgn emthange reserves Lb
(end uf period)                                       1,306.0  1,599.0  1,406.0  1,444.0  1.135.8          659.9       166.0       10.0   2,634.5   5,320.9
Crar t an  Lo -Cum-iset-
Offici                                                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Tutal public M & LT leans                                   87.1    436.5    223.4    372.3    633.0   3,220.0
lORD                                                      35.0    142.0      95.0    158.0    137.8         256.0
IDA                                                       25.0       7.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       33.1
Oth-r multilateral                                         6.4      77.2      62.7      92.1      67 .0     394.7
Guvera ests                                               24.0    200.5       47.7      22.2    106.4       332.0
o0 fdlch c-ntrslly planned esnaui.es k                  0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Suppliers                                                 00        00        00        0.0       0.0         0.0
fluanriul inaritutions                                    16.7       9.7      18.0    300.0    341.9       423.7
Othbr M & LT I-ane  (nhere  vailable)                      178.9    415.9    392.5    360.2    348.9          531.8
tieanrandum Ctrms
Grant element uf total coitmlents (2)                    44.600   31.400   16.700   11.500   10.200    14.869
Average interest ()                                        0.044    0.057    0.076    0.081    0.080          0.072
A.vetaga mturity (yearn)                                 29.100   23.800   23.500   18.500   14.000    12.832
Ibedlm- sad taut-Tarn e   (Dalmb-rse,  usl)
Total debt outtanding  (D0D end of perindl              1,i84d)  903.9  1 0   3,345.6  [606.8  3,933.9   2,693.0
Ireludin  ondiubue-d                                    1,302.4  1 ,77.   2,009.5  2,454.5  3,345.9   4,594,3
Publin debt tervien                                        -54.9    -60.4    -73.2    -87.7   -152.3    -202.9
Interes.t                                                _-25.1    -281.1    -34.5       -44.3    -64.5      -300.:7
0thcr n 8 LT debt ervi-e                                 -255 8   -266.8   -334 5   _245 9   -338 3    -590 8
Tutal debt Seclue                                        -310.7   -327.2   -387.7   -333.6   -490.6    -796.7
Debt Burden 11)
Debt -sre. rtio                                             14.9      10.8      33.9       9.6    12.2         16.1
Debt  vervie rtie s   d                                     12        12 0      1362         5     3.9          37.6
Debt  -nrvu/0lP2.                                                      25        2.7       2.0      2.7         36
Pablic debt  .e.vi.e/Govern  ent revense                     4.3       2.5       3.5       3.7      4.4         6.3
Ter- (T)
Interest an  at-al D0D/trtal disbursements                   5.7       5.5       5.6       5.4       5.7        5.6
Total debt aarvice/sGver-ent revenue                        12.4      11.8      11.9      10.7      12.0       19.6
Eereednntv RBains far ii 6 LT Debt (2)
Gruss dimbarsements/lmparts (incIadieg NiS)                  1 .0     32.6      12.9      13.3      10.9       21.0
Net tr-sfer/impurta  (Isnitdinjg 78S)                       -2.8       2.8       1.8       4.0       2.0       10.2
Nat transfer/grms dIsbursements                            -25.3      22.5      13.6      36.0      18.4       48.7
Exposure (7)
IBRD dasbhrupdi   t/gbfnentss     total dise bu             34.8       8.0       9.1       8.3      12.0        9.3
28RD DODi/tta7. oD                                          24.22    30.8       20.0      18.6      37:9       20.2
Bnnk Grou p DOD/tetal DOD                                   24.2      20.9      20.4      19.2      38.9       21.3
IBRD debt narvi-/tutal dabt eryire                           8.0       8.5       8.3      1O.-       9.8        7.8
Bask Gro-p debt serviuc/total service                        8.0       8.5       8.3      10.9       9.8        7.8
Emtrna.l Debt (Ditbounnd only)                           Orsttadinm 32/33/78
(Cosrrent 02$ millions)                                  Aauognt       2
IBRD                                                       454.8      24.5
Ba,rb Cronp                                               459.3       25.8
Otbar  sitiltteral                                         257,5      14.5
Guvsrnmeuns                                                549.2      30.9
Of ohieb onntrally planned sounesies /c                    0.0       0.0
Sspplieru                                                    9.0       0.5
Pinanrial iostitntionr                                     502.1      28.2
Eunds                                                        0.0       0.0
Total poblic n 6 LT debt                                 1,777.1    3o0.0
Other N & LT debt                                          91339      51.4
Total public debt (inrlading wsdisbscsmd)               3,680.4    207.1
Tutal M 4 LT debt (isrlnding  sidisbarsed)              4,594.3    258.5
Lt Prel iminary.*
lb  Net foreign assets: US$ eqeoivalet uf Line 31.                                       am..
O-sb-r, 1979
A Includes GMEA oouncrinm, Peoples Republic of China, North Xorea, North Vib          t
Ld  In-Iding net dirrtt investment isgram.



- 29 -                                          AANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                                   Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                                    Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrowers                           Purpose      Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                     388.9      5.5        -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education       15.4        -      4.3
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom             37.0        -      1.6
870   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                      Highways        28.6        -     0.8
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -    19.5      3.5
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation         -      7.0      1.0
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          75.0         -    11.5
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                              Industry        11.7       -      0.2
1021  1974   Metropolitan Water Works Authority   Water               55.0        -     5.5
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    95.0          -    70.8
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rural Dev.    21.0(TW)   -        9.7
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Livestock        5.0(TW)   -      3.1
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rubber          50.0        -    37.1
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom             26.0        -     5.6
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education       31.0        -    22.2
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                              Industry       25.0        -    15.6
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture   28.0          -    22.8
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    55.0          -    41.2
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power          50.0        -    37.4
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                              Industry         4.8       -      3.9
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Population         -    33.1/a  33.0
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Transport.    110.0         -    84.5
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority         Rural Elect.  25.0          -    24.4
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Housing          8.6        -      7.8
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                              Natural Gas    4.9         -      1.3
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom             90.0        -    90.0
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    17.5          -    17.2
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Urban           16.0        -    14.2
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand                Railways        16.7        -    16.7
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                           Power lb       80.0        -    80.0



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
Loan or                                                                  Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number   Year       Borrowers                       Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
913       1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Education /c            -    35.0    35.0
929       1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Agriculture /c          -    25.0    25.0
1752     1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Extension /b   40.0           -    40.0
Total                                                         1,411.1   125.1   766.9
of which has been repaid                                      202.7
Total now outstanding                                         1,208.4   125.1
Amount sold /d                        68.6
of which has been repaid            40.0                       28.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,179.8   125.1
Total undisbursed                                               669.4    97.5
/a  Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/b  Signed but not yet effective.
/c  Declared effective on October 12, 1979.
_d  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1979)
Amoints ($ million)
Year       Company               Type of Business           Loan    Equil-y   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                0.30        -      0.30
1964/ Industrial                Development                    -    0.38       0.38
1970     Finance Corporation      Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975/                             Construction
1978/1979                         Materials                28.33    4.22      32.55
1977   Mutual Fund Company    1Ioney and Capital
Limited                  Market                      -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing               2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -      2.00
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers           4.85    0.25       5.10
1979   Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials          36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                            73.98    9.49       83.47
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          48.69    2.56      51.25
Net held by the Corporation                         25.29    6.93      32.22
Total undisbursed                                  38.85    0.25       39.10



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of September 30, 1979)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years
behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procure-
ment. The delays in civil works result from delays in contracting archi-
tectural consultants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts.
These delays also reflect ineffective management which has begun to improve
after the recent formation of a commission of senior officials to coordinate
project implementation. The specialist services program under the project
is nearly completed. Out of 26 experts, 21 have completed their assignment
and the remainder have been recruited. Recommendations of experts for
improvement of teaching, research and extension activities are considered
worthwhile and have been implemented by the university staff. All the
fellowships have been awarded; 94 recipients have completed their training.
Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by about 35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Good progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of
project components except at Songkla University where the attraction of
teaching at Bangkok universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
/I  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



ANNEX II
- 33 -                       Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1271  Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976: Effective Date: February 9, 1977: Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows approximately the
appraisal estimate. There have been no significant delays in civil works
or procurement of furniture and equipment. Of 146 fellowships 137 have been
awarded, and 119 completed. Staff training programs are on schedule but need
to be improved, as does supervision by the Ministry of Education of its non-
formal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
This development credit became effective on October 12, 1979. Good
progress has already been made: (i) the Central Procurement Unit has been
established; (ii) sites for all first phase institutions have been acquired,
and expected to be completed by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plants and
lists for most furniture and equipment have been prepared; (iv) consultants
for the Center for Educational Technology have been selected; and (v) poten-
tial technical assistance contractors have been identified.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan oif December
5, 1972; Effective Date:  Mlarch 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised t-ime schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and $35.4 million (96%) had been disbursed as of September 30, 1979.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed. After
a year's delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installat:ion of the
long distance transmission equipment is now progressing satisfactorily. The
project is expected to be completed by the end of December 1979, about three
years behind original schedule.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$20.4 million (82%) had been disbursed as of September 30, 1979. Local tele-
phone network expansion is a few months behind schedule. After a year's delay
in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of long distance
transmission equipment is progressing satisfactorily. The project is now
expected to be fully disbursed by September 1981, having been completed by the
end of December 1980, 11 months behind schedule.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to review of management decision on standardization of switch-
ing equipment and cables, action on procurement has been delayed by about 9-12
months. Bid documents for all project items are now expected to be issued by
the end of 1979. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone areas
and procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on implementation
of other project components is satisfactory.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is almost complete and 97% of the loan had been dis-
bursed as of September 30, 1979.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan was declared effective on August 22, 1979.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving
equipment. During the 1977/78 working season there was a marked improvement
in the pace of construction, especially on the tertiary canals. WIork on
rehabilitation of main canal systems has been satisfactory and will be
completed by the end of 1979.  The estimated project cost is $30.3 million,
compared with $12.5 million at appraisal. The increased cost is due to price
inflation being higher than foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new
tertiary canals over an area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed
at appraisal, and the adoption of higher standards for tertiary development
than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases



- 35 -
ANNEX [I
Page 7 of 13
in projected commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated
at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component
has been affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several
disciplinary groups.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:  April 25,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Consultant contract was signed in March 1979. Design by contract
is delayed but "force account" work is expected to begin in January 1980.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing )ate:
June 30, 1983
About one third of major civil works are behind schedule, but
project completion is still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on
the diversion dam and the first of three canal contracts is progressing
satisfactorily.  Work on a second canal contract started in April 1979.
RID expects to award the third canal contract in time to commence construc-
tion during the next dry season. About 5,000 ha of on-farm development will
be completed this year. Thus, by the end of the 1979 construction season
the total area provided with on-farm development will amount to L0,500 ha, or
11% of the project area. All studies financed under the project are proceed-
ing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 5,300 ha were completed in the 1978
construction season.  Project preparation for about 40,000 ha in the Stage II
area of iaeklong was recently completed. A project monitoring system is being
set up and the Chao Phya Project area is now served by the National Agri-
cultural Extension Project.



-36-                     ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on
two contracts for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have
delayed the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has
now been delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained.
The rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on
agricultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1981  *
The seed production and pasture development programs are progressing
reasonably well and the loaned-bull and artificial insemination programs,
hitherto hindered by the delay in importation of cattle, are improving.
Furthermore the number of permanent project staff has been increased from the
initially approved 121 to 223, and the New Zealand Government has agreed to
provide additional technical assistance for the remaining project period.
Disbursements are still considerably behind schedule but are expected to
increase with improvement in the preparation of procurement documents and the
importation of cattle. The Department of Livestock Development and the Bank
have completed a livestock sector review and recommendations are currently
being discussed with the Government.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing date: June
30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving. Replanting attained in 1978 was close to the revised target of
35,000 ha.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of Mlay 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 197;';
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Staffing is almost complete in 18 of the possible 25 provinces.
A few of the provinces incorporated under the project in 1979 lack about
70% of Extension Agents, but all efforts are being made to appoint: staff
to these provinces which are generally less attractively located. Although
staff training schedules are adhered to, the quality of training, particu-
larly that for subject matter specialists, can be further improved. The
effectiveness of the new provincial extension services is strongly related
to the quality of leadership and technical support. Strong efforts to
rectify shortcomings are now being made in the weaker provinces. Excellent
extension results have already been achieved, in particular through the
extensive use of small pumps for dry-season cropping by small farmer groups,
in rubber quality improvement and in improvements in home gardens., The civil
works program is about two years behind schedule, mainly because of high rates
inflation, low unit cost of ceilings for civil works set by the Budget Bureau,
and the relatively large size of the provincial civil works packages which
consisted of many small buildings scattered throughout the provinces. It is
expected that contracts for all remaining civil works under the project will
be awarded in Thai fiscal year 1980. The ceiling for unit prices has
increased by about 35%. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials is
on schedule. Disbursements are lagging through the delays in the civil works
program. Consultants continue to provide DAE with excellent assistance.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Mlillion
Loan of September 18, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan is not yet effective.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This development credit became effective on October 12, 1979.
Preparations for the first year of project implementation have been satis-
factory, particularly in view of the fact that the implementing agencies have
no prior experience with Bank-supported projects.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed.  Construction
of the dam embankment was completed on Hlay 14, 1978 and all other works are
being carried out satisfactorily. The installation of the turbinfe generating
units is expected to be completed on schedule. Project costs are likely to be



- 38 -                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
about 28% higher than appraisal estimates, due mainly to additional grouting
work required beneath the main embankment.  The progress on resettlement has
been satisfactory, and almost all of the 814 families affected have now been
moved into their new homes.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial
delay was caused by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer-than-
expected rock conditions at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels.
Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been
placed. Construction for the resettlement component is progressing according
to schedule. Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is in the early stages of implementation. There was
an initial delay of about four months in the preparation of bid documents
but procurement is now under way and should present no further problems.
Field construction crews have been working on pole setting and conductor
stringing since the middle of 1978, utilizing materials available in stock.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Original Effective Date: November 7, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan S-10       Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
All the project preparation activities ana preliminary engineering
have been completed. In July 1979, the Borrower, the National Gas Organiza-
tion of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand who
will be the Borrower for the proposed loan of $107 million for the Second Gas
Pipeline project expected to be approved in mid-December 1979.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date: June 30 1980
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision
of construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. Because of the
initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to be completed
by the end of 1979. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in Mœay
1972, NWWA's financial performance continues to be poor. The Government
approved IMWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased
operating costs were recently approved by Cabinet and are expected to be
made effective before the end of 1979.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Mlillion Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates. In order to minimize resistance to beneficiary charges, cost
recovery in improved slums will be introduced as physical works are
completed - starting in early 1980.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Mlillion Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Implementation of the project is generally ahead of schedule.
Signal equipment has been installed, some two years earlier than expected, as
a result of the consulting and procurement work done under contracts for which
the Bank provided retroactive financing.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Itillion Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastructure
has been progressing. Bunding, drainage, and three of the four deep wells
have been completed. Substantial progress is being achieved in road construc-
tion, sewerage, and water distribution, and work is expected to be completed
by end of 1979. Land sales have been very encouraging with nearly all of
available plots either firmly committed or being negotiated, and are well
ahead of appraisal estimates. These sales have been achieved at an average
sales price of B 300,000 per rai, as compared to projected sales price of
B 250,000 per rai in the appraisal. In order to accommodate substantial
demand for the Export Processing Zone, IEAT has enlarged this area to 30 ha.
The estate's full development is still expected by mid-1980.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13
Loan No. 992  Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project: $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: March 31. 1980
The full amount of the $12 Million Loan has been committed, of which
98% has been disbursed. The commitment was more rapid than originally esti-
mated. Disbursements have also been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when
the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327  Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1980
The loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of
the sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. The IFCT's capital struc-
ture and liquidity position have improved, however, with successful share
capital increases. Satisfactory progress has been mace on the institution-
building aspects of the project.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
RTG has, in accordance with the Credit Agreement: (a) established
and staffed the Project Coordinating Committee, which has met frequently;
(b) established and staffed the Project Administration and Financing Unit
(PAFU); (c) appointed a project director, deputy director and two assistant
project directors and a health planner/economist; and (d) initiated most
of the key project activities at the national level and in the 20 Accelerated
Family Planning and Health Provinces. Due to initial delays in staffing the
project administration and financing unit, a high turnover of staff in the
Construction and Design Division, and delays in securing Budget Bureau
approval for the supplementary budget for FY1978, key project activities
were held up initially and major elements of the project are about six months
behind schedule.  The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appro-
priate action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and
remove impediments to implementation.
Loan No. 1662  Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan was declared effective on August 22, 1979.



- 41-                       ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
This development credit became effective on October 12, 1979. Good
progress has already been made: (i) the Central Procurement Unit has been
established; (ii) sites for all first phase institutions have been acquired,
and expected to be completed by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans and
lists for most furniture and equipment have been prepared; (iv) consultants
for the Center for Educational Technology have been selected; and (v) poten-
tial technical assistance contractors have been identified.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 MIillion
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This development credit became effective on October 12, 1979.
Preparations for the first year of project implementation have been satis-
factory, particularly in view of the fact that the implementing agencies have
no prior experience with Bank-supported projects.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Original Effective Date: November 7, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The required power tariff increases have been announced and the loan
is sheduled to become effective on December 10, 1979.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan is yet to become effective. However, the Government has
given this project high priority and intends to accelerate project implementa-
tion.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
ELEVENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: One year
(b) Agency which prepared the project: The Royal Irrigation
Department with assistance from consultants
(c) First Bank mission to consider the Project: January 1, 1979.
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: April 16, 1979
(e) Completion of Negotiations: November 1, 1979
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness: March 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action: None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower has agreed to:
(a)  prepare and submit to the Bank for review and comment by
June 30, 1981 proposals for the amount of O&M fee to be levied on
project beneficiaries and the mechanism by which such
fees would be collected (para. 53);
(b) impose and collect an O&M fee, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, one year after , >vpletion of the
tertiary systems in blocks of 1,000 ha (para. 53);
(c) carry out a cost recovery study on the basis of data collected for
monitoring and evaluation purposes, and prepare a-i4 ;azb.iiit to the
Bank for review and comment, not later than December 31, 1984,
proposals for charges to be levied on project beneficiaries
(para. 53);
(d) where appropriate and not later than three years after completion
of tertiary systems in blocks of about 3,000 ha, impose and collect
charges sufficient to recover a reasonable portion of the cost of
the tertLary systems on terms and under procedures satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan greement) (para. 53);



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) appoint two project managers to be responsible for the Meklong and
Pattani components (para. 55); and
(f) ensure that DAE and BAAC are adequately staffedl and funded to meet
the extension and credit requirements of project farmers (para. 58).






GUiF OF THAILAND
;-*, ?14----', -4----4    RALWY
~~~ RIVERS~~~~~~~~IA
--                  =HANOWAT BART                                                                                                                    CHINI
THAILAND       B                                             D0 
IRRIGATION   PROJECT XS                                            B                                                                                      ALAOYPEOSA 
PATTANI IRRIGATION AREA                        \_< ' J--____o i . < < g n R0                                                                                          S DEM
PROPOSED MAI CANALS\                    \                                l<e;f<                                                    /                           > 
PROPOSED SECONDARY CANALS             \                                                                                              .. 1                     t         :
- - ---  -PROPOSED DRAINAGE CANALS                                                                                                                     TH   3      l< AILANDA
.0-       MAIN CANALS                  \               sY.>.)S)                                                                                              gDMCAI 
PRIMARY ROAD                                                                    \KL\\ A.P U."EA
+ +RAILWAYSS\...J   .-1)                                                                                                                                            /
-CIIANG AT BOUNDARIES-                                               \                                                                --  Xti
--INTERNATIONAL BOLJNDARIES \1  -fLo- . S..... 1.
0 2 4 6 8 10 tPitLde 1g i < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y A L A  - .*. -  ;w
KILOMETERS                                                   @       /Yl                                         ~<$A                               A    S A .,  






BRD 14432
7_    LA PEPLES  | \     TOSJPAU 18/  Io   TOSUPHANBUPU                                 JULY 1979
LAO PEOPLE'S100.
EA I DEMOCRATIC              \                           THO N               ,
I    REKAMPUC
.stX  . S /t ......... ... s t 0 ......... ) // T@\ 1 S.SOG PHI kOG
.'1,4",>./                                     'I
"1                                                                            OUP T"_"'"     "/1 
1.           _,                   /                .MPU                                                             -
t9 30'  9 L. o 
KAMPHCAENG SAEN I                                         14SA0
-1°           Drainae                 e OPOl51°o
LEFT MA,N
VAJerA LOf_ .S 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i OOOB,/s. of Or  4m o 9         \
<I hOEES                                                                                 00,Omrl 
_13030   THEAILANDD""                         , X   °   '<AMNOENSANK   t<                                           B       |
MEKLONG IRRIGATION AREA N | \-......                                                                                              HO
THAILAND                                                                  OENS concds  {  T
gEKON                                     DrepRIG T   con, ARE   WA
PrpseLateral c      anals-                                  _        y 
Primaory roods                                   ,                                    f-
Secondairy roads                                                    \ 
RadlwaysI                                                                            - 
-    R,Iers                                       KHAO YCO      +       >                    
International boundaries ;BALE 
r~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~If ft*&t A. f           s~Rll~
o        s        o 5 10                             >, t/\S                /4w 4 fbtowe                                       rdd
KI~~~~~~ ~ ~ LOMETEHAUP                                                                     =
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~J.. ,. tv
i8N P'ONG            \                              ;



