LOAN NUMBER 1787 TH
Loan Agreement
(Eleventh Irrigation Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated    /V                            1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1787 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   ./4t44  ^f     /W         , 1980, between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "RID" means the Royal Irrigation Department within
the !orrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives;
(b) "BAAC" means the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives established pursuant to the Borrower's Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives Act, B. E. 2509 (1966);
(c) "DAE" means the Department of Agricultural Extension
in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives;
and
(d) "Joint Project Agreement (Second Northeast Thailand
Irrigation Project)" means the agreement dated December 4, 1978,
between the Borrower, the Bank and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (with respect to the Loans 1630-TH and
5-THA).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-2-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty million dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through RID with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, engineering, economic and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-3-
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause RID to establish
promptly a Project Organization, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
responsible for the execution and operation of the Project, such
Organization to include inter alia the appointment of two senior
officers of RID in the following capacities:
(a) a Project Manager to be responsible for management
and coordination of Part A of the Project; and
(b) a Project Manager to be responsible for management
and coordination of Parts B and D (3) of the Project.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in (i) the
design of, the preparation of specifications and bidding documents
for, and the supervision of the construction of Parts A, B and C
of the Project, and (ii) the carrying out of Part D of the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall employ agricultural, engineering and
management consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory tc the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-.eeds of


﻿-4-
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 3.05 (b) (i) above, the Borrower shall, not later than
December 31, 1980, cause RID to submit to the Bank for review and
comment detailed proposals for monitoring and evaluation of
Bank-financed irrigation projects.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall at all times ensure that:
(a) DAE is adequately staffed and provided with resources
sufficient to enable it to provide an effective extension service
to beneficiaries under Parts A and B of the Project; and
(b) BAAC is adequately staffed and provided with resources
sufficient to meet the reasonable short-term and long-term credit
needs of beneficiaries under Parts A and B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,


﻿-5-
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower ,!all
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause RID to:
(a) maintain one account covering the expenditures incurred
in carrying out Part A of the Project and another separate account
covering expenditures incurred in carrying out Part B of the
Project; and


﻿-6-
(b) furnish to the Bank such information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of RID as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause RID to operate and
maintain all irrigation, service roads and drainage systems
required for the functioning of the facilities constructed under
the Project, in accordance with the procedures established under
Part D (2) of the Project, and shall make all necessary funds
available through appropriate annual budgetary allocations as may
be required for the above purposes.
Section 4.04. Subject to the provisions contained in the
legislative measures to be enacted and implemented pursuant
to Section 4.02 (a) of the Joint Project Agreement (Second North-
east Thailand Irrigation Project), the Borrower shall or shall
cause RID to:
(a) not later than June 30, 1981, prepare and submit to
the Bank, for its review and comment, proposals for the esta-
blishment of appropriate levels of fees to recover operation and
maintenance costs from beneficiaries under the Project, together
with appropriate procedures proposed to be implemented for the
collection of such fees;
(b) on the basis of the proposals referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section and of the Bank's concurrence thereto, impose
and collect fees equivalent to operation and maintenance costs
from beneficiaries under the Project within one year of the
completion of the tertiary systems in blocks of about 1,000
hectares, and under such other terms and conditions as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) carry cut in a timely manner and complete not later than
June 30, 1984, a capital cost recovery study which shall take into
account, inter alia, the incentives to farmers, the capacity of
farmers to pay, the size of farm holdings and other charges and
taxes paid by farmers;
(d) on the basis of the results of the study referred to
in paragraph (c) of this Section, not later than December 31,
1984, furnish to the Bank, for its review and comment, proposals
for the establishment of appropriate levels of charges designed to
recover the capital costs from beneficiaries under the Project,
together with the appropriate collection procedures therefor;
and


﻿-7-
(e) on the basis of the proposals referred to in paragraph
(d) of this Section and of the Bank's concurrence thereto, and
after completion of tertiary systems in blocks of about 3,000
hectares, impose and collect charges adequate to ensure the
recovery from said beneficiaries of a reasonable portion of such
capital costs on terms and under procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date     4/             /98 , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2
Thailand
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINANCE                             TH-2823
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By  A/s~   / /S        /     ef
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By     ''L
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent       to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 51,700,000          50%
(2) Vehicles and                15,100,000
equipment
(a) directly                                   100% of for-
imported                                  eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally                                    100%
manufactured                              (ex-factory)
(c) locally                                    65%
procured
(3) Consultants'                 6,500,000          100%
services and
training
(4) Unallocated                  6,700,000
TOTAL            80,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplIed from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of thij Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$350,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
September 1, 1979.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's continuing program for
improving and expanding its irrigation facilities. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Meklong Irrigation Works
Construction and/or improvement of main, lateral and
tertiary canals and drains (including adjacent farm
roads) for irrigation of an area of about 66,000 hec-
tares on the right bank of the Meklong River (Stage II)
downstream from the Vajiralongkorn Diversion Dam.
Part B:   Pattani Irrigation Works
Construction and/or improvement of main, lateral and
tertiary canals and drains for irrigation of an area of
about 15,000 hectares on the right bank of the Pattani
River served by the right bank main canal originating at
the Ban Kurat Diversion Dam.
Part C:   Operation and Maintenance
Construction and equipping of operation and maintenance
facilities for the irrigation works included under
the Project.
Part D:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Establishment of efficient procedures for monitor-
ing and evaluating the benefits of Bank-financed
irrigation projects.
2.   Establishment of efficient procedures for water
management and for the operation and maintenance of
the irrigation works under the Project to ensure
timely and adequate deliveries of irrigation
water.
3.   Preparation of detailed designs for a further
35,000 hectares to be irrigated from the Pattani
River.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1985
through   September 15, 1999               2,665,000
On March 15, 2000                               2,715,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.20%
More than three years but
not more than six years                      2.40%
before maturity
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.35%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                              6.35%
More than sixteen but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.15%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.95%


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereunder, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospec-
tive bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods
evaluated on a c.i.f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (appli-
cable to furnished domestic products) on goods evaluated on an
ex-factory basis, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Thailand may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Thailand if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Kingdom of Thailand
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 16 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions contained in Part A.1 of
this Schedule:
1.   Vehicles and equipment with unit prices not exceeding
the equivalent of about $20,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of
about $300,000 equivalent, may be purchased in accordance with the
procurement procedures of the Borrower, satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost not more
than $5,000,000 equivalent each may be procured following local
advertising in accordance with such of the Borrower's competitive
bidding procedures as shall be satisfactory to the Bank, including
those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule, provided however
that some civil works, as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, may be carried out through force account by RID.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more, and goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders;


﻿- 17 -
(b) after bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination;
(c) the terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited; and
(d) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 18 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
Provisions included in Borrower's
Competitive Bidding Procedures
A.   Notification and Advertising
1.   Advertising in a reasonable number of Thai and English
language local newspapers, clearly specifying that foreign firms
are eligible to bid.
2.   Bidding period: 30 - 45 days.
B.   Prequalification
1.   May be used, at the option of the Borrower.
C.   Bidding Documents
1.   Specimen form of contract shall be in the English language.
2.   Conformed copies of signed contracts shall be in English
or Thai language. In the latter case, a certified translation
of the form of contract and general and special conditions of
contract shall be provided.
3.   Bidding documents shall contain a clear statement whether
prices are subject to adjustment on the occurrence of specified
events, and the criteria for adjustment shall be included in
the invitation to bid.
D.   Bid Evaluation
Bid evaluation and decision on awards shall be carried
out in accordance with Chapter III of the Guidelines, unless
otherwise specified in this Annex.
E.   General
The Borrower shall take all reasonable steps to expedite
the preparation of bid documents, the evaluation of bids and
the award of contracts.


