Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2447-CHA
(Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 30, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2447-CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Implementing Agency" means singularly the department or agency of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out a Sub-project, and "Implementing Agencies" mean 
collectively the  departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the Sub-projects.
(b)
"MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any successor 
thereto.
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(d)
"Sub-project" means singularly a sub-project or study referred to in Part 
A or B of the Project, and "Sub-projects" mean collectively the sub-projects and 
studies referred to in Parts A and
B of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 35,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Page  3
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2003 and ending December 1, 2027. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2012 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the  Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower,  the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of 
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of 
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the  Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set  forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
the Implementing Agencies to carry out the Project under the general supervision and 
guidance of MOF, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, technical and administrative practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Page  4
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this  
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report  
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power 
or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account on account of any Sub-project if 
any of the following events shall have occurred and be continuing:
(a)
the Borrower shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or 
obligation under this Agreement in respect of such Sub-project;
(b)
the contract for the employment of consultants to assist in the carrying 
out of such Sub-project shall not have come into force and effect within six months 
Page  5
from the date of the approval of
such Sub-project by the Association; and
(c)
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that such Sub-project can be carried out in accordance with the provisions 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have 
approved the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Sub-projects under
      Part A of the Project
      (a) Equipment               2,800,000     100% of foreign ex-
                                                penditures, 100% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
      (b) Consultants'           11,400,000     100%
          services and training
(2)   Sub-projects under
      Part B of the Project
      (a) Equipment               5,300,000     100% of foreign ex-
                                                penditures, 100% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
      (b) Consultants'           16,000,000     100%
          services and training
                                 __________
      TOTAL                      35,500,000
                                 ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Page  7
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR2,200,000 
may be made in respect of Category (2) (b) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after November 15, 1992; and (b) expenditures on 
account of a Sub-project unless the Sub-project has been approved by the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's (a) economic reform 
program and related institutional strengthening, and (b) investment program for 
development projects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
PART A:
REFORM AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
 
Carrying out of selected sub-projects comprising the provision of consultants' 
services, training and equipment to Implementing Agencies responsible for the 
Borrower's economic reform program including the following:
1.
Improving the national accounting system and the capability for statistical 
analysis of the Borrower's State Statistical Bureau;
2.
Improving the economic analysis and forecasting ability of the Chinese Academy 
of Social Sciences;
3.
Assisting the Borrower's Commission for the Restructuring of the Economic System 
to carry out
various studies relating to the Borrower's reform program;
4.
Assisting the Borrower's State Tax Bureau to enable it to formulate and 
implement tax policy;
5.
Assisting the Borrower's Ministry of Materials and Equipment to support its 
program of reform of the distribution system for major goods;
6.
Assisting the Borrower's Ministry of Finance to carry out the Borrower's program 
of economic and sectoral analysis in support of the economic reform program; and
7.
Improving training networks in the Borrower's transport and health sectors 
including provision of training to personnel of selected local training institutions 
including overseas study tours.
PART B:
INVESTMENT SUPPORT
 
Carrying out of selected sub-projects comprising the provision of consultants' 
services, training and equipment required for the preparation of feasibility studies 
of projects to be financed by the Bank or the Association and project related studies, 
and, in exceptional cases, the implementation of such projects.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
Page  8
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in People's Republic of China may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association, except that goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
2.
Contracts for goods of a proprietary nature may be awarded after direct 
negotiations with the suppliers thereof, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence  to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall cause the 
Implementing Agencies to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  9
Implementation Program
1.
The Sub-projects shall be selected in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures specified hereinbelow:
(a)
The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method of implementation 
thereof, and the specific allocation thereto of proceeds of the Credit shall be 
determined by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
(b)
Each Sub-project shall be of high priority in the Borrower's development 
efforts and shall have no equally suitable financing available from the United Nations 
Development Programme or other external financing agencies.
(c)
The Borrower shall submit, for the Association's approval, the proposal 
for each Sub-project in a form satisfactory to the Association. The said proposal 
shall include the following
information:
(i)
a description of the proposed Sub-project, including a time 
schedule for, the 
purposes and objectives of, and the benefits 
expected from such Sub-project;
(ii)
a description of the role of the department or agency Borrower to 
be designated as 
Implementing Agency for the purpose of execution of 
the proposed Sub-project and 
counterpart staff, if any, to be 
supplied by the Borrower;
(iii)
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of 
the Credit including an estimate of foreign 
and local costs of the proposed 
Sub-project broken down by major 
items and showing amounts to be financed by the 
Borrower and 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, respectively, and an estimated 
disbursement schedule;
(iv)
the manner and form in which the allocated part of the proceeds of 
the Credit is 
proposed to be made available to the 
designated Implementing Agency including the 
terms and conditions 
thereof;
(v)
a general description of the arrangements to be made by the 
department or agency to 
be responsible for the execution of the 
proposed Sub-project for the provision of 
office space, 
secretarial facilities, transportation and other operational 
facilities required for the proposed Sub-project to proceed efficiently;
(vi)
the proposed selection procedures, qualifications, terms of 
reference and duration 
of service for any consultants to be engaged 
for the purposes of the proposed 
Sub-project;
 
(vii)
measures to be taken to comply with paragraphs 3 (a) and (b) 
below; and
(viii) such other information as the Association may reasonably request.
 
(d)
The Borrower shall, upon approval of a Sub-project by the Association, 
forthwith make the allocated part of the proceeds of the Credit available to the 
designated Implementing Agency in a manner and form and on the terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association. If the Implementing Agency is non-revenue earning and 
is deemed not to have the resources available for repayment, the Implementing Agency 
shall not be required to repay such proceeds. All other Implementing Agencies shall be 
required to repay such proceeds with maturity, interest rate and currency acceptable 
to the Association.  Under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall grant preference 
to Sub-projects proposed by designated Implementing Agencies which are non-revenue 
earning.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure effective coordination among the Implementing Agencies 
Page  10
in carrying out the Sub-projects and shall monitor the progress thereof in accordance 
with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable measures to 
facilitate the work of consultants in the performance of their services for each 
Sub-project and make available to them all information relevant thereto.
(b)
The Borrower shall not permit the amendment or waiver of any material 
terms and conditions of employment of consultants employed for any Sub-project, or the 
grant of any material extension of time specified for the carrying out of any 
Sub-project, or the grant of any material extension of time or any approval of 
sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or the agreement to substitute personnel of 
such consultants, without the prior consent of the Association. The Borrower shall 
promptly inform the Association if it proposes to suspend payments under or terminate 
any contract with such consultants.
(c)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association copies of the documents 
prepared by the consultants engaged for any Sub-Project, including reports and drafts 
thereof, in such number as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(d)
The Borrower shall establish arrangements and procedures, satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Association, for supervising and directing the work of any 
consultants employed for Sub-projects and reviewing the reports and recommendations of 
such consultants with the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association the information required under 
Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions in semi-annual progress reports, to 
be provided to the Association by
February 28 and August 31 in each year, for the periods ending December 31 and June 
30, respectively.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall
Page  11
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  12
