                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29564

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-24470)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 34.489 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                 FOR A

             REFORM, INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT AND PREINVESTMENT PROJECT




                                              June 29, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective September 2002)

                        Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) Yuan (Y)
                                  Y 1.0 = US$ 0.12
                               US$ 1.0 = Y 8.3

                               FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1     December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC               Agricultural Bank of China
ADB               Asian Development Bank
Bank              World Bank
BTO               Back to Office Report
CASS              Chinese Academy of Social Sciences
COSMD             Class of Service and Multi-Design
CPC               Chinese Communist Party
DICOM-3           Digital Image Communication for Medicine Ver 3.0
EDI               Economic Development Institute
EIA               Environment Impact Assessment
GDLN              Global Distance Learning Network
ICP               International Comparison Project
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
IFAD              International Fund for Agricultural Development
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MPS               Material Product System
PIP               Project Implementation Plan
PMO               Project Management Office
PROST             Pension Reform Option Simulation Toolkit
RMB               Chinese Currency (Yuan)
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SARS              Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SOE               State Owned Enterprises
SPC               State Planning Commission
SRC               State System Reform Commission
STA               State Tax Administration
STB               State Tax Bureau
TA                Technical Assistance
TCP IV     The Fourth Technical Cooperation Project
TCP V             The Fifth Technical Cooperation Project
SARS              Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SNA               System of National Accounting
SSB               State Statistical Bureau
WBI               World Bank Institute
XBRL              Extensible Business Report Language
XML               Expanded Marketing Language

                 Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
              Country Director    Yukong Huang
               Sector Manager
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Zhengxuan Zhu

                                            CHINA
                                  REF. INST'L.& PREINV


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 9
9. Partner Comments                                                              10
10. Additional Information                                                       10
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             11
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 29

Project ID: P003592                                                  Project Name: Reform, Institutional Support and
                                                                     Preinvestment
Team Leader: Zhengxuan Zhu                                           TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment          L/C/TF Number: IDA-24470
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Public Sector Management/Other Public Sector Management
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Infrastructure services
                            for private sector development (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P); Other economic management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 1991-12-24                                     Effective: 1993-12-03
     Appraisal: 1992-05-20                                         MTR:
      Approval: 1992-12-15                                      Closing: 1998-06-30                 2003-12-31



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      Subprojects Implementing Agencies

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Cheetham Russell
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Shahid Javed Buki
Sector Manager:                                                                Dvid Pearce
Team Leader at ICR:             Zhengxuan Zhu                                  Albert D. Howlett
ICR Primary Author:             Zhengxuan Zhu


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project has two principal objectives. The first is to support the Government's program of reform, and
related institutional strengthening. The second is to support the Government's investment program.
Specifically, the project is to (a) support reform-supportive studies and economic research; (b) help
strengthen selected core agencies responsible for macroeconomic management, (c) support local training
institutions, including some of those working with Economic Development Institute, and (d) provide an
assured and flexible source of financing for technical assistance for preparation of projects expected to be
financed by the Bank and IDA, and in selected cases for their implementation.

3.2 Revised Objective:
 The project objective has not been revised throughout the project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
    Reform and institutional development component. The estimated cost of this component was US$
26.6 million, including US$ 20 million of IDA credit and US$6.6 million of government fund. It consists
of subprojects for key core agencies involved in the reform program. At the time of appraisal, agreement
was reached with the government on a core list of seven subprojects under this component: (a) the state
Statistical Bureau - to strengthen its national accounting system and analysis capability; (b) the Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences - to improve its economic analysis and forecasting; (c) the System Reform
Commission - to carry out several studies; (d) the State Tax Bureau - to help its capacity strengthening to
formulate and implement tax policy; (e) the Ministry of Materials and Equipment - to support its program
of reform of the production distribution system for major goods of steel, timber, cement, ferrous metals and
vehicles; (f) the Ministry of Finance - to carry out China's program of economic and sector analysis in
support of the economic reform program; and (g) the Training networks in health sector, which was
supposed to carry out in close collaboration with EDI of the World Bank. The total committed credit
amount was around US$ 7 million. Funding reserved for financing of other and additional subprojects are
required for approval on a case-by-case basis during project implementation. At the time of appraisal,
following subprojects were under consideration: Legal Reform, Training Networks for Agriculture,
transportation and Finance sectors, etc,.

    Preinvestment and project preparation components. Cost estimate of this component was US$ 34.4
million, including US$ 30 million of IDA credit and US$ 4.4 million of government fund. The purpose of
this component is to finance feasibility studies and selected project-related studies. Subprojects were
selected according to following agreed criteria: (a) preparation of feasibility studies of projects to be
financed by the Bank or the Association; (b) selected project related studies; and (c) in exceptional cases,
the implementation of such projects.

3.4 Revised Components:
Component                             Credit        Government        Rating
REFORM AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS $23,680,401.63                         4,800,000        S

   In addition to the seven subprojects approved at the time of appraisal, the following 26 subprojects
were approved during the process of implementation: (1) Training network of the transportation sector;
(2) Agricultural Sector Training; (3) Public Finance and Management Training; (4) Management
Strengthening of Bank Credit/Loan; (5) Bond Trading Custody; (6) Quality Monitoring; (7) National
External Debt Management; (8) State Planning commission Training; (9) Quality Monitoring II; (10)
Capital Market Financial Management; (11) Institutional and Staff Capacity Strengthening of MOF; (12)
Strengthening Provincial Bureaus; (13) Medium and Long Term Fiscal Policy; (14) Strengthening Shanxi
Finance; (15) Liaoning Public Finance; (16) Shanghai High Education Reform; (17) Guizhou Investment



                                                     - 2 -

Environment Improvement; (18) Supporting Tax Judicature Study; (19) Wuhu Enterprise Reform; (20)
Wuhan Enterprise Reform; (21) Changsha Enterprise Reform; (22) Shengyang Enterprise Reform; (23)
System Design on Information Disclosure Database of China's Listing Companies; (24) Promotion of
Stability and Development of Medium and small Banks in China; (25) MOL Tackling Key problems in
National Employment and Social Insurance Management Information System; (26) Capacity
Strengthening in foreign debt Auditing.

Component                                 Credit      Government     Rating
INVESTMENT SUPPORT                                         $24,543,917.31      4,860,000      S

    Twenty two subprojects were approved and implemented under this component. They are: (1)
Yanzhou Power; (2) Zhejiang electric Power; (3) Longtan Hydropower; (4) Shengyang Energy Industry;
(5) Ertan Transmission; (6) Hunan Water Resources; (7) Hubei Water Resources; (8) Qinbei Electric
Power; (9) Toketo Power; (10) Chongqing Industry Reform; (11) Hubei Environment; (12) Gansu
Company Development; (13) Yunnan Environment; (14) Shanghai Wai Gao Qiao Power; (15) East
China transportation ; (16) Hunan Power Development; (17) Second Tarim Basin Irrigation; (18) Tongbo
Pump Storage; (19) Beijing Transmission and Distribution; (20) Baise Multipurpose; (21) Guanzhong
Irrigation; (22) Hebei Urban Environment.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
 Quality at entry is good for the following reasons: (a) The design of the project is in line with the CAS:
Since 1980, the fundamental objective of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy in China had been to
provide analytical and material support to the country's economic reform and modernization process; (b) It
requires a vigorous dialogue at the national level, supported by a substantial program of economic and
sector work, in order to address the Bank's objectives in China to support broad based economic
development and to combat poverty. It also requires direct support to key core agencies to strengthen their
capacity to carry out the analysis and later to implement major reform measures; (c) This project is able to
help the Bank to support a substantial program of lending with a strong reform program; (d) Before this
project, three other projects of similar nature were implemented. Lessons of those projects were learned and
applied during project preparation, including (i) detailed preparation and design of individual subprojects;
(ii) appropriate mechanisms and processes for periodic monitoring of subproject execution; and (iii)
flexible, but systematic overall project coordination and management; and (e) Mr. Lewis T. Preston, the
then president, expressed his satisfaction over the project preparation, by saying "I am satisfied that the
proposed credit would comply with the articles of agreement of the Association".

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    The project objective and outcome were substantially achieved, which met the Government requirement,
helped expedite the Government reform process and raised the project preparation quality. Annex 1
provides in detail the achievements of objective and outputs.

     Part A - Reform and Institutional Development (Credit amount: US$ 23,680,401.63 supporting 33
subprojects). Good achievements were made under this component: (a) About fifteen government
agencies and core research institutes responsible for macro economic management, as well as six local
governments were directly benefited from the project. (b) Through overseas trips and local studies,
researches, international and domestic workshops, as well as international and local consultancies, a lot of
new concepts and ideas were introduced, which promoted the government reform. (c) Weakness of various
sectors and government administrations were identified, reform needs were defined, good practice were
learned and policy recommendations were made accordingly. (d) A substantial part of the
recommendations made under the project were adopted by the Government at central and local levels, hence
becoming part of the government policies and regulations, or the basis for government legislation set up.


                                                      - 3 -

For examples: (i) A research was conducted by Heilongjiang under A20 on starting up the second
undertaking. It's recommendations on the key areas of investment during the second undertaking and their
fund mobilization provided good guidance to the provincial economic development. What's more, it is in
line with the needs to the "revitalization of the northeast old industrial base", which is a strategic plan put
forward recently by the Chinese Government. Based on this, the provincial government issued a series of
policies to support the revitalization of the old industrial base. (ii) Guizhou is among the poorest provinces
in China. Attracting external investment is one of the effective ways to help the province to get rid of
poverty and to develop the provincial economy. Focussed on this issue, the subproject supported several
studies, including long-term planning for external investment introduction; the organizational set up,
policies and regulations governing external fund introduction and management, the information system and
software development, etc. Following the completion of this subproject, the Provincial Merchant Bureau
was established, and a series of policy measures governing the external investment were issued by the
provincial government based on the recommendations of the subproject. To ensure sound climate for
external investors, the government traced the investment climate of thirteen cities and eleven national and
provincial development zones, and the tracing reports were made open to the public. (iii) Information
disclosure is an important mean to standardize the behavior and actions of the listing companies. A 31 is
approved for this purpose. Based on the recommendations of the subproject, the Security Supervisory
Board made the decision to push forward the information disclosure of all listing companies in China.
Since April 2004, the Board also has requested all the listing companies to use XBRL international
standard to issue their annual reports, thus greatly enhancing transparency of the listing companies . (e) In
addition, sector reform agenda, and that of the government at local levels are worked out. All these have
supported and promoted the government reform process.

    The project has achieved great success in institutional and staff capacity building and strengthening. Its
impact is obvious: (a) Great number of government and core agency staff received overseas and domestic
training either through the established training networks under this project, or the individual subprojects.
As a result, the trainees opened up their minds and learned best practices, both international and domestic.
Many of them got promotion and were able to play a better role in the government decision process by
putting forward good recommendations for the decision makers. (b) New models and technologies
developed under the project became useful means for smooth and successful transition from the planned
economy to the market economy. For example, (i) By implementing A1 subproject, SSB was able to
reform its business accounting system from MPS to internationally accepted SNA, which played its due
role in helping transmit from the planned economy to the market economy. It also helped SSB to reform
its survey method, using sample techniques, both for use in national accounting work and for monitoring of
economic trends. (ii) The dynamic annual economic analysis and forecast model, the seasonal model and
the enterprise model developed under A2 had helped strengthen the capacity of the Quantitative and
Technical Economics Institute of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences by enabling the Institute to
provide the government a quantitative basis for policy making. Its analysis and forecast had become an
important source of information for the government, the enterprises, and the academic ranks. (iii) With the
subprojects A14 and A17, China was able to adopt internationally accepted quality management and
certification system, including the principles, criteria and procedures, thus raising the competitiveness of
the government agencies and the enterprises in the international market. (iv) With A 16, the Chinese
Government is able to fundamentally change its way of formulating its National Five Year Development
Plan. The Ninth National Five-Year Plan (1996-2000) was no longer mandatory, but acted as a guidance.
(v) The information management systems set up under A4 (Tax Bureau), A33 (Tackling key issues in
Social security) and A34 (Auditing ) subprojects has forcefully strengthened the government's capacity in
information collection and analysis, and help link them to the National Golden Tax, Golden Social Security
and Golden Auditing Projects. In a word, the government capability in leading macro economic reform
and analysis is greatly enhanced.


                                                       - 4 -

     In spite of all achievements made, implementation quality of subproject vary. Two SOE subprojects
(Whhan and Changsha) were cancelled with no implementation at all. Impact of some individual
subprojects is modest, such as A5 - Material distribution system, due to subproject design, and A 32 -
Promotion of stability of small and medium banks, due to lack of China experience of the selected
international consultants. The whole project was not completed until after four extensions.

    Part B - Preinvestment and project preparation (Credit amount of US$ 24,543,917.31, supporting 22
subprojects). Given the government's funding and expertise gaps for project preparation, Part B
apparently filled the gap and contributed substantially to the enhancement of the preparation quality of the
follow up investment projects and ensured their time delivery. Good international experience were learned
in the project design. It also enabled the Bank to support a lot of projects with strong reform content. This
component led to 18 Bank/IDA follow-up investments, with the exception of three power projects and the
Baise Water project, ad the government decided at later stage to invest the projects with its own money.
Even though, the project preparation experience and the prepared documents of the subprojects played its
due role in ensuring high quality of project. implementation.

4.2 Outputs by components:
  Annex 1 of this reports provides in details the outputs of the project.

   Part A - Reform and Institutional Development. The outcomes of this component are in the form of (a)
research reports and policy recommendations; (b) new modelling and economic forecast techniques; (c)
comprehensive statistical survey system; (d) design of new management and service organizations, such as
the small and medium size enterprises service center, and the foreign teaching material center; (e)
establishment of the training networks in rural, health, transportation, and finance sectors; (f) national
database in auditing, social security, as well as the design for information disclosure system of China's
listing companies, etc.,

   Part B - Preinvestment and project preparation. Outputs of this component include: (a) feasibility
studies; (b) EIAs; (c) Resettlement Reports; (d) project designs; (e) procurement plan and bidding
documents; (f) dam safety documents; (g) PIPs; and (h) others.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    The institutional development impact of the project is positive and substantial: (a) its impact has gone
beyond the project itself. The project activity had spurred on similar activities of other research institutes
in other sectors and areas and at the various levels. Preinvestment preparation methodology were adopted
in projects with other financing sources. Their documents were regard as model for similar projects. (b)
The project established a proper administrative system, with the central PMO set up in the International
Department of MOF, and subproject PMOs in the concerned agencies and institutes. Their capacity in
project implementation and management was en enhanced. (c) Close linkages between the government
agencies, the research institutes, universities and the decision makers were established, which has promoted
the reform process of the government.




                                                      - 5 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
   Nature of the project. This project was not completed until after four closing date extensions. This is
largely due to the nature of the project, as economic reform in China is a dynamic process and thus
country's needs and priorities are changing along implementation. Subprojects were submitted by the
borrower and approved by the Bank in different time slices in order to respond to the changing needs. Also
to support a number of important reforms requires more time than was envisaged during the project
appraisal and approval.

    Natural and man-made calamities. The SARS occurred during the first half of 2003, affected
largely the overseas Study tours and trainings. It also affected to certain extent the procurement of foreign
teaching materials and international consultancy.

     Frequent changes of the Bank Task Team The Bank's Task Team had changed over four times
during the whole project cycle from preparation to ICR. This has brought some adverse effect on the
project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
   Motivation and Accountability. The positive factor is that the top Government leaders had a strong
demand for improving capacity and introducing reforms. There was also strong demand among the
beneficiaries for improving skills and institutional capacities. In addition, the Government attached great
importance to ensure adequate project preparation of major investment, hence is willing to use the credit for
project preparation. In a word, motivation and accountability, as well as the strong government
commitment contributed substantially to the successful project outcomes.

    Government Reorganization. The government reorganization in 1998 had brought both positive and
negative impact on the project implementation. The positive factor is that there was stronger demand for
institutional strengthening among the government agencies both at the central and local levels. The
negative factor is project implementation of some individual subprojects were affected and delayed, due to
organization and project staff changes.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
  Project organization and structure. The organization and administrative arrangements made for the
project, with a Central PMO in MOF and subproject PMO in each implementing agency worked well in
general. Sound coordination and good services provided by MOF to the subproject implementing
agencies, as well as good performance of the most implementing agencies contributed substantially to the
successful outcomes of the project.

   Staff Turnover. Frequent staff change and turnover has affected to certain extent, the project
implementation. During project implementation, MOF staff changed several times, due to government
organization and staff rotation system in the Chinese government. Staff of a few individual subproject also
changed.

   Subproject Programming. There is lack of subproject programming and lending program discussion
system. All subproject were reviewed and approved on a case by case basis. This could easily cause
prolonged implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
 At the time of SAR, the total project cost was estimated at US$ 60,000,000. Among which, US$


                                                      - 6 -

50,000,000 was IDA credit and US$ 10,000,000 was government funding. The actual project costs was
US$ 57,884,318.94, including 48,224,318.94 of credit and US$ 9,660,000 of government fund,
representing 97.03% of the estimated credit amount and 96.6% of the government funding respectively.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as likely. (a) Right from the beginning, MOF and the implementing
agencies of various subprojects had retained responsibility for the objectives of the project and the
respective sub-projects. Their ownership was strong. (b) For many of the subproject implementing
agencies, the activities financed by the credit represented only the first step in improving the techniques,
changing the regulatory framework, and altering the fundamental approaches to the scope and methods of
their work. The subprojects were continued to make use of the tolls and concepts acquired under the
subprojects, and were able to attract other funding sources to expand the their achievements: (i) the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences continued to receive support from the Bank under TCP IV project.
The Blue Book - developed under this project has brought about similar activities of other sectors. In
addition to Blue Book, there are now Agriculture Green Book, and World Economic Yellow Book. A
comprehensive analysis and forecast model system was established, which includes seasonal, annual, as
well as medium and long term models. Regional models in some areas were also developed. (ii) One of the
major outcomes of A15 is the two software on national foreign debt monitoring and World Bank projects
data transmission. These software were developed in 1998 and represented a big step forward in foreign
debt monitoring. Based on this, the State Foreign Exchange Administration upgraded these software in
2002 using the government funding, which not only speeded up data transmission, but also made English
version available. Because of this project, the Administration was able to get a grant in 2003, to set up the
foreign debt forecast and warning system. (iii) As a result of A5 subproject, the Bank approved the Tax
Bureau a technical assistance project, specifying on finance and tax reform. (c) The policy reforms and the
strong performance of the economy have encouraged these agencies to continue to try new approaches.
Again, the government's motivation in economic and sector reform is a strong sense for sustainability.
TCP IV was approved in May 1999, and the Government is now working closely with the Bank on the
preparation of TCP V.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
  Apart from the continued expansion of the achievements of the earlier completed subprojects, the 4
subprojects completed in the past year have all made transition arrangements: (a) Shenyang SOE Reform:
Based on the research on the establishment of the enterprise servicing center, Shenyang Municipal
Government has officially approved the setting up of the Center using the government fund. Once it is
established, it will provide regular services to the middle and small scale enterprises; (b) Information
Disclosure of China's Listing Companies: To strongly push forward information disclosure, China
Security Supervisory and Management Committee had made the decision to set up a large scale
information disclosure platform in accordance with the recommendations and the design made under the
project, to serve the public. (c) National Social Security Network: Under the project, pilots were
conducted in Tianjin and Liaoning. At the end of 2003, the social security network was extended to 10
other provinces of Shaanxi, Shandong, Hebei, Henan, Zhejiang, Hubei, Hunan, Fujian, Sichuan and
Beijing. The Ministry of Labor and Social Security have made arrangement to further extend the network
to cover 20 provinces in 2004, and to link the network established under the subproject to the National
Golden Social Security Project (Government funded). By doing so, all information related with social
security and statistical analysis data could be sought out at the network, and the social security work will
be standardized throughout China; (d) Auditing Capacity strengthening: The arrangements made by the
State Auditing Administration are: (i) compilation of the project proceedings, including the international



                                                      - 7 -

best practice, which will be translated and distributed to all the provincial and local auditing bureaus; (ii)
The two platforms developed under the project, namely foreign funded projects auditing management and
operations, will be extended to all the auditing bureaus and at all levels in 2004.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance in lending is rated as satisfactory. The project objectives is correct and the subprojects
identified are consistent with the Bank's strategies and the reform needs of the Government. It is built on
the experience gained from the three earlier technical assistance projects. The weakness is that the criteria
for subproject selection were broad and not fully prioritized.

7.2 Supervision:
  The Bank's performance at supervision is also rated as satisfactory. This is a project with 55
subprojects, including 33 under Part A and 22 under Part B. They across many sectors. The credit
amount of the subprojects vary. Apart from 7 subprojects which were approved at the time of appraisal,
all the others were approved during project implementation, after proper review. The Bank team provided
training on procurement, disbursement and project management not only to MOF, but also to the individual
subprojects. During the whole process, the Bank Team worked closely with MOF. The project
complexity and difficult to supervise is obvious. Great efforts were made by the Bank team to supervise
the project during implementation. It met MOF and the subproject implementing agencies on a semiannual
basis, to learn the project progress and solve the problems. The Bank team also maintained daily
communications with MOF and the subproject agencies through telephone and other communication means.
Special meetings were arranged upon needs or request by the Borrower.

     However supervision was not as thorough across all subprojects as it should have been, as it is merely
impossible to visit all the subprojects during supervision. Inadequate resource support/input from sectors
also affected, to certain extent, the supervision efficiency. Frequent changes of Task Managers had
brought some adverse effect to the effective supervision of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
   The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory, for its due contribution to the success design and
supervision of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
   The Borrower performance at the time of project preparation is rated as satisfactory. It collaborated
closely with the Bank team to work out the project objectives, the various components, as well as setting up
the criteria and procedures for subproject selection, process and approval.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
   Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. Its commitment and support to the
project is high and consistent throughout the project preparation and implementation. Technical Division
of International Department of MOF performed as the first reviewer of the subproject proposals submitted
by various agencies and government at different levels. MOF maintained good contact with the various
implementing agencies and provided support and services to them. MOF provided good support to the
Bank supervision missions by organizing the meetings and field visits, as well as the compilation of the
overall project progress reports. The cooperation between the Government and the Bank remained firm at
all times of project implementation and resulted in a positive impact on project performance. Procurement



                                                       - 8 -

ex-post review and the auditing showed that the project was carried out in line with the Bank's legal
document and no major issues were discovered.

    Like the Bank, frequent staff turnover of MOF caused some problem on effective implementation.
Absence of ex-post evaluation of the completed subproject is a weakness, which affected MOF and the
implementing agencies' learning from past mistakes to improve the project design and implementation in the
future.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
  The performance of the implementing agencies was rated as satisfactory. All the subproject
implementing agencies had appointed project staff. They prepared and submitted to the Bank, through
MOF, their progress reports on semi-annual basis, and provided useful support to the Bank's supervision
missions. They kept good contact with MOF and the Bank team. However performance of different
agencies was uneven. Some were less efficient than the others.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
   The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

    Motivation to obtain know-how is the most important factor to the success and sustainability of the
projects. In China, such motivation is strong. The experience of this project shows that a small size credit
(for subproject) can have a good impact on the recipient government's policy reforms and institutional
strengthening, if its timing is fully aligned with a political window of opportunity for reform.

    The project involved a process, and a flexible approach. This is appropriate on the one hand, given the
uncertainties of the demand for TA and of a changing environment. However on the other hand, it could
easily cause implementation delays and difficulties in supervision. Part of the four time extension of
closing dates was related to this. To ensure that the project is implemented in a timely manner, yet to
respond to the needs of the policy makers, (a) alternative ways should be considered. The Bank and the
Government should adopt a more strategic approach to analyze and prioritize the government needs and to
identify the most binding constraints to economic development and continued reform. (b) Subproject
planning and approval approach should be improved. Case by case approach was adopted under this
project. It will be much more efficient if the Bank and the MOF teams meet on a quarterly basis, to discuss
the priorities, the assisted areas and to agree on the lending program.

    To maintain the high implementation and supervision quality, it is important to (a) stabilize the Task
Teams of both the Bank and the government; (b) keep a good filing system, to maintain continuity of the
project implementation, and to avoid adverse effect in the case of the task team changes; (c) work out the
standard formats for project proposal and progress report, as well as the performance indicators, to be
strictly followed by all subprojects; (d) encourage involvement of the sector expertise in lending program
discussion, subproject request review and approve process, as well as supervision, as such TA projects are
involved in multi sectors and multi agencies and at different levels, and their involvement is key to quality
insurance; (e) set up the subproject task manager system.       Following approval of a new subproject, a
subproject Task Manager is appointed, who will work closely with the Task Team Leader, to exercise the
full responsibility of subproject supervision and evaluation; (iv) allocate adequate preparation and
supervision budget by both the Bank and the Government; (v) training on the Bank operational procedures
and regulations, especially on procurement, disbursement and project management, are very important and
should be carried out for each subproject before implementation starts.



                                                       - 9 -

    To keep the momentum of the TA project, and to allow participation of those potentially priority
agencies and localities, it is ideal if MOF and local finance bureaus consider taking the repayment
responsibility of the credit/loan, and require repayment only from those revenue-earning agencies.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
  The project played a positive role in supporting China's economic reform and promoting
China's economic development. International experiences were broadly introduced into Chinese
Government's decision making process. A lot of policy researchers and makers were trained to
master concerned knowledge and skills to solve new problems and develop new plans in transition
from planned economy to market economy.

    In general, the World Bank Task Team did a good job in guiding and supervising the
implementation of the project. They maintained a close cooperation with MOF and subproject
implementation agencies. Not only suggestions on procedures, but also suggestions on sector
development were available.

    The ICR prepared by the World Bank Task Team with strong support from MOF factually
shows the outcome and impact of the project. Its analysis of lessons learned and proposal of
future operations are reasonable.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

There is no additional information.




                                                    - 10 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


  Outcome/Impact Indicators
          Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Last Estimate
  Professional and technical capability       A1 Subproject was successfully completed    The impact of the subproject is substantial.
  strengthening for economic and statistical  in around 1998.                             Professional and technical capability of SSB
  analysis.                                                                               was greatly enhanced, which is reflected by
                                                                                          (a) China's national accounting system was
                                                                                         reformed, from the MPS to the
                                                                                         internationally accepted SNA; (b) data
                                                                                         collection approaches were upgraded by
                                                                                         introducing the sampling techniques; (3) SSB
                                                                                         's training program was strengthened; (d)
                                                                                         SSB is able to use the economic data in an
                                                                                         analytical context; (e) SSB is able to
                                                                                         participate in the ICP within the United
                                                                                         nations Framework; and (f) The traditional
                                                                                         analysis of pure description is now replaced
                                                                                         by qualitative economic model analysis
  Extending CAAS capacity in undertaking the A2 subprojects was completed in around 1998. Impact is substantial. Implementation of the
  annual and biennial economic forecasts and                                              subproject has greatly helped enhance the
  analysis using combined methods of                                                      capability of CASS in both conventional
  quantitative with qualitative analysis of                                               economic analysis and forecast and has laid a
  economic problems.                                                                      good foundation for its further development.
                                                                                          The economic analysis and forecast made by
                                                                                          CASS has become an important source of
                                                                                          information on economic development of the
                                                                                          government and enterprises, to be used in
                                                                                          their decision making process. They have
                                                                                          also become source of information for
                                                                                          external countries to understand China's
                                                                                          economic development trend. CASS
                                                                                          established good and longer-term relations
                                                                                          with overseas research institutes.
                                                                                          Implementation of this subproject spurred
                                                                                          similar activities of other government
                                                                                          agencies and research institutes, similar
                                                                                          analysis and forecast books are published,
                                                                                          such as the Agriculture Green Book, etc.
  Capacity enhancement of SRC on SOE         The impact of A3 is positive                 SRC has a major responsibility in design and
  reform and Financial Sector reform. .                                                   monitoring the overall economic reform
                                                                                          program. SOE reform and Financial Sector
                                                                                          reform were two key areas SRC focused on
                                                                                          at the time of subproject approval. To make
                                                                                          the reform successful, it was important to
                                                                                          help enhance the capacity of SRC staff. The
                                                                                          subproject has played its due role in this
                                                                                          respect. Through overseas studies and
                                                                                          trainings, as well as international workshops,
                                                                                          SRC staff's capacity was enhanced in areas
                                                                                          of enterprises structure; law framework of
                                                                                          enterprises, operation of enterprises;
                                                                                          organization and management of state
                                                                                          controlled companies. It also included areas
                                                                                          of foreign currency management, personal
                                                                                          income system; finance and tax system,
                                                                                          government bond market, etc.
  Capacity strengthening of STB.             A4 subproject was completed in 1996            Impact of this subproject is substantial.
                                                                                            STB is an agency responsible for drafting
                                                                                            new tax laws to support China's reform
                                                                                            program, and in particular, in areas of
                                                                                            corporate and personal income taxation, as
                                                                                            well as the turnover tax. Under the
                                                                                            subproject, quantitative examination of the
                                                                                            Chinese tax system and reform alternatives
                                                                                            was conducted, based on the collected




                                                               - 11 -

                                                                                           information on enterprises, which has an
                                                                                           important bearing on China's tax reform.
                                                                                           Institutional capacity building and
                                                                                           strengthening were realized accordingly.
                                                                                           Following the completion of this subproject,
                                                                                           STB was upgraded as STA. In addition, as
                                                                                           a result of this subproject, a tax reform
                                                                                           technical assistance project was approved
                                                                                           by the Bank in 1995, which is linked to the
                                                                                           National Golden Tax Project.
Reform the Materials Distribution System       A5 subproject was completed in 1998         The subproject gained some positive impact
                                                                                           in helping . China's Material distribution
                                                                                           system reform, which was traditionally
                                                                                           monopolized by the state. However the
                                                                                           impact was not as substantial as expected,
                                                                                           as the subproject design was not focussed.
Capacity strengthening of MOF in economic A6 subproject was completed in 2002.             The impact is positive. During the
study.                                                                                     implementation period, over 20 studies
                                                                                           were conducted, in the heated reform areas
                                                                                           of urban employment and salary reform;
                                                                                           public investment and co-financing, capital
                                                                                           market development, 21st century
                                                                                           education etc,. Institutional and staff
                                                                                           capacity of the concerned agencies was
                                                                                           raised.
Capacity building and enhancement of the       A7 subproject was completed in 2000.      The subproject achieved great success. Six
Public Health Administration through                                                     training and research centers of the medical
establishment of the training network                                                    universities of Beijing, Shanghai, Wuhan,
                                                                                         Harbin, Xian and West China participated in
                                                                                         the network. By close collaboration with
                                                                                         WBI, several hundreds people, including
                                                                                         senior local health officials received training
                                                                                         and participated in the international
                                                                                         workshop, as well as field visits. In addition,
                                                                                         Website Learning program was formulated,
                                                                                         over 13 courses for the trainers were
                                                                                         conducted. Health economy, which was new
                                                                                         to China at the time of subproject approval,
                                                                                         gained great progress. A lot of
                                                                                         recommendations made by the subproject
                                                                                         received attention and accepted by the
                                                                                         government, such as the Decision of the
                                                                                         Central Committed of the Chinese
                                                                                         Communist Party (CPC) on Health Sector
                                                                                         Reform and Development. The subproject
                                                                                         laid a good foundation for further deepening
                                                                                         the reform in the health sector. The health
                                                                                         sector is now better linked with the
                                                                                         international society.
Capacity strengthening of the transport sector A8 subproject was completed in 1999.      The training network include fourteen
through establishment of the training network                                            institutes and universities concerned with
                                                                                         transport. Due to government reorganization
                                                                                         and staff changes, only about half of the
                                                                                         subproject activities were carried out, thus
                                                                                         the impact is lag behind the expectation.
A9 Capacity strengthening of the rural sectorA9 subproject was successfully completed in Nine training institutes under the constituent
through establishment of the training network1998                                        ministries and agencies participated in the
                                                                                         subproject activities. Over 1,000 people,
                                                                                         including the medium and senior level
                                                                                         professional staff received Training for
                                                                                         trainers were also conducted. The impact on
                                                                                         the capacity building and strengthening is
                                                                                         substantial. The subproject also played its
                                                                                         due role in promoting the international
                                                                                         cooperation of the concerned organizations
                                                                                         with other countries. Tianjin College of
                                                                                         ABC signed cooperation and partnership
                                                                                         agreement with the University of US. The
                                                                                         Northeast Forestry University established the
                                                                                         Training Center on Wildlife protection and




                                                                 - 12 -

                                                                                       Management.
Strengthening of China's Financial         A10 subproject was completed in 1999.       Finance universities under MOF participated
Management Training Network                                                            in the subproject. Impact of the subproject is
                                                                                       good. During the implementation period,
                                                                                       over 800 officials in the financial sector, both
                                                                                       at the central and local levels received
                                                                                       training. As a follow up of this subproject,
                                                                                       MOF formulated the national financial sector
                                                                                       training program for years 2001-2005, under
                                                                                       which, a total of 700,000 people have been
                                                                                       receiving training. The training, although
                                                                                       funded by the government, it applies training
                                                                                       methodology learned under this subproject.
                                                                                       GDLN training is developed. In addition, 18
                                                                                       training centers were set up in different parts
                                                                                       of the country. A Memorandum of
                                                                                       Understanding was signed between MOF and
                                                                                       WBI, to further expand the training
                                                                                       opportunities.
Capacity strengthening of the world Bank   A11 subproject was successfully completed in  The impact of this subproject is positive.
Department of MOF, to enable better        2000                                          Key staff were sent overseas to study master
cooperation with the World Bank                                                          and PhD, in areas of macro economic
                                                                                         management, public management and
                                                                                         project management. Staff engaging in the
                                                                                         World Bank affairs received short-term
                                                                                         training on project management. All these
                                                                                         have laid food foundation for better
                                                                                         cooperation between the World Bank and
                                                                                         China. With capacity strengthening, the
                                                                                         Department staff are able to manage a
                                                                                         larger portfolio to include also operations of
                                                                                         ADB and IFAD.
Capacity Strengthening of the Chinese      A12 subproject was completed in 1998.         At the time of subproject approval, China
Government in Controlling the State Bond                                                 was in its initial stage of issuing the state
through Setting up of a State Bond Trading                                               bond. It is important to standardize the
Custody and Monitoring System                                                            state bond market, hence essential to
                                                                                         strengthen the Government's capacity in
                                                                                         controlling the State Bond. The subproject
                                                                                         provided the government with a useful tool
                                                                                         to realize its objectives through setting up
                                                                                         of a State Bond Trading Custody and
                                                                                         Monitoring System. In this respect, the
                                                                                         subproject impact is very positive.
Raise the competitiveness of China's       A14 & A17 subprojects were completed in     The impact is great. First it aroused the
enterprises through setting up of quality  1997 & 2000 respectively.                   awareness of the government and the
management and certification system                                                    enterprises of the importance of the product
                                                                                       quality, and its relations with the enterprise
                                                                                       competitiveness. Second, through consulting
                                                                                       services, overseas trips and international
                                                                                       workshops, both the Government and the
                                                                                       enterprises learned the technical skills for
                                                                                       quality management and certification. Third,
                                                                                       the government and the enterprises had a
                                                                                       better understanding of the legislation
                                                                                       implication to the effective operation of such
                                                                                       system, hence the legislation set up was
                                                                                       promoted.
Enhance China's capacity in external debt  A15 subproject was completed in 1999.       The National Foreign Debt Statistics and
statistics and supervision                                                             Monitoring System was first developed in
                                                                                       1987. To raise both the speed and quality of
                                                                                       the work, it was an urgent need to upgrade
                                                                                       the system. The subproject played an
                                                                                       important role in helping upgrade the system
                                                                                       through a series of studies and workshops.
                                                                                       The software developed In 1998 under the
                                                                                       subproject was proved quite effective. Based
                                                                                       on this, the government once again upgraded
                                                                                       the software with its own funding in 2000.
Introducing new method for formulating the A16 subproject was completed in 1996.       China used to formulate mandatory Five
National Five Year Plan                                                                Year Development Plan under the planned




                                                             - 13 -

                                                                                       economy. To help transit from the planned
                                                                                       economy to market economy, It is an urgent
                                                                                       need to alter the traditional method. In this
                                                                                       regard, concept change is essential. The
                                                                                       subproject objective was realized through
                                                                                       sending senior staff of SPC to study and got
                                                                                       training in US Stanford University. The
                                                                                       National Ninth Five Year Development Plan
                                                                                       (1996-2000), abolished for the first time the
                                                                                       mandatory plan, and was replaced by the
                                                                                       Guidance Plan.
Capacity Strengthening of SPC in risk       A18 subproject was completed in 2000.        The subproject objective was reached
management of international capital flow                                                 through overseas studies and international
                                                                                         consultancy services. It had also good
                                                                                         impact on enhancing the project
                                                                                         management skills of SPC staff, in areas of
                                                                                         post evaluation and international
                                                                                         competitive bidding. As a result of this
                                                                                         subproject, SPC issued a series of policy
                                                                                         measures on standardizing co-financing and
                                                                                         foreign debt risk management.
Capacity Strengthening of MOF               The outcome/impact of A19 is likely to     This subproject was approved in 1998, when
                                            achieve. It was completed in 2003.         the government reorganization took place.
                                                                                       To fulfill the missions of MOF and to meet
                                                                                       the needs of reform in the finance sector,
                                                                                       capacity enhancement of MOF staff was
                                                                                       essential. Supported by the subproject, senior
                                                                                       officials, key professional staff and promising
                                                                                       young professional received training or
                                                                                       degree studies overseas in different areas of
                                                                                       the finance sector. Those who had completed
                                                                                       their studies/trainings all returned to MOF
                                                                                       and are playing a better role in MOF's work.
                                                                                       Many of them got promotion because of their
                                                                                       outstanding performance.
Capacity strengthening of Heilongjiang      A20 subproject was completed in 2001.      The subproject received quite positive impact
Finance Department in supporting economic                                              in promoting economic development of the
development and foreign fund management.                                               province through researches, study tours and
                                                                                       training. Over 2000 people received
                                                                                       training. About 47 staff gained master
                                                                                       degree. Many had published their paper in
                                                                                       the local economic newspapers. In addition,
                                                                                       through the training courses of accounting
                                                                                       and government procurement, the
                                                                                       participants mastered the new accounting
                                                                                       methods and had a better understanding of
                                                                                       the basic theory and the related legislation.
                                                                                       People are better aware of the risk
                                                                                       management. The research on Starting the
                                                                                       Second Undertaking was forward looking,
                                                                                       and was of particular significance to the
                                                                                       revitalization of Northeast old Industrial
                                                                                       Base, a strategy put forward by the
                                                                                       government recently.
Capacity Strengthening of MOF in analyzing The achievement of A21 subproject objective Through large number of studies and
and forecasting the long and medium term    is likely.                                 researches on the key issues related to
fiscal development trend, as well as fund                                              financial sector reform, the capacity of MOF
management of the state finance.                                                       was strengthened, especially in areas of fiscal
                                                                                       development trend forecast, as well as fee
                                                                                       levy, collection and their management. The
                                                                                       research result had an important impact on
                                                                                       reducing the farmer's financial burden. In
                                                                                      2003, MOF issued a circulation, calling for
                                                                                      reducing the farmer's financial burdens by
                                                                                      standardizing rural fee levies. Rolling fiscal
                                                                                      plan System was also initiated by MOF based
                                                                                      on the recommendations of this subproject.
Capacity Strengthening of Shanxi Finance in A22 subproject was completed in 2001.      Impact of the subproject is very positive in
policy study and World Bank project                                                    two aspects: (a) policy study: Studies were
management.                                                                            carried out on key issues related to finance




                                                              - 14 -

                                                                                     sector reform, especially in areas of finance
                                                                                     income distribution mechanism, Regional
                                                                                     Finance; relations of industrial policies and
                                                                                     finance policies, etc.. Based on the
                                                                                     recommendations made of the above studies,
                                                                                     Shanxi Government issued a circulation in
                                                                                     December 2001,to adjust the finance
                                                                                     management system of prefecture/municipal
                                                                                     level. (b) Strengthened World Bank Project
                                                                                     management through training on computer
                                                                                     use, and foreign debt risk management.
Capacity strengthening of Liaoning Finance A23 subproject was completed in around    The subproject brought Liaoning Finance
Department in tackling key problems in the 2001.                                     good impact on key areas of financial sector,
financial sector.                                                                    especially in the social security reform
                                                                                     through support to a series studies and
                                                                                     researches related to social security reform.
                                                                                     A series of policies and methods were
                                                                                     promulgated by the provincial government
                                                                                     related to social security and government
                                                                                     procurement. Due to its good performance,
                                                                                     Liaoning was selected by the Ministry of
                                                                                     Labor and Social security, as a pilot in the
                                                                                     national social security reform. It was also
                                                                                     among the first provinces to apply
                                                                                     government procurement.
Higher Education Reform in areas of        The expected impact of A24 subproject is  After initial delays (due to government
teaching material and teaching method, and likely to reached.                        reorganization), implementation of this
achieving resource sharing among Shanghai                                            subproject gained good success. It had an
Universities                                                                         important bearing on Shanghai higher
                                                                                     education reform, especially in areas of
                                                                                     teaching material and teaching methods: (a)
                                                                                     Resource sharing among Shanghai based
                                                                                     universities was realized, through the
                                                                                     establishment of a foreign teaching material
                                                                                     center. The large number of teaching
                                                                                     materials procured under the subproject were
                                                                                     placed in the center; (b)Shanghai higher
                                                                                     education reform was promoted through
                                                                                     application of new management and teaching
                                                                                     models; and (c) Better information access
                                                                                     through website setting up. (d) enhancing
                                                                                     teaching quality. This is in particular in
                                                                                     medical teaching. The subproject had
                                                                                     enabled the Shanghai Medical University to
                                                                                     use the computerized image to teach and to
                                                                                     cure the patients. Due to good result,
                                                                                     Shanghai Higher Education Bureau had
                                                                                     decided to expand the subproject
                                                                                     achievements with its own fund.
Attracting external investors to Guizhou   A25 subproject was completed in 2001.     Guizhou is a poor province in southwestern
                                                                                     China. To raise the competitiveness of
                                                                                     Guizhou Province, so as to promote
                                                                                     sustainable economic development had been
                                                                                     a major objective of the province. To attract
                                                                                     external investors was an important mean to
                                                                                     realize such objective. Based on the
                                                                                     recommendations of the subproject related to
                                                                                     the attraction of external investment, the
                                                                                     Provincial Merchant Bureau was set up in
                                                                                     2001, a series of policies and regulations
                                                                                     were promulgated by the provincial
                                                                                     government, including the institutions set up;
                                                                                     investment climate indicators and its
                                                                                     monitoring, as well as the related software
                                                                                     development. The long-term plan for
                                                                                     attracting the external investment was also
                                                                                     worked out. A project database was set up,
                                                                                     which has inputted over 3000 selected
                                                                                     projects, about RMB 3-4 billion Yuan had
                                                                                     already been introduced to the province.




                                                             - 15 -

Tax related Judicature study                The subproject A26 was completed in 1996        The purpose of this subproject is the
                                                                                            support tax reform through setting up of the
                                                                                            check team and legislation set up, which
                                                                                            was largely realized. It has laid a good
                                                                                            foundation to the check team set up.
Wuhu SOE reform promotion                  The outcome/impact of A27 is likely to         The subproject had good Impact on Wuhu
                                           realize.                                       SOE reform through researches on: (a)
                                                                                          regrouping of properties & debts of some
                                                                                          selected individual enterprises; (b)
                                                                                          formulation of medium and long-term
                                                                                          development plans of a number of
                                                                                          enterprises; (c) design of the Consulting
                                                                                          Company for Small and Medium sized
                                                                                          Enterprises; and (d) staff training on applied
                                                                                          technology and degree study of the senior
                                                                                          managerial personnel of the government and
                                                                                          the enterprises. Quite many people found
                                                                                          their new jobs after training.
SOE reform of Wuhan SOE Reform             A28 subproject was not implemented.              Due to change of the Bank's Task
                                                                                            Manager, implementation was delayed and
                                                                                            caused ultimately the subproject
                                                                                            cancellation.
A29 Promotion of SOE Reform of             A29 subproject was not implemented.              Cancellation of this subproject was caused
Changshan                                                                                   by the staff change of the implementing
                                                                                            agency. Also because the original
                                                                                            subproject design was behind the needs of
                                                                                            enterprise reform.
Promotion of Shenyang SOE reform           The outcome/impact of A30 is likely to realize.The objective was basically reached. The
                                                                                          strategic paper on Shenyang SOE reform and
                                                                                          industrial development prepared under the
                                                                                          subproject made its due contribution to
                                                                                          revitalize the Northeast Old Industrial Base,
                                                                                          which is the national government's strategy.
Promotion of information disclosure of the The outcome/impact of A31 is likely to realize.The impact of the subproject was great.
listing companies.                                                                        Implementation of the subproject clarify
                                                                                          issues related information disclosure of
                                                                                          China's listing companies, and enabled
                                                                                          transparency of the listing companies, which
                                                                                          was in favor of standardizing the behavior
                                                                                          and actions of the listing companies. XBRL
                                                                                          criteria has been extended nationwide in
                                                                                          China ever since April 2004. Because of this
                                                                                          subproject, the Security Supervisory Board
                                                                                          decided to establish large scale information
                                                                                          disclosure platform.
Promote steady development of medium and The outcome/impact of A32 is basically           Impact of this subproject is not even.
small sized commercial bank though setting positive, however could be better.             Overseas trips provided China with useful
up the exit mechanism of China's small and                                                experience in areas of entry and exit of small
medium banks.                                                                             and medium sized banks, the related
                                                                                          operational procedures, as well as risk
                                                                                          prevention through establishing deposit
                                                                                          insurance and the risk forecast system.
                                                                                          However the consulting service did not reach
                                                                                          the expectation of the implementing agency,
                                                                                          as the consulting company had little
                                                                                          knowledge about China's small and medium
                                                                                          commercial banks.
Key problem research on Labor and Social   The outcome/impact of A33 is likely to be      Impact of this subproject was substantial.
Security Information management            realized.                                      Based on the pilot in Liaoning and Tianjin,
                                                                                          the National Social Security System became
                                                                                          high quality and realized information sharing
                                                                                          between Central and provincial levels is
                                                                                          realized. New technology was used, such as
                                                                                          PROST. These have laid a good foundation
                                                                                          for the standardizing the social security work.
                                                                                          The subproject has provided good
                                                                                          recommendations to the policy makers.
                                                                                          Forecast of pension insurance fund needs
                                                                                          using PROST model facilitated the pilot
                                                                                          work in Liaoning. Ministry of Labor and




                                                              - 16 -

                                                                                          Social Security issued a circulation in
                                                                                          December 2003, on setting up of unified
                                                                                          nationwide social security information
                                                                                          system, which was connected to the National
                                                                                          Golden Social Security Project.
Standardize China's auditing on foreign debt, The outcome/impact of A34 is likely to be   Impact of this subproject was substantial. It
to reduce foreign debt risks                  reached before the closing date of December undertook useful exploration on a series of
                                              31, 2003.                                   key issues, including proper foreign debt
                                                                                          management system, risk prevention and
                                                                                          improving the auditing methods. It had
                                                                                          indicated in particular the way to extend the
                                                                                          auditing experience of the World Bank
                                                                                          project to other foreign funded projects. The
                                                                                          extensive use of the auditing management
                                                                                          and operational platforms had helped raise
                                                                                          auditing management and standardize the
                                                                                          auditing procedures throughout China.
Part B: Enhance the investment preparation Part B: All the subprojects were completed     Part B: Given the apparent funding and
quality and project.                          before 2000, which bought good impact on    expertise gaps for project preparation,
                                              the project preparation quality.            Implementation of part B subprojects has
                                                                                          helped raise the preparation quality, ensure
                                                                                          project delivering in a timely manner, and
                                                                                          avoid implementation problems caused by
                                                                                          poor preparation.


Output Indicators

        Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Last Estimate
Introducing national accounts based on        A1 subproject was successfully completed in The output indicators were fully
SNA; Developing economic statistics based 1998.                                           materialized: (a) SNA is introduced, which
on business and enterprise survey using                                                   enabled connection of SSB with the
sampling techniques; use economic data in                                                 international practice; (b) A comprehensive
an analytical context                                                                     statistical survey system is established,
                                                                                          focusing on sampling techniques; and (c)the
                                                                                          economic forecast model was worked out.
Annual and biennial economic forecast;        A2 subproject was completed in 1998.        All listed outputs were materialized. In
providing quantitative basis for policy                                                   addition to the annual and biennial economic
making; a model specifically for decision                                                 forecast, the subproject enabled CASS to
making of the enterprises; setting up of a                                                provide the Chinese Government the
small scale database and a computer network                                               quarterly report. It published, on a regular
for economic analysis and forecast.                                                       basis, the annual report on China's economic
                                                                                          analysis and forecast, both in Chinese and
                                                                                          English. It has also set up information center
                                                                                          and website for China's economic analysis
                                                                                          and forecast
Improved government policies, laws and        A3 subproject was completed in 1996.        Following the completion of the subproject,
regulations governing enterprises and finance                                             the State Council and SRC formulated a
                                                                                          series of reform policies in the financial
                                                                                          sector and SOE reform.
research reports and tax management           A4 subproject was completed in 1996.         Four research reports were completed,
software                                                                                   concerning tax statistics, real estate tax
                                                                                           levy, technical specifications for tax levy
                                                                                           and computerized tax management. The
                                                                                           design for computerized tax management
                                                                                           was worked out, software were procured.
Principles and prerequisites for the          A5 subproject was completed in 1998.         Based on the set principles, a commodity
establishment of trading centers                                                           transaction network was set up, and based
                                                                                           on this, a National Commodity Distribution
                                                                                           and Servicing Center was established by
                                                                                           China's Material Storage and
                                                                                           Transportation Company after the
                                                                                           subproject completion.
Research reports                              A6 subproject was completed in 2002.         Research reports were prepared and
                                                                                           submitted, in areas of urban employment
                                                                                           and salary reform; public investment and
                                                                                           co-financing; development of capital
                                                                                           market; China's foreign trade policy;



                                                                  - 17 -

                                                                                        modern enterprise system; state property;
                                                                                        Pension system reform, development of the
                                                                                        tertiary industry; long-term food security;
                                                                                        Expenditure of the Public Sector; 21st
                                                                                        century education; and SOE reform, etc,.
Establishing the training network for health  A7 subproject was completed in 2000.    The training network in health sector was
sector, and research reports                                                          established. research reports submitted
                                                                                      included Fund mobilization of health care in
                                                                                      poor areas; Financial resources for urban
                                                                                      health care; Hospital's operational behavior;
                                                                                      Experience of the developed areas on health
                                                                                      reform and development; regional health
                                                                                      plan; pilot on health care in poor areas;
                                                                                      reform and improvement of health care
                                                                                      system of the enterprise employees; rural
                                                                                      cooperative medical care system of the
                                                                                      economically developed areas; impact of
                                                                                      tax/fee reform on health care fund
                                                                                      mobilization in rural areas; price for medical
                                                                                      services; evaluation on the private health
                                                                                      organizations; possibility of setting up of
                                                                                      state shareholding hospitals; and analysis on
                                                                                      irrational increase of medical fees and their
                                                                                      control, etc,.
Training network set up; Formulation of the A8 subproject was completed in 1999.        The training network in transportation
training plan targeting on the decision makers                                          sector was set up. Based on a survey to
of the transport sector, as well as the                                                 over 60 senior management of both the
managers of large and medium sized                                                      concerned government agencies and the
transportation enterprises;                                                             enterprises, training goals and activities for
                                                                                        three years of 1996-1998 was formulated.
Training network set up of the agricultural   A9 subproject was completed in 1998.    The training network was set up in the
sector; Development of training materials.                                            agricultural sector. Two teaching materials
                                                                                      were worked out: (a) management and
                                                                                      analysis of the agricultural projects; and (b)
                                                                                      design and management of government
                                                                                      official training.
Formulation of the national training program.A10 subproject was completed in 1999.      About 20 training courses on finance
                                                                                        related subjects were conducted,26 MOF
                                                                                        staff were sent overseas either as visiting
                                                                                        scholars, or receiving short term training.
                                                                                        All of them submitted to MOF management
                                                                                        their training reports, following their
                                                                                        returning to China. After the completion of
                                                                                        this subproject, MOF formulated the
                                                                                        national training program for the period of
                                                                                        2001-2005
Training reports                              A11 subproject was completed in 2000.     About 30 MOF staff were sent overseas to
                                                                                        study Phd. MOF and local finance staff
                                                                                        responsible for World Bank affairs received
                                                                                        overseas training. All these have enhanced
                                                                                        their capacity in world Bank project
                                                                                        management and improved cooperation
                                                                                        with the World Bank.
General design of the State Bond Trading      A12 subproject was completed in 1998.     The design was completed. Computerized
Custody and Monitoring System                                                           issuing and transaction of the state bond
                                                                                        was realized.
Related reports on quality management and A14 & A17 subprojects were completed in     The subproject was able to introduce the
certification.                                1997 & 2000 respectively.               internationally accepted principles, criteria
                                                                                      and procedures for quality review and
                                                                                      certification. Four research reports were
                                                                                      prepared: (a) Reviewing and approval
                                                                                      procedure of quality certification; (b)
                                                                                      International criteria for quality examination;
                                                                                      (c) Methods to establish the international
                                                                                      quality system; and (d) preview of quality
                                                                                      framework.
Software development for foreign debt         A15 subproject was completed in 1999.   Two software were developed: (a) National
statistics monitoring                                                                 Foreign Debt Statistics and Monitoring
                                                                                      System; and (b) Transformation of World
                                                                                      Bank Project Database.



                                                                - 18 -

National Ninth Five Year Development Plan A16 subproject was completed in 1996.             This is the first time that the Chinese
                                                                                            Government using the new model
                                                                                            (guidance planning) to formulate the Ninth
                                                                                            National Five Year Plan.
Consultancy report on the foreign capital   A18 subproject was completed in 2000.           The repot was submitted by the
flow and risk management                                                                    international consultant.
Back To Office Reports (BTOs)               The output will be materialized. A19          All staff received training under submitted to
                                            subproject was completed in 2003.             MOF management their BTOs upon
                                                                                          returning to MOF.
Research reports.                           A20 subproject was completed in 2001.         Eight research reports were prepared by
                                                                                          Heilongjiang Provincial Finance Department,
                                                                                          (a) transfer payment, (b)key policy issues for
                                                                                          regrouping the large and medium enterprises,
                                                                                          (c)accounting staff education; (d)criteria for
                                                                                          listing and circulating the state stock, (e)
                                                                                          northeast finance policies, (f) finance and
                                                                                          currency study; (g) research on setting up the
                                                                                          provincial investment company using state
                                                                                          property, and (h) start the second
                                                                                          undertaking, which is of particular
                                                                                          significance of revitalizing the Northeast Old
                                                                                          Industrial Base.
Policy recommendations on reforming the fee The output of A21 is likely to be realized.   Policy recommendations were made on (a)
levies                                                                                    Establishment of the framework of public
                                                                                          finance; (b) establishment of finance and tax
                                                                                          monitoring system; (c) Tax for fee reform:
                                                                                          (d)methods to formulate long-term finance
                                                                                          plan; and (e) increase the farmer's income,
                                                                                          etc,.
Research reports on key issues in finance   A22 subproject was completed in 2001.           seven research reports were prepared: (a)
reform of Shanxi Province                                                                   Thee major mechanisms for Shanxi
                                                                                            Finance; (b) regional finance; (c) training
                                                                                            and education of the finance staff; (d)
                                                                                            industrial and finance policies in favor of
                                                                                            economic structure adjustment; (e) foreign
                                                                                            fund utilization and their risks; (f) Shanxi
                                                                                            finance system; and (g) improving transfer
                                                                                            payment at levels below the province.
Research reports in institutional capacity  A23 subproject was completed in 2001.         A23 Five research reports were prepared: (a)
strengthening of Liaoning Finance                                                         social security; (b) government procurement;
                                                                                          (c) crop structural adjustment and its
                                                                                          supporting policies; (d) SOE reform and
                                                                                          development; and (e) grain management
                                                                                          information system.
Establishment of Shanghai foreign teaching Outputs of A24 are likely to be realized.      The center for foreign teaching materials is
material center; development of distant                                                   set up, which collects over 3000 teaching
learning and computerized teaching;                                                       materials from famous universities of the
construction of medical image information                                                 world; The central website for foreign
center in Shanghai Second Medical                                                         teaching materials were constructed and
University;                                                                               database set up; Shanghai Second medical
                                                                                          University, through establishment of the
                                                                                          image bank, XML database as well as
                                                                                          DICOM-3 and COSMD software, was able
                                                                                          to use the image to teach and for clinic
                                                                                          purposes, thus greatly enhanced its
                                                                                          capability.
Institution set up for introducing external A25 subproject was completed in 2001.         About 12 research reports were prepared and
investment.                                                                               published concerning the attraction of
                                                                                          external investment. As a result, The
                                                                                          External Investment Introducing Bureau was
                                                                                          set up, with related software developed.
Study reports for setting up the tax check   A26 was completed in 1996                      Study reports were prepared: (a) tax police
police                                                                                      set up and their management; (b) type of
                                                                                            tax abuse and their punishment; (c)
                                                                                            legislation set up and their implementation;
                                                                                            (d) check procedures.
Formulation of SOE reform program for       The outputs of A27 are likely to be achieved The subproject helped three SOEs formulate
some selected enterprises; Design of medium before the closing date of December 31, 2003. either the regrouping program, or the
and small enterprise consulting company;                                                  long-term development plan and market
Setting up of Wuhu Labor resources and                                                    strategy; The design for the medium and



                                                                - 19 -

social security management system.                                                         small enterprise consulting company was also
                                                                                           completed. The Wuhu Labor resources and
                                                                                           social security management system had
                                                                                           already covered the county level.
Formulation of SOE program of selected       A28 subproject was cancelled.                  Not done.
enterprises.
Formulation of SOE program of selected       A29 subproject was cancelled.                  Not done.
enterprises; on job training for enterprise
workers
Formulation of the Strategic Paper of        The outputs of A30 are likely to be achieved The strategic paper of Shenyang enterprise
Shenyang Enterprise Reform and Industry      before the closing date of December 31, 2003. reform and industrial development was
Development; Research report on setting up                                                 completed and published. Based on the
of the servicing center for medium and small                                               design made under the subproject, the
sized enterprise.                                                                          provincial government had decided to set up
                                                                                           the Service Center for the medium and small
                                                                                           sized enterprises.
Design of the database for information       The output of A31 is likely to be achieved    Design was finalized by the consulting
disclosure of China's listing companies      before the closing date of December 31, 2003. company following four workshop,
                                                                                           discussions and evaluations by the invited
                                                                                           specialists of the implementing agency. The
                                                                                           concerned staff received training on XBRL.
Policy recommendations for stability and     The output of A32 was materialized.           The policy framework for medium and small
development of medium and small banks.                                                     bank stability and development was
Translation of overseas research papers                                                    completed. However it could be better if the
                                                                                           consulting company had better knowledge
                                                                                           about China's medium and small banks. The
                                                                                           procured overseas paper of "Risk
                                                                                           management of the banks - experience of the
                                                                                           United States of America" was translated.
Formulation of criteria for employment and The outputs of A 33 are likely to be achieved Criteria for employment and social security
social security information system; various  before the closing date of December 31, 2003. information system was worked out, which
research reports.                                                                          have promoted information standardization.
                                                                                           A series research reports were prepared,
                                                                                           including: (a) Analysis on the national labor
                                                                                           market information network; (b) Analysis of
                                                                                           the information system on social security; (c)
                                                                                           studies on social security information
                                                                                           systems of Henan, Changchun Shanghai,
                                                                                           Liaoning,, Yichang, Sichuan Guizhou, Inner
                                                                                           Mongolia and Ningxia; (d) Forecast of
                                                                                           pension insurance fund of Liaoning
                                                                                           enterprises; (e) index for social security
                                                                                           information; (h) regulations governing the
                                                                                           use of personal social security card, etc.
The outputs covers two aspects: (a) two      The outputs of A34 are likely to be achieved  The research reports are completed and
publications: (i) Management and Auditing before the closing date of December 31, 2003. published. The management and information
of the Government Foreign Debts; (ii) Case                                                 system was set up with two platforms of
Study on the World Bank Credit/Loan                                                        management and operations developed,
Projects auditing. (b) Development of the                                                  which would be extended nationwide in
Management and Information System of                                                       2004.
Foreign Fund Projects.
Prepare project preparation related          All subprojects of Part B were completed      Project preparation documents were
documents.                                   before 2000.                                  prepared, including PIP, EIA, resettlement
                                                                                           plan, feasibility studies, dam safety, project
                                                                                           design, etc., with high quality.




                                                                 - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



                    Component                        Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
                                                           US $                   US$                      (%)
  Part A: Reform and Institutional
  Development
  1 National Accounting System                         1,032,943.80           1,032,943.80                 100
  2 Modeling and Forecast                               780,137.12             858,405.50                  110
  3 Studies in Support of Reform                       1,474,852.84           1,474,852.84                 100
  4 Tax Reform                                          871,432.25             871,432.25                  100
  5 Materials Distribution System                       981,432.84             981,432.84                  100
  6 Economic and sector Analysis                        488,185.09             425,929.22                 87.25
  7 Training Network of Health                         1,380,443.89           1,300,368.88                94.20
  8 Training Network of Transportation *                512,240.13             214,610.91                 41.90
  9 Training Network of Rural Sector                   1,529,013.93           1,529,013.93                 100
  10 Public Finance and Management Training            1,076,403.93           1,042,149.16                96.82
  11 Development of Capacity of the World Bank          343,641.75             342,712.12                 99.73
  Department of MOF
  12 Bond Trading Custody                               110,166.08             110,166.08                  100
  13 Institutional Strengthening of Transportation          0                       0                       0
  Sector
  14 Quality Monitoring I                              1,458,275.62           1,458,275.62                 100
  15 Capacity Strengthening of National External        281,882.32             282,020.80                100.05
  Debt Bureau
  16 Staff Training of the state Planning               294,575.88             294,575.88                  100
  Commission
  17 Quality Monitoring I                               864,892.41             864,892.41                  100
  18 Capital Market Risk Study                          109,900.33             105,350.49                 95.85
  19 Institutional and Staff Capacity Building of      4,185,605.73           4,045,287.27                96.65
  MOF
  20 Capacity Strengthening of Heilongjiang             504,226.52             490,087.93                 97.20
  Finance Administration
  21Medium and Long Term Fiscal Policy                  674,460.98             661,518.77                 98.08
  22 Capacity strengthening of Shanxi Finance           512,529.26             550,399.93                107.39
  Administration
  23 Capacity strengthening of Liaoning Finance         328,421.80             300,046.48                 91.36
  Administration
  24.Shanghai High Education Teaching Material         1,032,731.78           1,032,340.42                99.97
  Reform
  25 Institutional Strengthening of Guizhou             300,428.91             187,523.35                 62.42
  Government
  26 Judicature Study                                   306,780.65             222,246.08                 72.44
  27 Wuhu SOE Reform                                    670,327.15             625,444.93                 93.30
  28 Wuhan SOE Reform                                   492,366.42                  0                       0
  29 Changsha SOE Reform                                601,780.37                  0                       0
  30 Shenyang SOE Reform                                449,514.41             449,375.36                 99.97
  31 Information Disclosure of                          682,191.76             639,867.01                 93.80
  China's Listing Companies
  32 Promotion Stability of Small and Medium            527,174.49             465,063.67                 88.22
  banks
  33 Tackling Key Problems in Labor and Social          523,283.45             501,577.73                 95.85
  Security
  34 Capacity Strengthening of the State Audit          225,851.47             222,368.37                 98.46
  Bureau

  Part B: Preinvestment and Project
  Preparation
  1 Yangzhou Power Plant                               2,196,402.98           2,196,402.98                 100
  2 Zhejiang Power Development                         1,144,801.71           1,144,801.71                 100
  3 Longtan Hydropower                                 2,105,500.87           2,105,500.87                 100
  4 Shenyang Engineering Industry                       878,978.36             878,978.36                  100
  5 Ertan Power Transmission                           2,422,684.12           2,422,684.12                 100




                                                            - 21 -

   6 Hunan Water Resources                                       346,693.39                        346,693.39                          100
   7 Hubei Water Resources                                       301,772.08                        301,772.08                          100
   8 Henan Qinbei Electric Power                                 682,890.42                        682,890.42                          100
   9 Inner Mongolia Tuoketuo Power Project                       1,848,598.24                     1,848,598.24                         100
   10 Chongqing Industry Reform                                  382,953.71                        382,953.71                          100
   11 Hubei Environment                                           81,206.30                        81,206.30                           100
   12 Hexi Corridor                                               47,499.03                        47,499.03                           100
   13 Yunnan Environment                                         186,992.37                        186,992.37                          100
   14
   15 Shanghai Waigaoqiao Power Plant                            3,483,069.68                     3,483,069.68                         100
   16 East China Power Transmission                              2,287.105.87                     2,287.105.87                         100
   17 Hunan Power Development                                    1,384,215.95                     1,384,215.95                         100
   18 Tarim Basin II                                             735,845.89                        735,845.89                          100
   19
   20 Tongbo Pump Storage                                        437,220.16                        902,762.29                         206.48
   21 Beijing Power Transmission and Distribution                 73,400.00                        73,400.00                           100
   22 Baise Multipurpose Development                             1,257,450.23                     1,257,450.23                         100
   23 Guanzhong Irrigation                                       743,873.32                       1,002,556.55                        134.78
   24 Hebei City Environment                                     790,537.27                        790,537.27                          100
   General*                                                      272,383.96                        98,121.60
   Total                                                       49,700.171.27                     48,224,318.94                        97.03
   * This category is for funds set aside in the general categories that were not reallocated to subcategories, as well as the gain recognized in the
   Special Account.


                                                                Summary Table

   Original Principal (US$)                                                                                                         50,000,000.00
   Disbursed (US$)                                                                                                                  48,224,318.94
   % of Disbursed                                                                                                                           97.03
   Undisbursed (US$)                                                                                                                 1,775,681.06



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                        1
                                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                           ICB                      NCB                             2               N.B.F.              Total Cost
                                                                                                   Other
1. Works                                           0.00                     0.00                    0.00                      0.00                   0.00
                                                  (0.00)                   (0.00)                  (0.00)                    (0.00)                 (0.00)
2. Goods                                           0.00                     9.10                    3.00                      0.00                  12.10
                                                  (0.00)                   (8.70)                  (2.80)                    (0.00)                (11.50)
3. Services                                        0.00                     0.00                    31.70                     0.00                  31.70
                                                  (0.00)                   (0.00)                  (26.50)                   (0.00)                (26.50)
4. Training                                        0.00                     0.00                    16.20                     0.00                  16.20
                                                  (0.00)                   (0.00)                  (12.00)                   (0.00)                (12.00)
5. Miscellaneous                                   0.00                     0.00                    0.00                      0.00                   0.00
                                                  (0.00)                   (0.00)                  (0.00)                    (0.00)                 (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                   0.00                     0.00                    0.00                      0.00                   0.00
                                                  (0.00)                   (0.00)                  (0.00)                    (0.00)                 (0.00)
   Total                                           0.00                     9.10                    50.90                     0.00                  60.00
                                                  (0.00)                   (8.70)                  (41.30)                   (0.00)                (50.00)




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)



                                                                       - 22 -

                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               1.10              5.59             0.00              6.69
                                           (0.00)             (1.00)            (4.63)            (0.00)           (5.63)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             31.16             0.00             31.16
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (26.20)            (0.00)           (26.20)
   4. Training                              0.00               0.00             20.04             0.00             20.04
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (16.40)            (0.00)           (16.40)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               1.10             56.79             0.00             57.89
                                           (0.00)             (1.00)           (47.23)            (0.00)           (48.23)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Part A: Reform and          20000000. 4000000.0                    23680401.6 4800000.0                  118.4    120.0
Institutional Development        00           0                         3            0
Part B: Preinvestment and 30000000. 6000000.0                      24543917.3 4860000.0                  81.8      81.0
                                 00           0                         1            0




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
 Stage of Project Cycle                              No. of Persons and Specialty                    Performance Rating
                                                   (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                      Month/Year         Count                Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
                 03/92                                1     Technical Assistance                                     S
                                                      2     Training                                                 S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                 07/92                                1     Technical Assistance                                     S
                                                      1     Operations                                               S
                                                      2     Training                                                 S

 Supervision
                 06/25/1993                            1    SCO
                 03/02/1994                            1    SCO
                 12/16/1994                            1    SCO                                       S             HS
                 07/19/1995                            1    SCO                                       S             HS
                 06/26/1997                            2    TM, CO                                    S             HS
                 12/18/1998                            4    TTL, FDS, PS and C                        S             HS
                 11/24/2000                            4    TTL; 2 FDS, PS                            S              S
                 05/18/2001                            2    TTL; PS                                   S              S
                 11/26/2001                            2    TTL; PS                                   S              S
                 05/20/2002                            2    TTL; PS                                   S              S
                 11/18/2002                            2    TTL; PS                                   S              S
                 06/16/1003                            2    TTL; PS                                   S              S
                 09/24/2003                            2    TTL; PS                                   S              S

 ICR
                 04/20/2004                           2      TTL; PS                                  S              S
                 05/31/2004                           1      TTL                                      S              S

TA: Technical Assistance Specialist               T:Training Specialist
 O: Operations Officer                                     SCO: Senior Country Officer
 TM: Task Manager                                          CO: Country Officer
 FDS: Financial and Disbursement Specialist       PS: Procurement Specialist
 C: Coordinator                                   TTL: Task Team Leader

(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                           146.84
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                                          276.54
  ICR                                                                                      27
  Total                                                                                450.38
According the Bank's record, there are only two categories: LEN and SPN. Therefore the above 146.84 covers both
identification/preparation and appraisal/negotiation.




                                                             - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to
the Executive Directors (November 20, 1992) .

    2. Development Credit Agreement (December 30, 1992).

    3. PSRs.

    4. Borrower's ICR.




                                              - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. [Borrower's Contribution]




                            Implementation Completion Report


                                              Of


             China Reform, institutional Strengthening and Pre-investment Project




                                         Prepared by:

                                  International Department

                                     Ministry of Finance

                                 People's Republic of China

                                         June, 2004




                                           - 29 -

1. Summary of the Project
1.1 Project Title:
Third Technical Cooperation Credit Project
(Reform, Institutional Support & Pre-investment Project)
Credit No.:
2447-CHA
Project Implementation Agency:
International Department, Ministry of Finance, People's Republic of China
World Bank Board Approval:
December 15, 1992
Development Credit Agreement Signing:
December 30, 1992
Development Credit Agreement Effectiveness:
March 12, 1993
Original Closing:
June 30, 1998
Revised Closing:
December 31, 2003
1.9. Allocated Credit:
SDR 35,500,000(US$50,000,000 equivalent)
Disbursed Credit:
US$48,224,318.94 equivalent
Disbursement Proportion:
97.03%

2. Background

2.1 At the end of 1970's, the Chinese Government began carrying out the well-known
market-oriented economic system reform. In 1982, the Chinese Government put forward that,
the general goal of economic development during the 20 years from 1981 to the end of 20th
century is to doubled the whole country's annual industrial and agricultural output with
economic benefits increased. It was meanwhile put forward that, for realizing the goal, from
1981 to 1986, adjustment of economic structure, consolidation and perfection of implemented
preliminary economic reform, and development of comprehensive scheme and implementation
procedure of the reform should be focused. In 1987, the Chinese Government identified the
full-scale reform and opening to the world as an important part of long-term guidelines
followed through the period of preliminary stage of Socialism.

2.2 Since 1980, World Bank has specified the basic goal of its Country Assistance Strategy
for China as supporting analytic and material assistance to China's economic reform and
modernization. One of the main components of such a support is technical assistance of which
the main contents include pre-investment, policy recommendations and capacity building. In



                                          - 30 -

the 1980's, World Bank approved 3 technical assistance projects applied by the Chinese
Government for credit financing. They are First Technical Cooperation Credit Project (Credit
No.: 1412-CHA), Second Technical Cooperation Credit Project (Credit No.: 1664-CHA),
Planning Support and Specific Studies Project (Credit No.: 1835-CHA). The first two
projects mainly supported pre-investment, and the latter mainly supported policy
recommendations and capacity building. These projects had been implemented very well,
playing positive roles on promoting China's economic reform and modernization.

2.3 In 1992, based on the experiences summarized from past 14 years' reform, the Chinese
Government put forward that, the goal of economic system reform is to establish the socialist
market economic system, in order to further liberate and develop productivity. It was
meanwhile put forward that, establishing and perfecting socialist market economic system is a
long-term development process, as well as a arduous and complex systems engineering.
Therefore, it is highly necessary to accelerate economic reform, convert operation systems of
state-owned enterprises especially large-and-middle- sized ones, accelerate the establishment
of market system, deepen distribution system and social security reform, accelerate the
transition of government functions. Under the new circumstances, World Bank approved the
Chinese Government's application for credit financing to implement Third Technical
Cooperation Credit Project . The project supports policy recommendations, capacity building
as well as pre-investment, and takes the first two contents as the core contents.

3. Comments on Project Objective

3.1 The objective of Third Technical Cooperation Credit Project consists of 2 aspects. One is
to support the Chinese Government to accelerate and deepen economic system reform and
strengthen capacity building of government departments and institutions related to policy
research, development, implementation and training. The other one is to support concerned
project implementation agencies to prepare well public investment projects, especially those
to be financed by World Bank.

3.2 Revision of the objective: No revision happened to the objective during the project
implementation because it is suitable for China's reform and opening to the outside world, as
well as economic development.

4. Comments on Project Design

4.1 As designed, the total cost estimation of Third Technical Cooperation Credit Project is
US$60,000,000 equivalent, including World Bank credit financing of US$50,000,000
equivalent and domestic counterpart fund of US$10,000,000 equivalent. The project consists
of two components. One is the Reform and Institution Development Component, with a cost
estimation of US$26,600,000 equivalent. The other one is the Pre-investment Component
with a cost estimation of US$33,400,000. Under the Reform and Institutional Development
Component, only 7 subprojects were approved with a cost estimation of US$7,000,000
equivalent during project appraisal, and other ones were approved during project
implementation. Under the Pre-investment Component, only an recapitulative demand analysis



                                            - 31 -

was made during project appraisal, all the subprojects were approved during project
implementation.

4.2 The 7 sub-projects approved under the Reform and Institution Development Component
during project appraisal were as follows:
No.     Sub-project Title                               Subproject         Implementation
                                                        Agency
1       Reforming     China's     National   Economic Foreign Affairs Department, State
        Auditing System and Statistical Investigation Administration of Statistics
        Methods
2       Strengthening      China's     Capability   of Institute of Quantitative Economy
        Macro-Economy Analysis and Forecasting          and Technical Economy, CASS
3       Strengthening Capacity of State Economic Foreign           Affairs     Department,
        System Reform Commission                        SESRC
4       Strengthening       Capacity      of     State International           Cooperation
        Administration of Taxation                      Department, SAT
5       Establishing    New     Materials Distribution Foreign Loan Office, Ministry of
        System under Socialist Market Economy           Domestic Trade
6       Strengthening China's Capability of Economic World Bank Department, Ministry
        Sector Investigation and Research               of Finance
7       Strengthening China's Public Health Economy Planning           and       Financial
        Study and Training Network                      Department, Ministry of Public
                                                        Health
4.3 During project implementation, World Bank and MOF continuously approved 26 new
sub-projects under the Reform and Institution Development Component according to the
Chinese Government's requirements for reform priority and progress at different stages.
Those subprojects are listed as follows::
NO.     Subproject Title                                Subproject         Implementation
                                                        Agency
1       Strengthening      China's      Comprehensive China                Comprehensive
        Transportation Training Network                 Transportation        Management
                                                        Training Center
2       Strengthening China's Agriculture, Forestry Education                 Department,
        and Water Sectors Training Network              Agricultural Bank of China
3       Strengthening China's Public Finance Training Education and Training Center,
        Network                                         Ministry of Finance
4       Strengthening China's Capability of Utilizing World Bank Department, Ministry
        World Bank Lending                              of Finance
5       Establishing    China's     Government   Debt Government       Debt   Department,
        Trusting and Monitoring System                  Ministry of Finance
6       Establishing                            China's Chinese       Association         of
        Market-Reconstruction-Based             Quality International Quality Identification
        Management and Identification System            Consultation & Promotion
7       Improving China's Foreign Debt Statistic and Capital Project Department, State



                                          - 32 -

    Monitoring System                              Administration      of     Foreign
                                                   Exchanges
8   Training the Staffs Involved in Formulating Foreign Affairs Department, State
    the 9th Five-year Plan                         Planning Commission
9   Establishing                           China's Chinese       Association         of
    Market-reconstruction-based            Quality International Quality Identification
    Management and Identification System (II)      Consultation & Promotion
10  Studying   Financing   Methods     and   Risk Foreign      Capital     Utilization
    Management in International Capital Market     Department,     State     Planning
                                                   Commission
11  Strengthening Capacity of Ministry of Finance  International Department, Ministry
                                                   of Finance
12  Strengthening   Capacity    of   Heilongjiang Heilongjiang Provincial Finance
    Finance Management Departments                 Department
13  Strengthening     China's    Capability    of Comprehensive           Department,
    Middle-and-long-term Fiscal Policy Study       Ministry of Finance
14  Strengthening Capacity of Shanxi Finance Shanxi            Provincial     Finance
    Management Departments                         Department
15  Strengthening Capacity of Liaoning Finance Liaoning         Provincial    Finance
    Management Department                          Department
16  Establishing      Shanghai     Municipality's Shanghai     Municipal    Education
    21st-Century-oriented  College    Curriculum Commission
    and Teaching Materials Development System
17  Improving Guizhou Province's Investment Guizhou           Provincial   Investment
    Environment                                    Promotion Bureau
18  Perfecting China's Taxation Judicature System International           Cooperation
                                                   Department, State Administration
                                                   of Taxation
19  Perfecting Wuhu City's Overall Plan of SOE Wuhu Municipal Economic and
    Reform                                         Trade      Commission,       Anhui
                                                   Province
20  Perfecting Wuhan City's Overall Plan of SOE Wuhan Municipal Economic and
    Reform                                         Trade      Commission,       Hubei
                                                   Province
21  Perfecting Changsha City's Overall Plan of Changsha        Municipal    Economic
    SOE Reform                                     and Trade Commission, Hunan
                                                   Province
22  Perfecting Shenyang City's Overall Plan of Shenyang        Municipal    Economic
    SOE Reform                                     and Trade Commission, Liaoning
                                                   Province
23  Perfecting China's Information Disclosure Information          Center,       China
    System of Listing Companies                    Securities Regulatory Commission
24  Promoting Stabilization and Development of Bank Management Department II,
    China's Middle-and-small-sized Commercial China           Banking      Regulatory



                                     - 33 -

        Banks                                             Commission
25      Perfecting China's Recruitment and Social Information Center, Ministry of
        Security Management Information System            Labor and Social Security
26      Further Enhancing China's Capability of Foreign                Fund        Utilization
        Government Auditing                               Department, State Administration
                                                          of Auditing

4.4 During project implementation, under the Pre-investment Component, 22 sub-projects
were approved, based on three-year rolling lending programs between World Bank and MOF
updated at different stages. Among them, 12 are involved in electricity development, 2 are
involved in industrial development, 5 are involved in agriculture development and water
resources utilization, 3 are involved in environmental protection. Below are the details:

NO.     Subproject Title                                  Subproject          Implementation
                                                          Agency
1       Preparation       for     Jiangsu     Electronic Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power
        Development Project                               Company
2       Preparation       for    Zhejiang      Electronic Zhejinag Provincial Electric Power
        Development Project                               Company
3       Preparation      for   Longtan     Hydro-power South       China  Electric   Power
        Development Project                              Affiliated Co.
4       Preparation for Shenyang Industrial Reform Shenyang            Municipal      Finance
        Project                                           Bureau, Liaoning Province
5       Preparation for Ertan Electricity Transmission      Sichuan    Provincial   Electric
        Project                                          Power Company
6       Preparation for Hunan Water Resources Hunan                    Provincial       Water
        Development Project                               Resources Department
7       Preparation for Hubei Water Resources Hubei Provincial Water Resources
        Development Project                               Department
8       Preparation for Henan Qinbei Power Plant Henan Provincial Electric Power
        Project                                           Company
9       Preparation for Inner-Mongolia Tuoketuo Inner              Mongolia      Autonomous
        Power Plant Project                               Region Electric Power Company
10      Preparation for Chongqing Industrial Reform Chongqing           Municipal     Finance
        Project                                           Bureau
11      Preparation      for    Hubei     Environmental Hubei Provincial Environmental
        Protection Project                                Protection Department
12      Preparation      for   Gansu    Hexi    Corridor Gansu Provincial Water Resources
        Agricultural Development Project                  Department
13      Preparation      for   Yunnan     Environmental Yunnan Provincial Environmental
        Protection Project                                Protection Bureau
14      Preparation for Shanghai Waigaoqiao Power Shanghai             Municipal      Electric
        Plant Project                                     Power Company
15      Preparation      for   East    China   (Jiangsu) East China Power Grid Co., Ltd



                                            - 34 -

         Electricity Transmission Project
16       Preparation for Hunan Electrical Development Hunan Provincial Electric Power
         Project                                           Company
17       Preparation    for   Xinjiang   Tarim     Basin Xinjiang     Uygur     Autonomous
         Agricultural Development II Project               Region Finance Department
18       Preparation for Zhejiang Tongbai Pumped Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power
         Storage Project                                   Company
19       Preparation      for     Beijing      Electricity North China Power Grid Co.,Ltd
         Transmission Project
20       Preparation for Baise Multi-purpose Project       Guangxi    You     River    Water
                                                           Resources Development Co.,Ltd
21       Preparation for Shaanxi Guanzhong Irrigation Shaanxi           Provincial     Water
         Agricultural Development Project                  Resources Department
22       Preparation for Hebei Urban Environment Hebei               Provincial      Finance
         Project                                           Department

4.5 In general, the project design is reasonable and feasible. World Bank and MOF fully
absorbed the experiences summarized from other 3 completed or implementing technical
assistance projects during project appraisal, and meanwhile, fully considered China's real need
of economic construction and social development in a new period, then made a highly flexible
arrangement for project implementation. The flexibility of the arrangement is very necessary
for project implementation to reflect duly and effectively moderate adjustments of reform
contents and process, timely participations in international economic integration and
appropriate demands for the World Bank financing. However, on the other side, the flexibility
made project management conducted by MOF and World Bank more difficult, and
requirements for their comprehensive coordination ability higher.

5. Realization of Project Objective

5.1 General speaking, the realization of project objective is substantive. All the sub-project
objectives were closely related to project objective and elaborated on it well. Most of the
sub-project objectives had been realized.

5.2 Under the Reform and Institution Development Component, a total amount of
US$23,680,401.63 equivalent was utilized to support 33 sub-projects, among which 24 ones
were implemented by central-level government departments and institutions, 9 by local-level
government departments and institutions. Objectives of the subprojects covered fields of
macro-economic management, finance, banking, taxation, planning, statistics, auditing, social
security, materials distribution, SOE management, public health, transportation, agriculture,
forestry, water resources, education, and etc. All the fields covered were among the
development and reform priorities mentioned in the Government's Working Reports presented
by the Premiers each year during project implementation. Except for two sub-projects related
to SOE management system reform, the objectives of all the other ones were realized, some of
which were well realized. During project implementation, a lot of policy recommendations
were adopted by central and local policymakers and became the action guidelines and


                                            - 35 -

implementation programs of reform in concerned fields. For example, the implementation of
Reforming China's National Economic Auditing System and Statistics Methods Subproject
promoted the transition of China's Statistics System from the Material Products System suited
to the Planned Economy to the National Accounts System suited to the Socialist Market
Economy. The implementation of Improving Guizhou Province's Investment Environment
Subproject propelled the Provincial Government to integrate the windows of attracting
investments and issue a series of investment promotion measures. Meanwhile, the
management capability and efficiency of key government departments and institutions related
to the policy research, development and implementation were greatly enhanced. For example,
the implementation of Strengthening China's Macro-economic Analyzing and Forecasting
Subproject help the Institute of Quantitative Economy and Technical Economy of CASS
expand the scope of macro-economic data collection, update the mathematic models for
handling macro-economic data, increase the accuracy of analyzing and forecasting results, and
set up a continuous and steady system of releasing blue books. The implementation of
Establishing Shanghai Municipality's 21st-Century-oriented Curriculum and Teaching
Materials Development System for Universities and Colleges Subproject help Shanghai
Municipal Education Commission enlarge the scope of application of imported teaching
materials in universities and colleges located at Shanghai Municipality, explore new modes of
inter-universities-and colleges sharing of imported teaching materials, and improve the
teaching quality of the universities and colleges. Furthermore, a team of economic research
and management talents was set up, having wide view and strong creativity, and being familiar
with international practice and China's real situations. For example, the implementation of
Strengthening Public Health Economic Studying and Training Network Subproject made a
good contribution to successful realization of the goal of reform in the field of public health,
for provision of a lot of trained talents, as well as Training the Staffs related to the
Formulation of the 9th 5-year Plan Subproject for successful transition of plan formulation
patterns, and Strengthening China's Public Finance Training Network for successful
establishment of Public Finance Management Framework. In a word, the implementation of all
these sub-projects played a positive role at different levels and from different sides in
deepening reform, enlarging opening up and promoting the stable, sustainable and sound
development of national economy.

5.3 Under the Pre-investment Component, a total amount of US$24,543,917.31 equivalent
was utilized to support 22 sub-projects, all of which were implemented by local government
departments and institutions. Objectives of the subprojects covered the fields of electricity
development, industrial development, water resources utilization, agriculture development,
environmental protection, and etc.. All of them were among infrastructure and social
development fields, vital to the national economy and the people's livelihood, and having
urgent need of support from public financing. Especially, electricity was one of the
development bottlenecks. Except for 3 subprojects related to the field of electricity
development, the objectives of all the other ones were realized, some of which were well
realized. The Preparation for Baise Multi-purpose Project Subproject is especially worthy to
be mentioned for even the project was finally financed by the government debt fund, the China
Development Bank loan and the equity capital of Guangxi You River Water Resources
Development Co., Ltd. instead of World Bank loan or credit due to adjustment made to the



                                            - 36 -

country's investment plan, the Feasibility Study Report, concerned regulations on Dam safety,
procurement and financial management, which were developed under the sub-project as its
outputs, were continuously applied with a good effect. During project implementation, a
large amount of World Bank loan and credit were mobilized to support China's economic
construction, with immense social benefits and economic benefits followed. According to a
glancing statistic, following the implementation of 19 subprojects under the Pre-investment
Component of CRISP, totally US$4.095 billion of World Bank loan and credit was mobilized,
including US$2.69 billion for electricity development (65.69%), US$0.345 billion for
industrial development (8.42%), US$0.61 billion for agriculture, forestry development and
water resources utilization (14.9%), US$0.45 billion for environmental protection (10.99%).
Meanwhile, a lot of advanced international technologies and management experiences were
applied in developing engineering plans, construction management plans, sector development
plans and enterprise reform plans. For example, as an output of the implementation of
Preparation for Shenyang Industrial Reform Project Subproject, the Arrangement for
Restructuring Shenyang Machine-Tool Factory formulated by international consultants
became a good roadmap of the development of the factory, making it keep a good
development trends till now. As an output of the implementation of Preparation for Hebei
Urban Environment Project Subproject, a new technology recommended by international
consultants was adopted by Shijiazhuang Qiaodong Waste Water Treatment Plant, to reduce
construction time and cost. Furthermore, a team of professional and management talents was
established, having rich experiences and high liability, and being familiar with international
practice and China's real situations.

6. Project Output

6.1 The project outputs are satisfactory. According to the sub-project implementation plans
agreed by World Bank and MOF, the sub-project implementation agencies conducted
numerous research, study tour, training, seminar and goods procurement activities.

6.2 Under the Reform and Institutional Development Component, project outputs were made
in the following forms:
i) New economic reform and management policy recommendations. For example, during the
implementation of Strengthening China's Capability of Middle-and-long-term Finance Policy
Study, Comprehensive Department of MOF prepared 21 reports with assistance from
international and local consultants, and put forward a series of advanced and operational
policy recommendations to the higher-level management.
ii) New economic research and management tools. For example, during the implementation of
Perfecting China's Information Disclosure System for Listing Companies, China Securities
Regulatory Commission decided to promote the development and application of information
disclosure system for listed companies based the Data Base Design Plan proposed by
international consultants, and then required all the listed companies to adopt XBRL standard
to release their annual financial reports from April, 2004.
iii) New economic management and service organizations. For example, during the
implementation of Perfecting Shenyang Municipal SOE Reform Plan Subproject,
establishment of a service center for middle-and-small-sized enterprises was approved by



                                             - 37 -

Shenyang Municipal Government, for provision of services to the enterprises such as
information consultation,market development guidance and training.
iv) Effective economic management training network. For example, during the implementation
of Strengthening China's Public Finance Training Network Subproject, the training capacity
and quality of the network were further improved, making it possible for the network to play a
positive role till now.
iv) Improved quality and capacity of human resources. For example, during the
implementation of Strengthening the Capacity of State Economic System Reform Commission
Subproject, a lot of policymakers at different levels of the commission gained opportunities to
learn directly international experiences, which optimized the decisions in terms of both
originality and science.

6.3 Under the Pre-investment Component, project outputs were made in the following forms:
i) Improved feasibility study reports in accordance with World Bank appraisal requirements.
World Bank and the Chinese Government have the same requirements for principles of
feasibility, but different requirements for specific contents, formats and evaluation methods.
ii) Other documents prepared in accordance with World Bank appraisal requirements. Such
documents mainly include the Environment Impacts Assessment Report, the Resettlement
Plan, the Procurement Plan and the Project Implementation Plan. The Chinese Government
has no or very simple requirement in this regard.
iii) Improved engineering plans. International experiences are very important for optimizing
engineering plans of the projects financed by World Bank loan and credit for they are always
large-sized and complex, so that they will get obvious benefits in the fields of safety and
applicability from introduction of new design concepts and technologies.
iv) Procurement documents prepared in accordance to World Bank Procurement Guideline
and Consultant Guidelines. It is a mandate requirement of World Bank that all the
procurement activities financed by its loan and credit should follow its procurement guidelines
and consultant guidelines, which is allowed by China's Bidding and Tendering Law.
v) Regional and sector development plans or reform plans. Such plans are always involved in
power price reform, water resource price reform, drainage area treatment and urban
development. World Bank generally requires the borrower to prepare and submit the plans for
sustainability.

7. Institutional Development Impacts

7.1 During project implementation, all the subproject implementation agencies' capacity were
strengthened. They accepted new management concepts, established new management
mechanisms, used new management methods, and finally improved their management
efficiency.

7.2 Under the Reform and Development Component, the subproject implementation agencies
are government departments and institutions responsible for reform policy research,
development, dissemination and implementation. Strengthening their capacity not only made
effect on their own development, but also the country's macro-economic and micro-economic
operation, allocation of public resources, balance of regional development and order of market



                                             - 38 -

competition.     For     example,     the    implementation      of    Establishing    China's
Market-Reconstruction-Based Quality Management and Identification System Subproject
made a good contribution to promoting the harmonization between China's quality
identification system with international practice, to provide solid guarantee for Chinese
commodities' entering into international market.

7.3 Under the Pre-investment Component, the subproject implementation agencies are
government departments and enterprises responsible for public investment and construction.
Strengthening their capacity, not only benefited the project financed by World Bank loan and
credit, but also other public investment projects. For example, Hunan Provincial Water
Resources Department successfully applied the investment management experiences
accumulated in the implementation of Preparation for Hunan Water Resources Development
Project Subproject to similar public investment projects financed by other resources, realizing
the simplification of management and operation teams.

8. Key Factors Effecting on Project Implementation and Outcomes

8.1 Key factors effecting on project implementation and outcomes are: nature of technical
cooperation projects financed by World Bank credit, the Chinese Government's continuous
requirements for deepening economic reform and enlarging opening up to the outside world,
reorganization and staff adjustment, natural and man-made disasters. The effects of these
factors are both positive and passive
.
8.2 Compared with ordinary projects financed by World Bank loan and credit, technical
cooperation projects attach more importance on macro-management. Any adjustment made
on the Chinese Government's reform program and World Bank's overall strategy on
assistance to China, will make direct effect on project implementation. Therefore, technical
cooperation projects were designed to be umbrella projects. Allocation of credit was based on
the principle of case-by-case principle, a large proportion of credit was unallocated during
project appraisal, and most of the subprojects were identified and approved during project
implementation. From the positive side, such a situation gave a large flexibility to project
implementation. For example, in the first part of project implementation, the focus of World
Bank support was improving staff quality, but in the second part, it was adjusted to be
providing policy recommendations. Besides, at the end of last century, when the Chinese
Government took SOE reform as a core duty of reform, allocation of credit to support SOE
reform in 4 pilot cities could be make quickly. However, from the passive side, such a
situation brought high uncertainty to project implementation. More adjustments always caused
to impossibility of timely allocation of credit in accordance with designed progress and plan,
so that project implementation was delayed. The closing date was extended from original
December 31, 1997 to December 31, 2003 (6 years in total) after 4 applications for extension
submitted by MOF and approved by World Bank.

8.3 1n 1992, the Chinese Government ascertained its goal of economic system reform to be
establishing socialist market economic system. Since then, China's economic system reform
walked on a new stage. During the 5 years from 1992 to 1996, the Chinese government



                                           - 39 -

adopted a series of measures to promote reform in the fields of finance, taxation, banking,
foreign trade, foreign exchange, planning, investment, pricing, materials distribution, housing
and social security, and preliminarily established the framework of macro-economic
administration, successfully promoted a rapid economic growth while controlled inflation at a
low level. During the 5 years from 1997 to 2001, the Chinese Government preliminarily
established socialist market economic system, continued to deepen reform in the fields of
finance, taxation, banking, housing and government reorganization. Meanwhile, the Chinese
Government exerted great efforts in enlarging domestic demands, to offset bad influences of
the Asian Financial Crisis and fluctuations of world's economy, as well as maintain a fast
economic growth. After 2002, the Chinese government put forward its strategic development
goal in the first 20 years of the 21st Century as roundly constructing a well-off society, and
mapped out a plan for building up a perfected socialist market economic system and a more
open, more vigorous economic system. Such a situation assured the demand of credit to a
largest extent, promote the expansion of project outcomes and play a solid foundation of
successful project implementation. For example, in the last few years of last century, when
establishment of a framework of public finance management became the core duty of
deepening fiscal reform, allocation of credit was made accordingly to support capacity
building of MOF and local finance departments. On the other side, the complexity of reform
made passive effect on project implementation. Reform could not be accomplished in an
action. A lot of investigations and discussions work needed to be done before issuing a reform
measure. Project implementation had to be postponed for more time was required for some
subproject to conduct more investigations and discussions.


8.4 During project implementation, natural and man-made disasters that made largest effect on
project implementation and outcomes were Asian Financial Crisis, 911 Disaster and SARS
Epidemic Situation. Generally, the effect of such disasters is passive, which was an important
reason for delay of project implementation. After Asian Financial Crisis happened, the Chinese
Government duly undertook necessary policy measures to keep steady economic growth.
During the period of solving problems brought by the crisis, adjustments had to be made on
general and specific working plans developed originally, so that adjustments had to made
accordingly on the implementation plans of some subprojects. Aft 911 Disaster happened, for
more attentions to safety and anti-terrorism, a lot of international consultants could not visit
China to provide their services, and a lot of domestic policy researchers and developer could
not go abroad for study tour and training, which heavily effect on project implementation. The
same effect made after SARS Epidemic Situation happened. Certainly, happening of disasters
always meant beginning of renovation, which accordingly might cause new demands of credit
allocation.

8.5 Reorganization and staff adjustment happened on both World Bank side and Chinese side.
Basically, the effect of World Bank's reorganization and staff adjustment was passive. During
project implementation, the task team leader of the project was changed for four times. Such a
situation made it impossible for the task team leader to provide consistent and continuous
guidance and supervision to project implementation. Worse effect made due to change of
subproject manager. The most typical case was Perfecting Wuhan City's Overall Plan of SOE



                                            - 40 -

Reform. The subproject implementation agency had to withdraw the subproject for much
low-efficiency and long-time reviewing caused by highly frequent change of subproject
manager in a short period. The effect of MOF and subproject implementation agencies'
reorganization and staff adjustment had positive and passive effects. From the positive side,
the goal of reorganization and staff adjustment is transition of government functions,
optimization of staff structure and improvement of management efficiency, which was
consistent with the project objective, so concerned actions conducted could promote project
implementation, and mutually, project implementation could support such actions. Meanwhile,
the direct result of reorganization and staff adjustment was to reduce the quantity of staff and
institutions, so that a steady project coordination and subproject implementation team could
not be maintained, heavily effecting on the quality and progress of project implementation.
Such an effect is passive. From this side, reorganization and staff adjustment was an important
reason for delay of project implementation.

9. Sustainability

9.1 The sustainability of CRISP is good. Firstly, the Chinese Government considers reform
and opening up to the outside world as one of the 3 historic huge changes taken place in the
development process of China since 1 century ago. The Chinese Government clearly put
forward that, combining socialism with market economy, needs deepening reform and
enlarging opening up. Therefore, the demand of cooperation with World Bank on reform and
institutional development is continuous and steady. In 1999, World Bank approved Fourth
Technical Cooperation Project of which the objective and design are same as that of Third
Technical Cooperation Credit Project. Up to now, most of credit under Fourth Technical
Cooperation Project has been allocated to support 30 reform and institutional development
subprojects in the fields of macro-economic management, regional economic development,
urban development, agriculture and rural area development, disaster prevention and reduction,
human resources development, power sector regulation, oil and gas sector regulation, fiscal
and taxation system reform, financial system reform, comprehensive transportation system
reform, road maintenance system reform, informatization, environmental protection, tourism
development, high-tech industry development and high education development, and 2
pre-investment subprojects related to urban metro construction and express way construction.
In addition, MOF and World Bank are preparing Fifth Technical Cooperation Project, of
which a co-financer is proposed to be DFID.

9.2 Secondly, designing the project to be umbrella project in form enables MOF and the
subproject implementation agencies have strong ownership in ascertaining subproject
objectives and contents, so that the subproject outputs can meet well the need of factual work,
and produce continuous impacts in a certain period. For example, during the implementation
of Strengthening China's Capability of Macro-economic Analyzing and Forecasting
Subproject, Institute of Quantative Economy and Technical Economy of CASS set up a
mechanism of regularly releasing macro-economic analyzing and forecasting reports, and
made the reports become an important and authoritative resources for concerned government
agencies, enterprises and international economic society to learn the economic development
trends of China. Afterwards, some other economic research institutes set up similar



                                            - 41 -

mechanism of regularly releasing reports focusing on other topics, very helpful for expanding
the channel of macro-economic information transmission and exchange, In 1999, MOF and
World Bank provided further support under Fourth Technical Cooperation Project to the
institute for updating the analyzing and forecasting model system. In 2003, under Fourth
Technical Cooperation Project, MOF and World Bank provided another support to Institute
of Rural Economy of CAAS to set up 9 mathematic models for agricultural and rural
economic analyzing and forecasting, in order to improve China's policy support system for
agriculture sector.

9.3 Thirdly, key economic management sectors strengthened their capacity and meanwhile
obtained very valuable experiences from experiment, which played a solid institutional
foundation for future reform. The most typical case is Perfecting China's Recruitment and
Social Security Management Information System Subproject. In 2002, under the subproject,
Information Center of MLSS completed the development of concerned system management
regulations and standards, as well as network scanning software, and conducted concerned
experiment operations in Tianjin Municipality and Liaoning Province. By the end of
November, 2003, utilization of the network scanning software had been extended to other 10
provinces, and inter-linking between the above-mentioned 12 provinces had been realized. In
2003, MLSS circulated a notice on construction of social security information system,
requiring the national uniform standards should be followed. According to concerned plans,
from 2004, other 20 provinces will gradually realize their network linking with MLSS, and the
scope of application will be expanded.

9.4 Fourthly, comprehensive quality and professional skills of the staffs related to reform
policy and development measure research, development, dissemination and implementation
were improved roundly and quickly, which played a solid talent foundation for future reform.
During the implementation of Reforming China's National Economic Auditing System and
Statistic Methods Subproject, totally 40 staffs of State Administration of Statistics and 2 staffs
of concerned provincial statistics bureaus were arranged to accept training on national
economic auditing and statistic methods in concerned government agencies and universities in
USA, Italia, France and Canada. All them returned China after completion of their training,
and most of them have been sent to higher positions and played more important roles. During
the implementation of Strengthening the Capacity of MOF Subproject, more than 80 staffs
were arranged to study on public administration, business administration, economic
management, trade and finance, information technology, economics, accounting, law,
taxation, insurance, and etc. in concerned institutions and universities in USA, UK, Germany,
Japan, Australia, Canada, Russia, and etc. All of them returned China after completion of their
study. Some of them have been sent to higher positions in MOF, and some of them to other
ministries and institutions to undertake more challenging duties. In the process of realization
of successful transition from MPS to SNA, and successful finalization positive finance policy
measures, they play a good role.

10. World Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Generally, World Bank performance during project implementation is satisfactory. They



                                           - 42 -

evaluated project and subproject objective based on the Chinese Government's real need for
deepening reform and enlarging opening up, and designed a simple but effective procedure to
review subproject proposals, in order to increase the efficiency of project management. They
regularly supervised the situations of project implementation, fully considered the comments
and suggestions put forward by Chinese side, guided them to solve problems happened.
Meanwhile, they gave full use any possible methods and opportunity, such as subproject
launching workshop, training course, round-table discussion, telephone dialogue, to train the
project coordination and subproject implementation staffs on Chinese side on project
management, procurement and disbursement, in order to assure the quality of project
implementation. The shortage on World Bank side was that, they could not positively provide
more high-quality proposals for utilization of the unallocated credit, and they could not assure
the stability of the task team leader and subproject managers, to lower the possibility of delay
of project implementation.

10.2 Generally, MOF performance as the central project coordination unit during project
implementation is satisfactory. The ascertained the principles and emphases of utilizing the
allocated credit according to the Chinese Government's overall requirements for deepening
reform and enlarging opening up at different stages, introduced the nature, characteristics of
technical cooperation project to concerned government agencies and institutions, guided them
to prepare subproject proposal, reviewed and discussed with World Bank about those
proposals, guided subproject implementation agencies to handle procurement and
disbursement formalities, managed the special account and accept auditing, organized project
supervision with World Bank and prepared concerned project implementation plans and
project progress reports. Even though the closing date of the project were extended for 4
times, the reasons for extension were understandable, and the results of extension were suited
for general requirements of World Bank and the Chinese Government. Supervision and
auditing results showed that, project contents kept close line with project objective, the
quality of project implementation was guaranteed, project impacts were good. The shortage
on MOF side was that, they could not assure the stability of project coordination and
management staffs, to lower the possibility of delay of project implementation. In addition, the
quantity of project coordination and management staffs was too few to further improve the
quality of project implementation, for many detailed analyzing and monitoring work could not
be normally conducted,

10.3 Generally, subproject implementation agency performance during project implementation
was satisfactory. They prepared and submitted subproject proposals in strict accordance with
the Management Regulations of Third Technical Cooperation Credit Project circulated by
MOF, conducted every activity in strict accordance with contents and objectives specified in
approved subproject proposals, handled procurement and disbursement formalities in strict
accordance with World Bank guidelines and handbooks, duly prepared and submitted
subproject implementation plans and progress reports, accepted concerned supervision and
auditing, undertook necessary measures to enlarge subproject impacts. However, the
performance of each subproject implementation agency is various. The problem of some
subproject implementation agencies was that, staff changes happened very quickly. The
problem of some subproject implementation agencies was that, their understanding of



                                            - 43 -

complexity and renovation of reform was too low. Both of the problems had made passive
effects on project implementation. Besides, most of the subproject implementation agencies
could not give full consideration of training concerned subproject management staffs to
improve their management capability.

11. Experiences Learned

11.1 The success of project implementation is hard-earned for long implementation period and
wide support scope are two obvious characteristics of CRISP. Each subproject is
independent. The main experience learned during project implementation is that, a strong
government support, a reasonable subproject design and a steady team of project management
personnel are 3 footstones for the success.

11.2 No strong government support, no loose macro environment and no active demand for
project implementation. These two aspects are very critical for a highly flexible project
implementation. It is same for implementing Four Technical Cooperation Project and
preparing Fifth Technical Cooperation Project.

11.3 A reasonable subproject design shall include an innovative and clear subproject objective,
and an operational subproject implementation plan. Deepening reform and enlarging opening
up is a dynamic process, if the subproject objective lacks innovation and clarity, as the direct
result, the subproject outputs will lose the meanings of direction and demonstration.
Meanwhile, deepening reform and enlarging opening up is a complex process, if the
subproject implementation is non-operational, as the direct result, the subproject output will
be unmarketable.

11.4 A steady team of project management personnel can to largest extent guarantee the
innovation of project implementation. It has been testified by practice that, innovation is the
soul of technical assistance. The core contents of technical assistance are to analyze new
development situations, summarize up new development experiences, probe into new
development ways, set up new development mechanism, develop new development tools,
solve new development problems.        However, innovation is not innate. It is the rime of
long-term hard work and intelligence. Therefore, quick staff change will always heavily effect
on the quality and efficiency of project and subproject implementation.




                                            - 44 -

- 45 -

