Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11419
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
'MICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2191-ME)
DECEMBER 10, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit
Mexican Peso (Mex$)
Currency Exchange Rates during Implementation:
(yearly averages)
(Note All USS values in this report should be
understood as USS equivalents.)
Year                        Mex$/US$
1979 (SAR)                   22.50
1980                         23.01
1981                         24.48
1982                         48.01
1983                         120.06
1984                         167.64
1985                         228.11
1986                         575.40
1987                        1353.70
1988                        2281.00
1989                        2464.00
1990                        2821.00
1991                        2950.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 10, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mexico
San Fernando Rainfed Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 2191-ME)
Attac(hed, for information, is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion
Report on Mexico - San Fernando Rainfed Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2191 -ME)"
prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
The objective of this project was to increase agriculture production through new
drainage and land reclamation. Completion levels for project components was over 95% and
expansion of the cultivated area (about 0.4 million ha) was very close to plans. The project
is having a significant impact on the commercial, social and natural environment of the region.
The project was completed well below cost because of overestimation of unit prices, Mexican
Peso devaluation and private sector implementation of several components included in the
original design. The reestimated rate of return (24%) exceeds appraisal level (18%). Thus,
the project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory.
For the sustainability of the project to be fully assured there is a need for less
dependence on sorghum and for alternative crop mixes to be developed through research.
Continued maintenance of the infrastructure, and further expansion of agribusiness in the area
will also be required.
The PCR is of high quality.   An immediate audit is not planned. When the
follow-on San Fernando II is completed, both projects may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ANDSA             -      National Agency for Storage Facilities
BANRURAL          -      National Bank for Rural Credit
CIAGON            -      Agricultural Research Center for the Northeast Region
CNA               -      National Water Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del Agua)
CONASUPO          -      National Marketing Corporation for Basic Foodu
DT                -      Distrito de Temporal (Rainfed District)
FICAR             -      Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated Areas
FIRA              -      Agriculture Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
GOM               -      Government of Mexico
INIFAP            -     National Institute for Forestry, Crop and Livestock
Research
ICRISAT           -      International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-
Arid Tropics
M&E               -      Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFINSA           -      Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PCR               -      Project Completion Report
PLANAT            -      National Plan for Rainfed Agricultural Development
PROCATI           -      Producer Organization, Training, Extension and
Research Project
PRODERITH         -      Program for Development of the Humid Tropics
SAP               -      Special Assistance Program
SAR               -      Staff Appraisal Report
SARH              -      Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SPP               -      Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
USDA/SCS          -      United States Department of Agriculture -- Soil
Conservation Service
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2191-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .                     .........................................................................                                                                           i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY                   ..............................................................                                                                         iii
PART   I:          PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM   THE   BANK'S   PERSPECTIVE                                      ...........................                                            1
1.    Project  Identity                   ...............................................                                                                1
2.     Project   Background                   .............................................                                                              1
3.     Project   Objective   and  Description                              ..............................                                                1
4.     Project   Design   and  Organization                             ................................                                                 2
5.     Project   Implementation                       .........................................                                                          4
6.     Project   Results                 ................................................                                                                7
7.     Project   Sustainability                       .........................................                                                         8
8.     Bank  Performance                   ...............................................                                                               9
9.     Borrower   Performance                     ...........................................                                                          11
10.      Project   Relationship                     ...........................................                                                         12
11.      Consulting   Services                    ............................................                                                          12
12.      Project   Documentation  and  Data                            .................... .                  .      ............                      13
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  .........................                                                                                           15
1.     Introduction                ...................................................                                                                 15
2.    Bank  Performance                   ...............................................                                                              15
3.     Government   Performance                       .........................................                                                       15
4.    Results   Achieved                  ...............................................                                                              16
5.    Recomnendations   and  Lessons   Learned   .............................                                                                         17
PART   III:          STATISTICAL   INFORMATION   .  .  .  .........................................                                                                             19
Table   1:         Related   Bank  Loans                  .......................................                                                      20
Table   2:         Project   Timetable                  ........................................                                                       21
Table   3:         Loan  Credit   Disbursements                         ................................                                               23
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ............                                                                      23
B.   Annual   Financed   Expenditures                           ............................                                       24
C. Cumulative Financed Expenditures by
Investment   Category   ..................................                                                              25
Table   4:         Project   Costs   and  Financing                        ...............................                                             27
A.   Project  Costs                ..........................................                                                      27
B.   Project  Financing                   ......................................                                                   28
C.  Main   Project   Cost   Figures                       ..............................                                           29
Table   5:         Project   Results                ...........................................                                                        31
A.   Direct   Benefits                 ........................................                                                    31
B.   Agricultural   Production   Benefits                               .......................                                    32
C.   Support   Data   for  Benefit   Stream                           ........................                                     33
D.   Economic  Analysis                   ......................................                                                   34
E.   Financial  Analysis                    .....................................                                                  35
F.  Internal  Rate  of  Return                        ................................                                             36
Table   6:         Status   of  Legal  Covenants   ..................................                                                                  37
Table   7:         Use  of  Staff   Resources                     ....................................                                                 38
A.   Staff   Inputs              ...........................................                                                        38
B.   Missions            ...............................................                                                            39
Table   8:         Land   Tenure   Status   and  Use   .................................                                                               40
A.     Land   Tenure  Area                 ......................................                                                   40
B.    Land   Tenure   by  Families                      ...............................                                            42
C.     Land   Use   Pattern                ......................................                                                  43
Table   9:         Studies           ...................................................                                                               45
IBRD 16100






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2191-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the San Fernando
Rainfed Agricultural Development Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2191-ME in
the amount of US$138.4 million equivalent was approved on September 5, 1982.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1990, two years behind schedule. Only
US$22.6 million of the loan was disbursed and the last disbursement was on
December 1, 1986 to the Special Account; US$115.8 million was canceled by the
Borrower.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division, Country Department II, of the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a Bank mission in May
1991, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan.
Guarantee, and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2191-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.          The project was:  (a) to increase productivity and crop production
(primarily sorghum) on about 240,000 ha already cultivated and (b) to expand
sorghum production on an additional uncultivated 164,000 ha. The
implementation was scheduled to be carried out over a six-year term. It would
benefit some 17,000 families, including 8,200 families that would be settled
under the agrarian reform program. The incremental production of sorghum
(estimated at about 544,000 tons) would be equivalent to 20% of national
imports at appraisal (paras. 3.1-3.2).
Implementation Experience
2.          Despite several reorganizations of SARH (Secretariat of
Agriculture and Water Resources) during project implementation, construction
of infrastructure (drains, roads, buildings) was not adversely affected.
Responsibility for operation and maintenance of the works and support services
for agricultural development, which initially was with the San Fernando
Rainfed District, was transferred in 1985 to three Districts of Rural
Development. The division of these responsibilities among three districts
made coordination more difficult, and it had the effect of weakening the
administration of operation and maintenance and technical assistance to
farmers.
3.          On the whole, the project was successfully implemented (paras.
5.11-5.12). The principal variance between planned and actual execution was
that the project was completed at a cost underrun of 60% in dollar terms
(Table 4.A). Reasons for this underrun include: (a) devaluation of the local
currency well above levels of inflation; (b) overestimation of unit costs for
civil works; (c) decreases in the quantity of works required to achieve
objectives, especially in land clearing (which was done by property holders
prior to expropriation); (d) keen competition among contractors; and
(e) partial implementation of construction components because of budget
constraints; and (f) the completion of a significant part of project works
prior to effectiveness and their non-coverage by retroactive financing. These
factors led to two loan cancellations -- US$90 million in January 1985 and
US$26 million two years later, totalling 83.6% of the loan (Table 4.B).
4.          Despite some budget constraints, implementation generally was on
schedule up to late-1987, at which time completion levels were 97% for drains,
93% for roads, and 98% for agriculture developments. A nationwide Government
freeze on investments prevented completion on schedule by end-1988. Two



- iv -
additional years were required. Technical assistance and training of farmers
was implemented satisfactorily within the constraints imposed by budget
limitations and a freeze on hiring technicians.
5.          Land resettlement was achieved for 4,051 new farm families, about
one-half of the original target, mainly due to a reduction in expropriated
land of private owners (para. 5.4, Tables 8.A and 8.B). This reduced
achievement was due to the fact that under Mexican law, the previous owner
could hold up to 200 ha for rainfed purposes for himself and, prior to
expropriation, would also transfer 200 ha for each family member; this was
recognized by the preparation team although its consequences were not.
6.          Sorghum completely overshadowed all other crops ranging from 95%
to 98% of total area planted between 1980 and 1990 compared to 80% planned.
Small amounts of maize and beans completed the cropping pattern. With the
declining profitability of sorghum, a significant amount of cotton appeared in
1991, and winter wheat has also been introduced on a small scale. The
Government financed the construction of nine grain collection and storage
centers (270,000 tons total capacity), although these were not funded by the
loan. In addition, the private sector has built many small storage facilities
in the project area.
Results
7.          The project achieved its objective of increasing crop productivity
and production (mainly sorghum) in an area of some 486,000 ha gross. The
project reclaimed an additional 150,896 ha for crop production (164,500 ha
planned) bringing the total cultivated area to 396.696 ha (404,500 ha planned)
and provided drainage on 358,000 ha (366,000 ha planned) (para. 6.1. Table
5.A).
8.          Sorghum production was characterized by extreme annual variations
due to erratic fluctuations in crop yield in response to rainfall, and so did
not follow a rising yield curve beginning with 2.0 t/ha and reaching 3.6 t/ha
at full development as forecast by appraisal. The actual levels of sorghum
production were satisfactory but were generally lower than those estimated by
appraisal (para. 6.2, Table 5.B).
9.          The economic rate of return for the project was calculated by the
Bank was about 23.9% compared to the SAR estimate of 182. A later exercise
done by CNA on its ex-post evaluation (with additional cost items not included
in the Bank SAR) estimated the ERR as 17.4% (Table 5F).
10.         The project has had a significant impact on the commercial, social
and natural environment in its area of influence including through: (a) all-
weather roads facilitating harvesting, transportation, and growth and welfare
of rural settlements; (b) drainage systems alleviating flash flooding of
settlements and fields and reducing soil salinity build-up; and (c) project
organization and settlements providing a stimulus to the organization of



producer associations among the eiidatariosV and also to the private sector
in grain storage and inputs supply (paras. 6.3-6.5).
Sustainability
11.         The sustainability of an acceptable level of net benefits will
depend upon: (a) less dependence on the monoculture of sorghum; (b) adequate
maintenance of infrastructure; (c) expansion of wind breaks and stabilizing
dunes to minimize wind erosion; (d) the strengthening of adaptive research and
demonstrations of alternative crop mixes and cultural practices to trap and
conserve soil moisture; and (e) the expansion of agricultural processing
activities (see paras. 7.1-7.6).
12.         The profitability of sorghum has declined due to a dispropor-
tionate rise in the cost of production compared to the value of the crop.
Producers and researchers are addressing this problem through the introduction
of crops such as cotton and winter wheat. The recent procurement by the
National Water Commission (CNA), with Bank financing, of much needed addi-
tional equipment should enhance the maintenance of the project's infrastruc-
ture, as well as the newly created "Gerencia" for Drainage Districts in CNA to
implement the explicit policy of transferring responsibility for maintenance
to the beneficiaries of the works. Additional wind breaks are being estab-
lished with seedlings through a cooperative program between SARH, the State
Government, and the producers (ejido associations).
13.         Businesses related to sorghum value-added activities have begun to
emerge in the project area, principally private storage facilities and more
recently, poultry raising. There is a real challenge for the local
agricultural research station to intensify activities related to alternative
crops, low-input farming systems, and soil moisture conserving practices.
Promising results need to be demonstrated, in collaboration with the extension
service, on a large field-scale basis to convince producers of their merit.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
14.         The main lessons learned from the project of relevance to such
projects in the future include the need for: (a) more conservative
hydrological design criteria for sizing of surface-storm drains in the Gulf
area; (b) comprehensive environmental assessment during project preparation,
and its subsequent monitoring; (c) giving priority to reserving land for
firewood production in land clearing project. where fuel wood is scarce;
(d) giving attention to operation and maintenance of infrastructure by
assuring that the organization responsible for it would be strengthened in the
capacity and skills to do the task; (e) in infrastructure projects with
agriculture support service components, exploring with the Borrower a
mechanism for assuring that loan disbursements against a particular category
are reflected in the amount and timeliness of counterpart funds for that
category; (f) closer attention to an assessment on the risk of droughts in
" Elidatario -   small farmer, member of an eiido, entitled to use a plot of
land of a certain ejido.
Eiido -       settlement of small farmers in public lands expropriated
under the agrarian reform.



- vi -
rainfed projects, including the desirability on focussing on high-potential
areas within a large project area; (g) exploring the risk implications of
having large rainfed projects concentrate on a single-crop; (h) more attention
to establishing accurate yield and cost estimates; (i) establishing users'
organization as a priority from the beginning of a project; (j) careful
evaluation of the likely actual implementation of land reform/titling
legislation; and (k) identifying potential problems in utilizing retroactive
financing (para. 8.4).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identitv
Project Name:  San Fernando Rainfed Agricultural Development Project
Loan No.:       2191-ME
RVP Unit:      Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:       Mexico
Sector:        Agriculture
Subsector:     Drainage - Rural Development
2. Proiect Background
2.1         Sector Development Obiective:  The objective was to accelerate
agriculture production in semi-arid rainfed areas in the northern part of
Tamaulipas State which has a large potential area for cultivation, estimated
at about 1.0 million ha. Much of the area was either idle or used for
extensive grazing. The project was considered to be a large-scale pilot
project representative of rainfed areas that had not benefitted from adequate
investment and which had replication possibilities in Tamaulipas and the
neighboring state of Nuevo Leon.
2.2         Policy Context:  The project marked the beginning of a shift in
development strategy away from costly large-scale irrigation schemes towards
the adoption of measures for promotion of rainfed agriculture. Production
measures were to be achieved by the expansion of cropped areas and by enhanced
productivity of rainfed lands through application of improved technology
supported by applied research, extension services, and implementation of storm
surface drainage, road networks, and grain storage facilities.
2.3         Linkage between Project, Sector and Macropolicy Objectives:  The
project was the second loan made exclusively for rainfed agricultural areas
(the first being for tropical areas) and was in line with Government's
increased emphasis on improving the productivity of farmers in such areas.
Specifically, the project was closely linked to the Government's policy of
encouraging sorghum production, imports of which had risen from 10,900 tons in
1970 to 2.3 million tons in 1980. The project area was identified as an area
with comparative advantages for sorghum production.
3. Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.1         Proiect Obiectives:  The project was:  (a) to increase
productivity and crop production (primarily sorghum) on about 240,000 ha
already cultivated; and (b) to expand sorghum production on an additional
164,000 ha previously uncultivated. Implementation was to be over a six-year
term. It would benefit some 17,000 families, including 8,200 families that



-2-
would be settled under the agrarian reform program. The incremental
production of sorghum estimated at about 544,000 tons would be equivalent to
20% of national imports at appraisal time.
3.2         Components:  The project components were:
(a)   land clearing on about 155,000 ha;
(b)   construction of a surface drainage network totalling about 884 km,
together with adiacent gravel--surfaced feeder roads, to drain
about 366,000 ha of which 270,000 ha are low permeability, heavy
soils;
(c)   construction of an additional feeder roads network of 394 km with
adiacent shallow drains to serve about 134,000 ha of medium to
light soils;
(d)   purchase of necessary equipment for maintenance of the drainage
and road networks;
(e)   construction of three operation and maintenance centers, a
training center for new settlers, and an agricultural research
center;
(f)   incremental extension services to reinforce the Rainfed District
of San Fernando, including training middle-level specialists and
extension agents; and
(g)   execution of two studies, one for grain movement and storage and
the other for the feasibility to expand a second-stage rainfed
development project in an area south of San Fernando ("San
Fernando II").
4. Prolect Design and Organization
4.1         The conceptual foundation of the project was sound.  Sorghum, the
main crop, is well adapted to the relatively low rainfall (averaging 438-
648 mm annually) in the project area. Nevertheless, some constraints to
production were identified that the project was designed to overcome such as:
(a) inadequate control of land flooding and soil erosion; (b) lack of suitable
hydraulic infrastructure, roads and storage facilities; (c) poor use and
distribution of land holdings; (d) lack of training facilities; and
(e) insufficient technical information and assistance to farmers.
4.2         Initially, the reaction of the private owners of land, which was
destined to be expropriated and to be distributed to new settlers in the ejido
sector, was extremely negative even though the expropriations were in
accordance with existing legislation. Private holdings at the time either
were used for extensive cattle raising or were idle. However, opposition
subsided when in early 1981, agreement was reached on the purchase prices for
different types of expropriated land and land improvements, including higher
compensation for cleared land, which was a stimulus for owners to clear land
prior to expropriation.



-3-
4.3         The project was the first attempt to implement under semi-arid
conditions the Government's then new policy of promoting rainfed agriculture.
Up to that time, the Government's intervention in semi-arid regions was
through irrigation, including the Bajo Rio San Juan and Bajo Rio Bravo
irrigation systems which bordered the project on the north.
4.4         The project was prepared by SARH's Subdirectorate of Programs and
Specific Studies of the Undersecretary of Hydraulic Infrastructure. Recurring
issues during project preparation centered on project size and scope, and the
criteria for project design of drainage and roads. The Bank unsuccessfully
urged the Government to consider a smaller project; SARH felt that this would
create problems in carrying out the land reform program and reduce the
efficiency of the infrastructure works and technical assistance. Also, the
Bank was concerned that the feasibility study was being prepared on the basis
only of a general soil survey (reconnaissance level) which began in 1978.
However, new and more detailed soil and topographical surveys were under
preparation at the time, and it was felt that these and the soil survey that
was completed in June 1981, along with the feasibility study, were a
sufficient basis for project appraisal.
4.5         The project was well prepared with the exception of cost
estimates. There was an overestimation of all civil works costs both in terms
of unit costs and the amount of work required, although at the time a joint
review by Bank and SARH engineers found them to be in line with current
prices. Also, close to one year elapsed between the Bank's two preparation
missions, and final completion of the surveys mentioned above delayed
appraisal until August 1981. Subsequent to appraisal, SARH introduced a major
change in the project as a consequence of deciding to undertake the
development of the project area in stages, concentrating in specific zones
rather than in scattered separate parcels within the total area. This
decision necessitated completion of final designs for specific zones, and a
revision of the implementation schedule and estimated costs, which provoked
further delays.
4.6         The project was organized and managed along the traditional
pattern followed in Mexico at the time. All construction was carried out
under SARH's Undersecretariat for Large-Scale Irrigation. Operation and
maintenance of works and support services for agricultural development were
the responsibility of the San Fernando Rainfed District under SARH's
Directorate for Rainfed Districts. The Secretariat of Agrarian Reform in
collaboration with the Secretariat for Human Settlement and Public Works and
SARH were responsible for the resettlement program. The role of each of the
above agencies was well defined and understood. Nevertheless, early in
project implementation, the Bank recommended that SARH appoint a full-time
coordinator for all aspects of the project because of the large number of
executing agencies and the complex nature of the project. In response, the
Minister of SARH appointed the Delegate of SARH in North Tamaulipas State as
coordinator, which was not as had been originally envisioned, since the
Delegates of SARH are the Secretary's representative in each state and
responsible for all of SARH's actions in the state, and so are not in a
position to coordinate complex projects with other federal agencies.
4.7         The roles and responsibilities of the executing agencies, however,
did experience some variation from the original proposals due to
reorganizations of SARH during implementation. The first project-specific



change occurred when the single San Fernando Rainfed District was split up
into three separate Rainfed Districts, each responsible for operation and
maintenance and technical assistance within its area. Later, in 1985, a major
reorganization of SARH merged the Rainfed Districts and Irrigation Districts
into Districts of Rural Development. As a result, the project area fell
within the jurisdiction of three Rural Development Districts, two of which
also had responsibilities in adjacent irrigation systems. More recently, in
early 1989, the infrastructure branch of SARH was split off into a National
Water Commission (CNA).
4.8         Despite these reorganizations, the definition of roles and
responsibilities of the group in charge of infrastructure construction in the
project continued unaffected during project implementation. One significant
change that has occurred since project completion is that a new Division for
Drainage Districts (Gerencia de Distritos de Drenaje) has been created in CNA.
One of its main responsibilities will be to promote and assist in the
organization of user groups among beneficiaries of hydraulic infrastructure,
with the final objective of these groups assuming responsibility for operation
and maintenance of the works. This is viewed as a positive action.
4.9         Although the reorganization did not alter the roles and
responsibilities of the Districts' participation in the project, the division
of these responsibilities among three Districts made the task of coordination
between the infrastructure group and the support service group more difficult,
as it did the administration of operation and maintenance and technical
assistance.
4.10        In retrospect, the non-vulnerability of the infrastructure
construction group (originally within SARH, later CNA) to the numerous
institutional reorganizations of SARH, along with the associated continuity of
objectives and experienced engineers, can be considered as the main aspect of
project organization that most contributed to its success.
5. Proiect Implementation
5.1         The project was successfully implemented with an economic rate of
return of 23.9Z. The principal variance between planned and actual execution
was that the project was completed at a cost underrun of 60Z in dollar terms.
The greater part of this underrun was caused by devaluations of the local
currency that were well above the levels of inflation, unit costs being
overestimated and implementation of a significant part of the appraised
project prior to effectiveness, and was not subject to retroactive financing.
Other explanations are related to variances in some of the project's
components, as follows.
5.2         During a mid-1984 detailed review of the project, the quantities
of civil works required to achieve the objective within the project area of
some 486,000 ha were updated and amended. Re-estimation of project costs as a
result of reductions in the quantity of some works (particularly, a reduction
in the area that had to be cleared, since large areas were cleared by
landowners on their own account) led to a cancellation of US$90 million from
the loan in January 1985, at which time inclusion of the project in the Bank's
Special Action Program (SAP) with increased disbursement percentages was
accepted.



-5-
5.3         Two years later, a second analysis revealed that the original
infrastructure targets could be achieved at still less cost. The need for the
project to clear land was significantly reduced because many owners cleared
the land themselves prior to expropriation. Competition between contractors
during the slack years of the mid-1980s drove prices still further down.
Also, some planned components of the project were only partially implemented
because of budget constraints. As a result, an additional US$26 million was
canceled in January 1987. The only component with a cost overrun was "rights-
of-way". This component, which was 100% locally-financed, was to cover
indemnification costs for land of private owners needed for construction of
the drains and roads. In actuality, the figure also includes indemnities for
the expropriated land as part of the land resettlement program.
5.4         Actual implementation of land resettlement also varied in that
land was distributed to a fewer number of new settlers (ejidatarios) than
planned. The main reason was that many private owners transferred their
holdings in excess of 200 ha to family members in parcels not exceeding 200 ha
to avoid expropriation, a practice that was legally permitted (see Tables 8A
and 8B).
5.5         The project benefitted from a relatively high priority on the part
of the Government to rainfed prolects during its implementation compared to
other hydraulic infrastructure projects underway in the 1980s. Although the
project was not immune from budget constraints, the rate of implementation was
considered satisfactory and generally on schedule until late 1987. Although
only 3% of the drains and 7% of the roads remaining to be completed at the
time, however, it became apparent that the project could not be completed on
schedule (at the end of 1988) due to the Government's freeze on investment as
part of its stabilization program. Two additional years were required.
Fortunately, the delay did not have a serious effect on the project results
because 98% of the total land destined for agriculture use had been under
production since the mid-1980s and was benefitting from the infrastructure
works by early 1988. Because of the unavoidable delay, the Bank agreed to
extend the loan closing date by two years to December 31, 1990. It is
important to note that even though government and private sector financial
contributions were only about half of the original estimates, and 84% of the
loan was canceled, the project was largely "completed" because of heavy
investment in the "project" prior to loan effectiveness (and not covered by
retroactive financing), and an underestimate of the private sector financial
contribution to ultimate project costs.
5.6         It was anticipated that the cropping pattern would remain
essentially the same as before the project -- sorghum during the main season
and maize and beans in the late season. It was also contemplated that cotton
and sunflower would become more important during the development period. In
actuality, sorghum has completely dominated the cropping pattern ranging from
95% to 98% of the total area planted each year with the remainder being maize
and beans. Although sunflower is well adapted, farmers are not interested in
growing it because of the absence of suitable oil extraction plants in the
area. Interestingly enough, a small amount of cotton began to appear in 1990,
because of the declining profitability of sorghum, and in 1991 it rose
dramatically to an estimated 28,000 ha in the project area, representing about
7% of the total area planted. Another crop that is gaining importance and new
to the area is winter wheat, although lack of seed has been a constraint to
its expansion.



-6-
5.7         Technical assistance was carried out by the technicians assigned
to support centers and field units under each one of the three Districts of
Rural Development in a manner similar to that done throughout the country with
the reorganization of SARH in 1985. The average coverage ratio (cropped area
per technician) at the completion of the project was 6,500 ha. The original
plan was to have a team of one extensionist and two technicians for every
5,000 ha. This density may have been ambitious for an agricultural area with
a relatively simple cropping pattern, and budget constraints and restrictions
on hiring new technicians affected the Districts' programs. On the other
hand, part of the void was filled by extensionists attached to credit
institutions (FIRA), as well as, more recently, private consultant companies
(particularly for cotton). The technical assistance program of the Districts
included: (a) advising producers in production and soil conservation related
matters; (b) training and educating through special courses and mass-media;
(c) field demonstrating and collaborating with research personnel in
validation plots in farmers' fields; and (d) promoting and assisting in the
group organization of producers (ejidatarios). Much of the training was
conducted at the El Chapeno training center in the project area.
5.8         The Government fulfilled its commitment of increasing grain
storage capacity by 270,000 tons through financing the construction of nine
collection and storage centers strategically located throughout the project
area. Their construction was completed in 1986 and placed in the hands of
various ejido associations for operation. The private sector also has been
very active as evidenced by the large number of small collection and storage
facilities either recently constructed or in the process of construction.
5.9         In retrospect, the decision to divide the total project area into
stages of development and to concentrate first in the central portion was a
prudent one. This was the largest area and the one with the highest rainfall
and best soils where most of the drainage works were located and consequently
where the greatest benefits could be expected.
5.10        The prolect risks were correctly identified as institutional,
financial and climatic. In the final analysis, however, these conditions
resulted in limited adverse effects on the project. One additional risk that
will be addressed later in this report is sustainability (see para. 7.1).
5.11        The risk of drought to agriculture in a semi-arid area without
irrigation is unavoidable. Based on weather records, appraisal anticipated a
dry year to occur every five years reducing sorghum yields by 50%. Between
1980 and 1990 there were no complete failures, but there were three dry years
when yields fell below 2 t/ha (1983 with 1.4 t/ha, 1986 with 1.5 t/ha and 1989
with 1.5 t/ha). In addition, in 1983 only 47% of the sorghum planted was
worth harvesting. The average yield for the project in the remaining eight
years was 2.9 t/ha.
5.12        HiRh rainfall incidents in the project area included the Hurricane
Barry (08/28/83 with 225 mm of rainfall in 10 hrs), and waterspouts in
09/12/83 (150 mm during 12 hrs), and 09/04/86 (208 mm during 5 hrs).
Hurricane Gilbert passed through part of the project area on September 16,
1988 registering wind velocities that fluctuated between 220 and 260 km/hr and
total rainfall was 412 mm, both during a period of six hours. Crop losses
were insignificant since the sorghum had already been harvested, sold and
transported out of the area. Damage to infrastructure was estimated at close



-7-
to US$1.0 million. 'These meteorological occurrehces should be taken into
account in the design of the San Fernando II Project.
6. Proiect Results
6.1         The project achieved its objective of increasing crop productivity
and production (mainly sorghum) in the project area of some 486,000 ha gross.
The project reclaimed for crop production an additional 150,896 ha compared to
the planned figure of 164,500 ha. This brought the total area under
cultivation to 396,696 ha compared to the planned 404,500 ha. Drainage was
provided on 358,000 ha versus 366,000 ha planned. These variances are minimal
for a project of this kind, and are due mainly to minor adjustments in design
as a result of actual experience gained during implementation involving some
environmental restrictions to agricultural use of land.
6.2         The levels of sorghum production achieved with the project were
satisfactory but generally inferior to those estimated at appraisal.
Production was characterized by extreme annual variations due to the erratic
fluctuations in crop yield in response to total rainfall and its distribution.
Appraisal saw production estimates on a steadily inclining yield curve,
beginning with 2.0 t/ha prior to the project and reaching 3.8 t/ha on clay
soils, and 3.0 t/ha on loam soils at full development in Year 5. Actual
yields did not follow this systematic pattern, primarily due to the inherent
uncertainty caused by weather in any large scale rainfed area development
project. Between 1980 and 1990, the highest yields were recorded in 1981 (4.3
t/ha), 1982 (3.6 t/ha), and 1985 (3.5 t/ha). The lowest occurred in 1983 (1.4
t/ha), 1986 (1.5 t/ha), and 1989 (1.5 t/ha). These three years were deficient
in rainfall, both in quantities and distribution. Another factor affecting
production was the area (number of hectares) planted to the crop, which also
was slightly less than estimated at appraisal, but the overriding cause of the
variance was productivity (yield) differences due to climate. Due to all of
the above circumstances, the incremental production of sorghum at actual
completion of the infrastructure works (end-1990) was 355,000 tons compared to
appraisal estimate for that time of 557,000 tons: however, the impact of
weather on production is well indicated by the fact that the highest
incremental production between 1980 and 1990 was in fact in 1985 when it
reached 792,000 tons (Table 5.B). In the long-term one would expect the
average production increases of all crops to achieve appraisal targets.
6.3         The project has impacted on many aspects in its area of influence.
The all-weather gravel road network has had a tremendous effect on the
commercial as well as social environment. The roads have facilitated the
transport of necessary agricultural inputs into the area and the transport of
crops produced out of the area. They have positively affected the growth and
welfare of the rural communities, enhancing education and medical services.
Also, in conjunction with the project, the Government financed the
infrastructure for supply of potable water.
6.4         The environment has improved with the project.  The drainage
system has alleviated the flooding of settlements, standing water in fields,
swampy conditions, and soil salinity. A great improvement in health control
of water-related diseases was achieved. A Bank reconnaissance mission sent to
the project area following Hurricane Gilbert confirmed, after interviewing
farmers, that if it had not been for the project's hydraulic infrastructure



works, damage to fields and flooding of settlements would have been much
worse. Greater improvements are needed in controlling wind erosion as
addressed later (para. 7.5). Even with the project, some 13,000 ha of land is
not suited for agriculture or cattle raising with much of it serving as a
natural habitat and refuge for wildlife.
6.5         The increased agricultural activity and resettlement of additional
farm families has been a stimulus for the formal organization of producers'
associations, such as unions of ejidos. These types of associations represent
the first step in promoting participation of the project beneficiaries in
operation and maintenance, facilitating access to credit, and enhancing
efficiency of technical assistance. The private sector has also responded by
taking the initiative in constructing more grain collection and storage
facilities.
6.6         The project's benefits (both quantitative and qualitative) were
achieved at an average cost of US$337/ha considering a total base cost of
US$133.53 million and 396,696 ha of total agricultural land. Average cost per
family was US$8,638. Both average figures are considerably below appraisal
estimates.
6.7         The Bank prepared a final exercise to check the possible ERR for
the project and got a result of 24%, or 6% over the appraisal's projections
(Table SF). CNA also checked the ERR in their draft ex-post evaluation
including additional costs that the Bank did not include like expropriation of
lands, CNA's administrative costs and the grain storage facilities (that the
Bank refused to finance in the Project). CNA's ERR result was 17.4%.
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.1         Sustainability of an acceptable level of net benefits for future
years will depend upon: (a) less dependence on the monoculture of sorghum;
(b) an effective program of adequate maintenance of infrastructure; (c) the
expansion of wind breaks and stabilizing dunes to minimize wind erosion;
(d) alternative crop mixes and cultural practices to trap and conserve soil
moisture; and (e) the expansion of agribusiness in the area.
7.2         Experience in the project has already exposed the high risk of
planting sorghum as a single crop. The profitability of sorghum has declined
in recent years due to the imbalance between the rising cost of production and
the value of the crop. A vivid example is that up to 1983 it took a yield of
just under 1 ton/ha to meet production costs; whereas, since then in most
years it required 2 tons/ha. Already, producers and researchers are
addressing this risk as evidenced by the introduction of alternative crops
such as cotton and wheat in recent years. Adaptive research by the San Juan
Research Center and the transfer of proven technology needs to be accelerated
and demonstrated in order to offer producers viable alternatives to sorghum.
7.3         An area of concern has been a general decline in recent years of
farmers applying the full technical package for sorghum production developed
by the research station and accepted by the district technical committee. The
package includes timing of operations, seed bed preparation, seed variety,
fertilization, cultural practices, and disease and insect control. Part of
the problem has been unfavorable price/cost relationships and the limited



-9-
availability of credit. All farmers use improved seeds but few apply
fertilizers. There is a reluctance to apply fertilizer because of the risk of
insufficient soil moisture to assure a yield response. This problem is
related to soil preparation since the recommended practice of plowing and
subsoiling to enhance the penetration of rainfall is not practiced by many
farmers because their machinery is not in a condition to do these operations,
or either they want to conserve it. Here, again, research must take the lead
in examining low input farming systems along with alternative cropping
patterns and rotation.
7.4         Two recent actions have taken place that should enhance the
maintenance of the project's infrastructure. The first is the recent
procurement by CNA, with Bank financing, of much needed additional equipment,
such as front loaders, drag lines, motor graders and back-hoes. The second is
the newly created Agency for Drainage Districts within CNA to implement the
explicit policy of transferring responsibility for maintenance to the
beneficiaries of the works.
7.5         Wind erosion has been a perennial problem in northern Tamaulipas
State, and with the opening up of new land to agriculture in the project area,
SARH recognized the need for establishing wind breaks. One approach was to
leave natural vegetation belts or strips during the land clearing process.
This was only moderately successful because of difficulty in supervising the
operation and because they were used as a source of scarce firewood by
neighboring families. Attention has turned now to establishing wind breaks
with nursery grown seedlings through a cooperative program between SARH, the
State Government, and the ejido associations. This program currently is being
successfully implemented, and with the participation of the ejidos, the
problem of cutting for fuel wood will diminish.
7.6         There has been, and still is, a pronounced absence of any type of
value-added activity in the project area. It has been solely a producer of
raw material (grain sorghum) that is sold in the project area and transported
to other parts of the country where it is converted to animal products (pork
and poultry). A major importer is the Monterrey area in the neighboring State
of Nuevo Leon. Efforts to combine poultry raising with the collection and
storage centers constructed by the Government and operated by the ejidos has
proven unsuccessful. The main reason has been inadequate technical expertise
and entrepreneurship capability on the part of the ejido associations. There
is indication that this situation is improving since there is a growing number
of examples where private entrepreneurs from outside the area are coming in
and forming business partnerships with the ejidos for poultry production.
8. Bank Performance
8.1         The main strengths of the Bank were: (a) responsiveness to the
Government's shift in policy towards rainfed agriculture; (b) greater
involvement in project preparation; (c) early detection in project
implementation of cost savings and support of actions to revise the project
and to accelerate disbursements; and (d) immediate response to Government's
request for assessment of damage caused by Hurricane Gilbert and financing for
rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure works. A major weakness, which is
shared by the Borrower, was the excessive time needed to complete the early
stages of the project cycle -- 30 months from the Bank's first preparation



- 10 -
mission (12/79) to the completion of appraisal (second post-appraisal in
5/82), plus an additional eight months to project effectiveness. During this
entire period, due to Government's high priority, SARH was implementing the
project and had invested about US$60.0 million for civil works, studies and
equipment, plus another US$30.0 million for indemnification. However, in line
with the SAR recommendations, only US$5.0 million was approved for Bank
retroactive financing from September 1, 1981, from a loan amount of US$138.4
million, i.e., much less than the 10% allowed under Bank guidelines.
8.2         With the exception of the handling of cost estimates, the Bank's
input for appraisal was generally appropriate. Either through Bank staff or
consultants, the areas of engineering, agriculture, economics and financial
analysis were generally adequately covered. Appraisal dealt effectively with
assessing the project's multiple components. However, a main shortcoming was
that the unit costs for all types of civil works were overestimated, resulting
in inflated project costs.
8.3         Supervision by the Bank was appropriately staffed and timely.
Supervision by the Bank's engineer was very intense in the beginning -- three
missions during 1983. Between 1984 and 1986, an agriculturalist and economist
joined the engineer on missions about every six months. From 1987 onwards,
missions were less frequent because of the advanced stage of project
completion and Government restrictions on investments beyond the control of
SARH.
8.4         Lessons for future Bank-financed rainfed infrastructure proiects
are of the need for: (a) more conservative criteria for project design for
sizing the storm drain canals capacity (in the Gulf area), which means design
flood from 10 years and 24 hour duration instead of 7 years and 24 hours. The
experience during implementation (Barry and Gilbert Hurricanes and two other
heavy waterspouts--see para. 5.12), demonstrated that the system should be
sized with more capacity. To construct the drains with double capacity would
reflect only 13Z additional costs in the drainage system which was about 8% of
the total project cost. This will be very important for the planned San
Fernando II project. The future maintenance cleaning of the drains through
drag lines and hydraulic excavators should be designed to add additional
needed capacity; (b) comprehensive environmental assessment during project
preparation and further monitoring, which in this case would have identified
the need to control wind erosion, an aspect which SARH recognized during
project implementation; (c) provision for reserving land for firewood
production in land clearing projects in environments where fuel wood is scarce
and where it is needed by rural families; (d) closer attention to operation
and maintenance of infrastructure once completed by assuring that the
organization responsible for it actually has the capacity to do the task;
(e) in infrastructure projects with agriculture support service components,
exploring with the Borrower a mechanism for assuring that loan disbursements
against a particular category are reflected in the amount and timeliness of
_ounterpart funds for that category; (f) closer attention to an assessment on
the risk of droughts in rainfed projects, including the desirability of
focussing on high-potential areas within a large project area -- San Fernando
experience is that consistently increasing production is difficult to achieve
due to the effect of a severe drought at least each year out of five;
(g) assessing the risk implications of having huge projects like San Fernando
concentrate on a single-crop; (h) more attention to establishing accurate
yield and cost estimates; (i) establishing users' organization as a priority



- 11 -
from the beginning of a project; (j) careful evaluation of the likely actual
implementation of land reform/titling legislation; and (k) identifying
potential problems in utilizing retroactive financing.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1         The main strength of the Borrower's performance was SARH's and
CNA's solid construction expertise for implementing the project, which was a
reflection of many years of experience with infrastructure projects, and the
continuity of this expertise despite institutional reorganizations and
changes. Implementation was done economically and generally on schedule, at
least until late in project implementation when the Government imposed
investment restrictions.
9.2         The excessive time lag during project preparation could have been
reduced if SARH had contracted out the work of completing the detailed surveys
that the Bank required rather than continuing them by administration. Also,
it was unfortunate that SARH could not agree to the Bank's urging for a
project of smaller size during the preparation process rather than having made
this decision subsequent to appraisal when it decided to phase project
implementation differently in stages. This provoked further delays.
9.3         Project management responsible for implementing the infrastructure
component was effective. It was less effective in the timely purchase of the
necessary equipment for operation and maintenance -- the most significant
procurement taking place at project completion. Project management by the
districts for operation and maintenance was less effective, mainly because
those assigned to this responsibility did not receive sufficient budget,
equipment and human resources to enhance their capacity to carry out this
function. Management by the districts of support services such as technical
assistance and training was satisfactory, given the need to readjust to
organizational changes and budget limitations for personnel and vehicles.
Research management was responsive to the needs of the project. The San Juan
Research Center (CIAGON) expanded its research program to include activities
relevant to rainfed agriculture, although it was founded originally to serve
irrigated agriculture. It developed a modest substation at El Canelo for this
purpose.
9.4         In line with experience elsewhere in Mexico with public drainage
and road systems, CNA management was not able to achieve cost recovery for
operation and maintenance, although a socio-economic study of the project's
beneficiaries was completed in 1986 to serve as its basis. Moreover, a



- 12 -
consensus supported by the recently approved Irrigation and Drainage Project
is growing in Mexico which, with the intervention of the newly created Agency
for Drainage Districts in CNA, should soon achieve a cost recovery. Also, the
irrigation and drainage time-slice operation recently prepared by CNA, with
Bank collaboration, addresses the issue of cost recovery of operation and
maintenance of hydraulic infrastructure schemes on a national scale.
9.5         The Borrower was only moderately successful in improving loan
disbursements for eligible expenditures in research, training and technical
assistance, upon urging by the Bank, when it became apparent that expenditures
in these components were not reflected in disbursements. An attempt was made
to orient and inform the administrators of these programs with the required
internal procedures to expedite disbursements. Similar problems existed in
other Bank-financed hydraulic infrastructure projects. On the other hand, it
must be recognized that there was no incentive at the project level to carry
out the procedures since there was no relation between disbursements and
counterpart funding support for the project.
9.6         Experience with the project has confirmed the importance of not
overestimating the implementation capacity of the local unit responsible for
civil works, including designing, preparing tender documents, contracting and
supervising construction. By altering the implementation schedule on the
basis of stages and zones, the local unit was able to execute the project
successfully. Also, in future projects of this magnitude, an effort should be
made to tender a small number of large contracts instead of many small ones.
This would undoubtedly improve efficiency in the implementation.
9.7         Viewing the project in its entirety, it seems that there was a
tendency for a construction-oriented bias in project design -- a bias not
unique to the San Fernando Project, but also present in other hydraulic
infrastructure projects with agriculture support service components. The
project was an agricultural development project, and more support should have
been directed to the use of the infrastructure.  In this case, the role of the
districts was clear, but unfortunately in times of economic stress there was a
disproportionate share of support in favor of infrastructure over support
services.
10. Prolect Relationship
10.1        Bank-Borrower relationships were very good during project
preparation. There were differences of opinion during negotiation on matters
of substance related to loan size, level of Bank financing and terms for
project lending components, especially grain storage. Relations were good
during project implementation. Borrower relations and field coordination with
project-related executing agencies were normal. Institutional relations do
not appear to have been a major constraint in project execution, even with the
numerous institutional changes that occurred during project implementation.
11. Consulting Services
11.1        Consulting services were used during project preparation and
appraisal especially for engineering and agronomy related components. These
services were satisfactorily performed. During implementation, consultants



- 13 -
were used for two studies: "Movements and Storage of Grains" and "Socio-
economic Survey of the Benefitted Population". The first was received by the
Bank in September 1984 (nine months overdue). The principal recommendation
that was useful to the Borrower was that all nine storage centers (270,000
tons total capacity) should be completed as soon as possible, thereby
providing the impetus to continue with construction (although the Bank did not
agree to finance this).
11.2        Although the socio-economic study, which was received by the Bank
in September 1986 (also nine months overdue), fulfilled its purpose of
establishing a reasonable charge to producers for operation and maintenance of
roads and drains, project authorities were unsuccessful in implementing an
acceptable mechanism to achieve cost recovery. Finally, the Bank urged the
Borrower on many occasions to use consulting services for the preparation of
the San Fernando II Feasibility Study. Only in February of 1991, did the
Borrower communicate to the Bank the beginning of the San Fernando II
Feasibility Study, which would take account of the implementation experience
of the current project and possibly be prepared for Bank financing in the near
future.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1        Legal Documents provided a useful framework for project
implementation. Amendments, introduced during project implementation, were
due to the deteriorating economic situation in the country during the middle
and late 1980s, to the cost underrun of certain construction components, and
to the reduction in drain and land clearing physical targets because of design
updating and some environmental restrictions (i.e., some areas being unsuited
for development, as noted above). These amendments in the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements occurred in 1985, 1987 and 1988. The purpose of these changes was
to adjust the amount of the Loan to the cost underrun and to facilitate
disbursements. Closing date was extended two times from June 30, 1989 to June
30, 1990 and then to December 31, 1990. On balance, the Project seemed to
have a normal number of required amendments which for the most part could not
be easily foreseen during Appraisal, but which had a beneficial effect on
project implementation.
12.2        The Staff Appraisal Report had a great deal of detail and provided
an adequate framework, together with the legal documents, for project
implementation. The only weak point would be the accuracy of the unit costs
for civil works which were overestimated for certain components.
12.3        The Supervision Reports and other relevant documents available in
the Bank provided most of the information necessary for the preparation of the
PCR. However, data related to agricultural production and project benefits
were incomplete and required additional attention during the final combined
supervision/completion mission in June, 1991.



.1



- 15 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Introduction
1.1       On behalf of the Borrower (NAPIN), the Comisi6n Nacional del Agua
(CHA), Subdirecci6n General de Planeaci6n y Finanzas prepared a Project
Completion Report dated September, 1991 and delivered a draft copy to the Bank
by late January 1992. The full report, in Spanish, is in the project files.
It contains a detailed description of the project implementation and of the
Government's view on various aspects of the San Fernando Project. It presents
data on costs, organization, technical assistance, agricultural production,
agroeconomical data, O&M costs and ex-post economic evaluation. This section
contains a summary of this report, focusing on the Government's view and the
conclusions reached regarding its own and the Bank's performance and the
lessons to be learned from the project.
2. Bank Performance
2.1       The Bank performed a regular, timely and satisfactory supervision
role in the Project, following up and reviewing the construction progress and
the implementation of complementary project actions. The supervision
schedules enabled the project unit to: detect completion delays, adjust
schedule deviation, and identify technical deficiencies and its feasible
solutions. This role was always accomplished in coordination with the project
implementation unit with the aim to achieve the original project objectives.
2.2       The final recommendation of the supervision mission for the project
sustainability was related to:
(a) maintenance of roads, drains, and structures;
(b) soil conservation actions including wind brakes;
(c) creation and strengthening of user organizations;
(d) strengthening of environmental monitoring;
(e)  farmer training; and
(f) availability of agricultural credit.
3. Government Performance
3.1       The project was implemented through enhanced rainfed agriculture
with settlements, agrarian reform, roads and drainage networks, in three
contiguous districts totaling a gross area of about 505,000 ha, and envisaging
a total potential development of about 400,000 ha.
3.2       The loan became effective on March 4, 1983 and the project was
planned to be completed on December 31, 1988 (six years); it was extended
twice until December 31, 1990 as a result of some lack of budget funds during
the late 80's, inflation, and the devaluation of the peso in relation to the
dollar. By 1988 the construction components were mostly completed and the



- 16 -
delays were primarily on minor construction components. The agricultural
benefits were always on schedule as a result of an effective answer of the
private sector and beneficiaries.
3.3       Total project investment was MEX$447,170 million (1990 pesos)
equivalent to US$156.9 million, including grainstorage facilities, SARH/CNA
engineering and administration charges and taxes (nine of which were financed
by the Bank). The total amount excluding those figures which were not
financed by the Bank is about US$133 million.
3.4       The project was prepared by SARH's under the responsibility of the
Subdirectorate of Programs and Specific Studies of the Undersecretariat of
Hydraulic Infrastructure.
3.5       The project was designed under the legal framework of:  (i) "Ley de
Fomento Agropecuario" (Federal Law for Agriculture Development); (ii) "Ley de
la Reforma Agraria" (Agrarian Reform Law); and (iii) "Ley Federal de Aguas"
(Federal Water Law). This legal framework permitted the expropriation of
agricultural lands marginally used or used for extensive beef cattle grazing
and set the legal support to create the rainfed drainage districts.
3.6       San Fernando Drainage District was created by Presidential Act on
May 12, 1980 and two days later the private cattle properties with more than
200 ha located inside the District perimeter were considered subject to
expropriation for public utility. This was the first time in Mexico that a
big agrarian reform project was implemented for rainfed agriculture.
4. Results Achieved
4.1       The information gathered in the Bank supervision reports and in the
draft evaluation report from CNA provide a complete and updated picture of the
project's effects and enables the identification of the following results:
4.2       Prolect conception, studies and designs:  The project conceptual
approach was fine to the soil-water-climate relations as well as human
resources and socio-economical environment. The land reform component, land
development as well as the infrastructure constructed and technical assistance
provided, enabled a satisfactory result to the project. It should be noted
some initial basic studies like the original topographical surveys were weak
and had to be repeated to the adequate required level. Some quantities of
drainage works, derived from these initial surveys, proved later to be
exaggerated.
4.3       Construction:  The civil works components were implemented through
contractors. During the implementation period 1981-1990 the project had 272
contracts for construction, supplies and engineering services with 117
companies. The Government considers that this amount of contracts made
supervision more difficult but enabled the participation of small and medium
contractors. Total project construction cost, excluding land expropriations,
taxes and SARH/CNA costs, was much less than the original SAR estimate (about
56% less). This was mainly a consequence of reduction on earth move, length
of roads and drains, number of concrete structures and administrative
buildings, and specially the reduction in land clearing from 155,000 ha to
59,745 ha. The main project construction components were almost completed by
1987 and totally completed in 1990.



- 17 -
4.4       Agricultural Research:  The agricultural research works were
concentrated in sorghum in the areas of density of plants/hectare, fertilizer
levels, soil preparation and conservation, weed control, insect control, and
plant pathology. More recently efforts were dedicated also to crop
diversification by preparing adapted technological packages for wheat, maize,
beans and soybeans.
4.5       Agricultural Technical Assistance:  The project area under
agriculture increased from 130,000 ha in 1981 to 307,000 ha in 1991 at the
same period the number of extension service technicians increased from 30 to
57. Soil conservation, tillage practices, fertilizers, seeding and insect
control and plant pathology have been the main areas.
4.6       Grain Storage Facilities and Mechanization.  A total static
capacity of about 409,000 ton are installed in the project area out of which
270,000 were constructed by the Government (nine plants) under CONASUPO,
BANRURAL and SARH agreement. The project area is fully mechanized. Currently
2,300 heavy tractors and 173 combines privately owned operate in the area.
Contractors settled in the Bajo Bravo Irrigation District provide the gap of
mechanized services.
4.7       The cost-benefit analysis indicates that the project benefit/cost
relation at 12% is about 1.3 and the net present value of benefits is about
MEX$117,664 million (US$392 million). The project EER according to CNA
evaluation is about 17.4%.
4.8       The production volumes in the area increased from 593,000 ton in
1980 to 847,000 ton in 1990 corresponding to an increase in value of about
US$46 million in the annual production, which reflects the increase of 112,000
ha of new areas and the technological improvement. Project sustainability
will depend a great deal on crop diversification, technical assistance and
agricultural research. Cotton and wheat are the crops that require the major
support.
5.  Recommendations and Lessons Learned
5.1       The project achieved most of its objectives despite some delays due
to budget restrictions in the final years. These objectives reflect in the
production increase, equity in land distribution through the agrarian reform,
and the indicators of income and employment between the beneficiaries. In
order to improve the results achieved and ensure sustainability in the future
some recommendations and lessons learned will be useful for this project and
others similar to come:
5.2       Prolect Preparation should include from the beginning adequate
topographical surveys and data for the design of drainage systems. Cost
estimates should be supported by a very consistent unit cost analysis.
5.3       Users organization should be developed from the beginning in order
to take over the responsibilities of operation and maintenance of the
infrastructure.
5.4       The transfer of technology from research to users, specially in the
areas of soil management and soil and moisture conservation needs
strengthening.



- 18 -
5.5       The wind brakes program for protection against wind erosion should
be incentivated with the farmer.
5.6       Environmental monitoring actions in the area should be strengthened
in the areas of erosion, water table levels, salinity in low lands, water
quality and pesticides.
5.7       Agricultural technological packages for crop diversification
adopted to the area should be enhanced and updated especially for wheat,
cotton, soy beans and others.



- 19 -
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION



I



- 20 -
TABLE 1
MEXlCO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
RELATED BANK LOANS
LN.ICR. NUMBER                            TriLE                        . YEARS OF OPERATION
1462-ME 1/         Integrated Rural Development (PIDER II)                 06/16/77-01/31/83
1553-ME 1/        Tropical Agricultural Development (PRODERITH I)          04/27/78-06130/84
1569-ME 1/         VI Agricultural Credit (FIRA)                           05/16/78-06130/82
1891-ME 11         VIl Agricultural Credit (FIRA)                          07/08180-12131/82
1945-ME 1/         Rainfed Agricultural Development Project (PLANAT)       03/02/81-06/30/87
2526-ME 2/         Chiapas Agricultural Development                        04/04186-03131193
2658-ME 2/         Second Tropical Agricultural Development (PRODEFJITH II)  07/08/86-12/31/93
2859-ME 21         Agricultural Extension (PROCATI)                        06/25/87-06/30/92
1/ Projects that preceded SAN FERNANDO.
2/ Projects that followed SAN FERNANDO.



- 21 -
TABLE 2
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
PROJECT TIME TABLE
ITEM            DATE PLANNED    DATE REVISED         DATE ACTUAL
- Preparation 1               12/03/79     ----------------       12/03/79
- Preparatlon 2               10/13/80     ----------------       10113/80
- Appraisal Mission           08/06/81     ----------------       08/06/81
- Loan Negotiations           05125/82     ----------------       05/25182
- Board Approval              06/24/82          07/01/82          07/01/82
- Signature Date              09/05/82     ----------------       09/05/82
- Date of Effectiveness       10/01/82          03/04/83          03/04183
- Closing Date                06/30/89          06/30/90          12/31/90
- Completion Date             12/31/88          06/30/90          12131/90
Source: Divisional Black Books and Project Timetables.
COMMENTS: (lssues raised at each staoe of proiect cycle)
Identification:          Some delays but of minor effect.
Project Preparation 1:   Project scope, agricultural potential, land tenure situation and proposed infrastructure works.
Project Preparation 2:   Justification for extensive drainage and road components and criteria for their engineering
design in the absence of detailed soil and topographical survey information. Need for
technical assistance and support from research.
Pre-appraisal:           Above mentioned issues were resolved with a full feasibility study In hand, Including
a comprehensive soil survey.
Appraisal:               Equate the schedule for land expropriation and distribution with the project
implementation schedule. Policy for grain storage and marketing.
Post - Appraisal 1       Unexpected decision by SARH to change the project by dividing the total area Into three
distinct regions and implementing the project in three phases, each taking about two
and a half years, thus necessiating project revision.
Post - Appraisal 2:      Review of the status of final designs for the first year of project Implementation
which confirmed that they would be ready by Board presentation.
Date of Effectiveness:   The date was revised due to the delays on the full compliance of the deliveries of
final designs and bidding documents. These designs should be reviewed to reduce
quantities of infrastructure works.



MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191 -ME
Prolect Schedule
QUARTER  1121341   234123 4 1    3        1 2 1314 1 21                     2 1334  12 13 14 1 12 13 41 234                          1 12 13 14
YEAR 1 9 7 9 1 9 8 0 1 9 8 1 1 9 8 2 1 9 8 3 1 9 8 4 1 9 8 5 1 9 8 6 1 9 8 7 1 9 8 8 1 9 8 9 1 9 9 0
PREPARATION
APPRAISAL MISSION
LOAN NEGOTIATIOINS
BOARD APPROVAL
SIGNA'TURE DATE
DATE OF EFFECTIVENESS
COMPLETION DATE
CLOSING DATE
YEAR 1 9 7 9 1 9 8 0 1 9 8 1 1 9 8 2 1 9 8 3 1 9 8 4 1 9 8 5 1 9 8 6 1 9 8 7 1 9 8 8 1 9 8 9 1 9 9 0
QUARTER   1 2 1314 1  21314 1 12131411 12314 1 121314 jl12 13 14 1 12 13 14 1 12 13 4 1 12 13 14 1 12 13 14111 EI                  lj 2]13 14
SCHEDULED
ACTUAL



MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
FISCAL YEARS
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988
Appraisal Estimate
Annual                             7.0       8.0     12.0      25.0      30.0      56.4
Cumulative                         7.0      15.0     27.0      52.0      82.0    138.4
Actual Disbursement                2.05      4.92     15.87     21.54    22.63         -
Actual as %of Estimate              29%       33%       59%      41%       28%         -
Date of Final Disbursement:     12/01/86
Amount Cancelled:              US$ 115.775 million
Repayments
(as of 02 30 91)              USS 18.233 million
m
:W



MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
ANNUAL FINANCED EXPENDITURES BY INVESTMENT CATEGORY
(US$ 000)
CALENDAR YEARS
INVESTMENT CATEGORY            1983     1984      1985     1986      1987      1988     1989      1990     1991  TOTAL
1. Civil Works:
(Earthmoving & Building)       1,479     2.950    3.537     1.669      998       392      398    1,884        826   14.134
2. Equipment                         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -     3,348     3.348
3. Technical Assistance,
Tralning and O & M                 -         -       86       338       613      413         -      937       710    3.098
4. Front-end Fee                 2.045                                                                                 2,045
TOTAL CATEGORIES            3.524    2.950    3.623      2.007    1.611      806       398    2.821      4.884   22.625
Source: World Bank Disbursement Department.
NOTE: USS 22.6 million were fully disbursed by 12/01/86. which Include USS 10.7 million drawn by the Borrower on special account
which have been documented against expenditures to 1991.
:>1



MaEXCO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
CUMULATIVE FINANCED EXPENDITURES BY INVESTMENT CATEGORY
(USS 000)
CALENDAR YEARS
1983     1984      1985     1986      1987      1988     1989      1990     1991
1. Civil Works:
(Earthmoving&Building)                  1,479    4.429     7,966    9,635    10,634    11.026    11.424    13,308   14,134
2. Equipment                                 -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -    3,348
3. Tqchnical Assistance,
Training and 0 & M                          -        -        86      424      1,037    1,450     1.450    2,388    3,098
4. Front-end Fee                          2,045    2,045     2.045    2,045     2,045    2,045     2,045     2,045    2.045
TOTUAL CATEGORIES               3,524    6.475    10.097   12,105    13.716   14,522    14.920   17,741    22.625
Source: World Bank Disbursement Department.
NOTE: US$ 22.6 mIllion were fully disbursed by 12/01/86, which Include US$ 10.7 million drawn by the Borrower on special account
which have been documented against expendfures to 1991.
tTl



SAN FERNANDO (LOAN 2191-ME)
CUMULATIVE FINANCED EXPEND. BY CATEGORY
25000 
z
0
F-
Co10000              / 
oF   '   E   ---r-~~~-~  ~-~-~-~ ~ ~   ~   ~---------------------------
1 983   i1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1 991
CALENDAR YEARS
|CMviWork             Eqjipment      ---TechAss.,Tmg6,0&M   Total      
> :
,i M
ci)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
PROJECT COSTS
(In US$ million)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                   ACTUAL COST at bl
INVESI}IENT CATEGORY                         (06/0V82)
LOCAL      FOREIGN      TOTAL       LOCAL       FOREIGN      TOTAL
1. Civil Works (Earthmoving)           90.64        70.82      161.46       67.17       13.10        80.28
2. Civil Works (Buildings)              3.59         0.97        4.56        1.97         0.91        2.88
3. Equipment                             1.61       12.21       13.82        1.38         3.40        4.78                   M
4. Training                             5.11         0.13        5.25        0.25         0.29        0.55
5. Studies                              3.59         0.21        3.79        2.17         0.91        3.08
6. Right-of-Way                         3.45           -         3.45       38.16           -        38.16 c/
7. Operation and Maintenance           36.14         7.64       43.78        1.84         1.95        3.79
TOTAL BASE COST                        144.14       91.98      236.12      112.95        20.58      133.53
Physical Contingencies                21.18       13.87       35.04
Price Contingencies                   47.06       30.45       77.52
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   212.38       136.30      348.68      112.95        20.58      133.53
Front-end Fee                                      2.05        2.05           -         2.05        2.05
Total Financing Required               212.38      138.34      350.72       112.95       22.62      135.57
al Actual costs provided by CNA, in current USS.
b/ Local costs are calculated by subtracting World Bank total actual disbursements from total actual project expenditures.
c/ Figure Includes IndemnificatIon for expropriation of private land for right-of-way and also for land reform and any Improvements
on the land including bush clearing.



MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
PROJECT FINANCING
(In US$ million)
Planned     % of       First       % of      Second      % of        Final      % of
Source                        Loan       Total     Revision     Total     Revision     Total       al        Total    Comments
Agreement  Financing              Financing             Financing              FInancing
_____________________  09/05/82        01/14/85               01/15/87              04/26/91
IBRD
1. Civil Works:
(Earthmoving& Building)           106.0        306        32.4        15         18.1        139       14.1         109
2. Equipment                         14.0         4%        10.3         5           -           _        3.3         29                  X
3. Technical Assistance,
Training and 0 & M                  5.5          26        1.6         1          2.5         26        3.1          2f
4. Front-end Fee                      2.0          1%        2.0         1          2.0         2f        2.0         2f
5. Unallocated                       10.9         3%         2.1         1%          -           -          _                b/ c/
TOTAL IBRD                           138.4        394       48.4        22s        22.6        179       22.6         17f    d/
GOM & BENEFICIARIES                 212.3        61%       170.2        7896      112.9        83%       112.9       839      at
TOTAL FINANCING                     350.7        10z       218.6       1          135.6       10e        135.6       1
a) Final amounts including those documented through the special account.
bl US$ 90 million were cancelled from the Bank loan on 01/14/85.
c/ An additional US$ 25.6 million from the Bank loan were cancelled on 01/15/87.
d/ From the total Bank loan USS 10.7 mililon have been drawn on the special account which have been fully documented as of 04/26/1991.
e/ GOM and Beneficiaries contributions are calculated by subtracting World Bank total actual disbursements Irom actual project expenditures.  t



MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
MAIN PROJECT COSTS FIGURES PROVIDED BY CNA
COMPONENETS                                                        CALENDAR YEARS OF IMPLEMENTATION                                TOTAL
1979     1980     1U91     1982    1983    1984       1965    1916    1907    lo8    1969    1990
1. CMI Worke (Ink. Wicturs) 1i
(000US$)                    219   13,883   2S.912   12,076    5.767    5.970    7,605    3.473    2,066    1.006      666    1,411   60,279
(/la, 5.4Hx$)                 5      319      64S      So0      692    1,03    1,734    1,997    2,Ea       229      2,199    3,99   126M
2. CM Works (Buildings) V
(000 US$)                     -        -        -    2,292       692        -        -        -       -         -        _       -    2,664
(millin, MEXS)                -        -        -       110      71        -        -        -                                          l _  -  _  5I1
3. Equipmsnt 3
(000U S$)                     -        -         -        -        -     693       738       -        -         -     238    3,114    4.763
(eijlwj MEKS)                 -        -        -        -        -      116      16J        -,       -        -      59o    5,am      ,65
4. Trnding
(000 US$)                     -        -                 92       63      72         -       _        _        _        _               547
(dHini11   EX$)               -        -                19       10       12        -        -        -        -        -                41
5. Topograpiml Studies
(000 US$)                   132    2.065      $48       38        _         _        _       _        _         _        _             *.012
(wllin AfEX)                  3       47       21        2        -        -        -        -        -        -        -                73
6. Rigs--Way
(000 US$)                     -        -   22,898    7,292    4,297    1,310    1,946       151      70         -      161       15  3*,159
(mnillion MES)                -        -      52       350      516      220      444       57       95        -      447       42    2.773
7.0&M41
(000 US$)                     -      791    1.246      867       209      149      136      257      152       60      99       25    3,791
OaiIIireEX$)                  -       I5       31       32       25       25       31      145   I J          13      246          
TOTAL
(000 US$)                   351   16,740   50.904   22.75,   10,48    8.193   10.425    3.JU1    2.290    1,065   1,400    4,565  133,525
(milkuMN                     *      355    1,m       1,092    1,314    1,376   2xm       2,2J2    3,101    2429    3,451   12,29   31,997
Exchange Raise: MEX$/US$         23       23       25        46      120      168      228      575    1.354    2,281    2.470    2.832
1ICMI works fnbradructure) Includes land clein, drains, roads. sdnucte. plilines, *ngineering and adminisualUn ces .
2/ CMI works (buNldi) ncludecs oled oflicis. tralning csnter, and rserch enher .
3 Includes repairs of exisng quipment.
40 O  U also Includes matrials and height.
Nate: Figures have ben rounded.



SAN FERNANDO (LOAN 2191-ME)
PROJECT ANNUAL COSTS PROVIDED BY CNA
30,0
25,000F
0    20.000e
0
Co
.d 15.  0-1
o    10.000-- 
5,000                             _
1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
YEAR
Civil Works (Infr.)    Civil Works(Build.) S     Equipment                      |                          -3
|   Training                  Studies          EN  0 & M
rt f)



- 31 -
TABLE SA
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
PROJECT RESULTS: DIRECT BENEFITS
APPRAISAL    REVISED 1/ ACTUAL 2/        ACTUAL
ESTIMATE                                 as% of
INDICATORS                   UNIT 06102182        01/14/85   12131/90      REVISED
LAND CLEARING
Area cleared                 ha    155,000         143,000    132.135  3/        92
INFRASTRUCTURE
Surface drainage             km         884            750       665             89
Area covered by drainage      ha    366,000        366,000   358,000              98
Gravel-surfaced roads         km       1,278           790       785              99
Small hydralic structures    unit        NS  41      2,717      2.702             99
O &Mcenters                  unit         3              3          1            33
Research centers             unit         1              1         1             100
Training centers              unit        1              1          1            100
Graln storage centers         unit       NS              9         9             100
Major bridges                 unit        -              8         8             100
EQUIPMENT
For drains and road maintenance  unit   122             49        39  5/         80
WINDBREAKS                    km
Natural shelter belts        km         NS           1,200     1t200  61         100
Cultivated wind brakes       km                        400       122             31
TRAINING FOR NEW SETTLERS  No.         8,200         4,050      4,050            100
STUDIES
Grain transportation/ storage  unit       1              1         1             100
Socio-economic               unit         1              1         1             100
AREA UNDER PRODUCnON          ha    404,500        404.500   396,696  7/         98
RECLAIMED AREA (NEW)         ha      164,500       164,500    150.896  7/        92
11 After joint Bank-GOM review in 1984 of project components, quantities of work and costs, after which
the project entered the special action program (01/14/85).
21 Final figures of project completion after some adjustments In design as a result of actual experience
gained during implementation.
31 Final fIgure, of which the project cleared 59,735 ha. the private owners about 73,000 ha and natural
vegetation left for soil conservation and environmental reasons.
4/ NS means not specified.
5/ Of which 20 units with bank financing . The missing units are compactors and dump trucks.
6/ Windbreaks Include 1,200 km of natural vegetatlon strips that were left standing after land clearing
and 122 km that have been planted. An additional 278 km are to be planted.
71 Final figures as a consequence of some restrictions imposed by environmental conditions atfecting
agricultural use of land.
Source: Divisional Black Books.



- 32 -
TABLE SB
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTnON BENEFITS
SORGHUM
YIELD              PRODUCTION
(ton/ha)               (tons)
APPRAISAL 1/       ACTUAL   APPRAISAL 11   ACTUAL
Without Project         2.00           2.00        572,528    440,000
1980              -           2.49              -    589,835
1981              _           4.26              -   1,121,107
1982              -           3.58              -    960,666
1983           2.16 2/        1.37        568,324    213,451
1984           2.32           2.31        593,723    688,778
1985           2.76           3.48        675,434   1,232,326
1986           3.23           1.45        808,865    367,801
1987           3.60           2.61        959,601    954,374
1988           3.60           2.30       1,064,024    833,160
1989           3.60           1.52       1,116,816    458,985
1990           3.60           2.27       1,129,216    794,632
1/ Weighted average based on 75% clay soils and 25% loam soils.
2/ Appraisal considered the first project year as t983, however, SARH began
construction In 1979 and continued through 1980-82 with Government
financing as reported In para. 8.1 .



MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
SUPPORT DATA FOR BENEFIT STREAM
H A         PRODUCTION            E A          COST OF PRODUCTION                                          PRODUCTION VALUES
MAIN     A R                                X A                                                                          (US$000)
CROPS    R E                                 C T                         A F
CALENDAR                V A                                H E                         0 A
YEARS OF                E                                  A S    TO THE FARMERS    J C  SOCIAL           GROSS VALUE              NET VALUES              NET INCREMENTAL
OPERATION               S       TOTAL   INCREMENTAL    N                               U T  VALUE                                                           WITH PROJECT
T                       4         G                 .          SO                                                                        U4
E                           F     E                           TR
D               VOLUME   A                                    1                 TO      ADJUSTED TO      TO      ADJUSTED TO       TO      ADJUSTED TO
C                                 E              FARMERS INTERNATIONAL FARMERS INTERNATIONAL FARMERS INTERNATIONAL
T    MEXS                         N                           PRICES                    PRICES                   PRICES
0     PER                         T
(000 ha) (000 tons) (000 tons)   R    U8S   MEXS milln.) (US$ 000)  6/  (USS 000)              7/                       7!                        71
1980 1/ SORGHUM    237         690        40   0.07     23          672    29,204  1.20    35,090    74,370        70,002    45,185          40,900     3,048          2,760
1981 1/ SORGHUM    283        1.121      571   0.51     25        1.028    41.967  1.11    46,503   179.837       141,651   137.809          95.149    70.226         48.465
1082 I/ SORGHUM    268         961       411  0.43      48        1,107    23.087  1.46    33.764    95,606        104,093    72.540         70.330    31,011         30.0e6   w
1983 11 SORGHUM    15         214      (337) (1.68)   120        3.712    30,933  1.19    36,847    20.100        27.484   (10,833)         (9.303)  (10.833)         (9.303)
1984 11 SORGHUM    298         689       139   0.20    1e8       11.134    66,276  1.14    75,354    80.357        81,408    14.082           6,054     2.838           1.220
1985 1 SORGHUM    355        1.232      682   0.55    228       16.677    73,144  1.06    77,679   155,122        126,938    81.978         49.259    45,390         27.274
1986 11 SORGHUM    253         388      (182) (0.50)   575       21,034    37,624  1.20    44,968    28,145        30.312    (9,479)        (14.,54)   (9,479)        (14,654)
1987 11 SORGHUM    365         954       404   0.42   1.354      83,146    61.408  1.42    87,264    79.649        69,445    18.241         (17.818)    7,729          (7,550)
1988 11 SORGHUU    361         833       283   0.34   2,281     144,385    63,290  1.20    75,956    73,661        82,030    10.362           6.081     3,622          2.067
1989 11 SORGHUM    303         459       (91) (0.20)  2.470     180,754    73,002  1.18    86,098    59.320        48,629   (13.683)        (37.460)  (13,683)        (37,469)
1990 11 SORGHUM    350         795       245   0.31   2,832     230.437    81,369  1.00    81,309   101,013        83,901    19,43           2,532     6.047            779
COTTON        NS        NS        NS      -                 NS        NS    -        NS        NS              NS       NS              NS        NS             NS
1901 2/ SORGHUM    342         854       304   0.36   3,000     227,176    76,725  1.00    75.725   118,176        90.173    42,451          14,448    15,111          5,143
COTTON        28        49        49   1.00              42,570    14,190         14,190    29.400         76.031    15,210          81,841    15.210         61.841
WBTOTAL              ::6         - 9.118    2.518                             671,207       : 770.810 1,094.754      1,038,104   423.547        267f*4   166,137          t10,680
1992-95 31 SORGHUM    314         785       235   0.30   3,000     208,927    89,642  1.00    69.642    99,486        82,930    29.844          13,287    8,945           3.982
COTTON        56        97        97   1.00              84,290    28,097         28,097    58.213        150,611    30.117         122,414    30 117         122.414
TOTAL .          _     _4,947    12,456   S,es        : .    .......... ..................  _   ...06i,63  _ 1,106,120 1,10tO297    .    -1,673,948   003761 : 4   -,  8    6 6...6. 23 . WN'876
1/ Reported values orom 1080 until 1990.
2/ Best esdhtate asofJune. 1991.
31 Projection vlueos kt 1992 and *h r.
41 Incremental benelt tream excluded the 550,000 tons o sorghum yearly production without the project.                                                                           H
51 Vale Insdde parentheses are negatIw benefits.                                                                                                                                 >
a/ The correcion fator is based on the subsidies br brtlizers (urea and phosphaet) weighted as 60% of the hiput costs. An average ol both ftetilizers was considewed.
71 International prices usd or theso adjustments re U.S. Gull Port prices lot orghum and U.S. 10 Markets prIces or conon.
NS Not signltfcant.



MEXICO
SAIN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(USS '000)
CALENDAR YEAR               1970       1980       1051       1982       1983       1984       1965      1986       1987       1963       1909       1ogo       1991   19925
k COSTS
INVESTMENT COSTS              351      16,740     50.904     22,758     10,946      8,193     10.425     3.881   ,  2,290      1.0a5      1,400      4,665
OPERATING COSTS                 -          -          -        250        500        500        750        750      1,000      1,250      1.500      1,600     1,500      1,500
TOTALCOSTS                 351      16,740     50.904     23,008     11,443      8,893     11.175     4.631      3.290      2,315      2.906      6,065      1.500      1,600
a. BENEFITS                  -      2.760     41,465     30.0e8     (9.383)     1,220     27.274    (14,654)    (7,650)    2,087    (37,469)       779     60,984    126.397
TOTAL BENEFITS                 -      2,760     46.465     30,068     (9,363)     1.220     27.274    (14,654)    (7,550)    2.067    (37.469        779     66.984    126.397     t
C. NET BENEFITS             (351)   (13.9s0)    (2,439)     7,058    (20,811)    (7.473)    16.o00    (19.285)   (10,340)      (2i8)   (40.3761    (5.266)    65.484    124.197
ECONOMIC IRR              23.91%
Ln,
W-



MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(US$ '000)
CALENDAR YEAR               1970       1060       lo61       12         103        19e4       1tl        10s6      1067       In2U       1m         im         IWi   1tl62-6
A. COSTS
INVESTMENT COSTS               351     16,740     50.904     22.750     10.941      J,103     10.425     3.661      2.200      1.005      1.406      4.5,6
OPERATING COSTS                 -          -          -        250        600        600        750        750      1,000      1,260     3.600      36500      360        2.600
TOTAL COSTS                 351     18,740     50,e04     23.008     11.448      6.693     11.175     4,631      3.200      2.315      4.,6       6.066      3.500      3.600
LA)
B. BENEFITS                  -      3,046     70.228     31,011    (10.633)     2.636     45.390     (9.479)     7.720     3.522    (13.863      6.047     30.321     36.061
TOTAL BENEFITS                 -      3.046     70.226     31,011    (10."3       26.838    45.390     (9.479)     7.72      3.522    (13.6t3)     6.047     30.321     36.061
C. MET BENEFITS             (351)   (13.62      10.322      6.003    (22.26)    (5.6M       34.215    (14.110)     4.436      167    (16.5"        (2.616)    26.621    86.661
FINANCIAL IRR             41.60%
tit



- 36 -
TABLE SF
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
APPRAISAL
ESTIMATE                    ACTUAL
Economic Rate of Retum                  15.0%                       23.9% I/
Finmncial Rate of Retum                 29.9%                       41.5%
V CNA evaluated the project ERR as about 17.4%. In this exercise the cost
stroam included grain storage facilities and cngincering and
administration costs (some USS5 mlillon morc).



- 37 -
TABLE S
mcoCO
SAN t  NANDO RWNilD AGNCULTUNAL DlVILOWtPMgT PtiECT
ILown 219ftM-i
STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
DEADUNE
GUVAANTEE                                                                                     FOR
AGREEMtENT                                           SUBJECT                                    COMPUANCE                    STATUS
COVENANT
Section 3.03              Except * the Bank sh"ll otherwvir segee procurement of the      Closirg drate             Complied with
goods nd civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shell be governed by the provisionr of Schedule 2 to thee
Agreement.
- Section 3.05             b) The GOM shall mer ntin or came to be maintained records       Naem                      Compied with
tbl                  adequate to record the progras of the Proiact tincludting its coat).
Cil0 enablh the Banks accredited repreenuatives to visit the
tacikties end construction site included in the Project an ta
examine the good financed out of the proceeds of *th Loan, and
any relevant records and documents; and tiiii turrish or casc to
be furnished to the Bank ruch other intorrmation a the lank sl.
from time to time, resonably request cone rning the Project, its
cost. the expenditure of proceeds of the Loan end the goode and
servies financed out of such proee ds.
* Section 3.08             Furnish to the Bank e study qn grain investment and storage.     12/31183                  Received by the Bank in
09-16-84
- Section 3.09             The GOM shotl continue to take such measur  _ shall be           AnruValy                  Complied with
necssary or advisable to ewnure that the farmers in the Project
ware will be provided with such short, medium-. end long-tarm
credit as anrd vwhen requ9red to utilize adequately tho facilities
end rrrvices ineluded in the Project.
- Section 3.09             Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not   After project             Comdplians
(l                  later than one yea after the Closing Daes or such later date _   completion                ongoIng
may be agroed for the purpcee between the GOM and the Sank.
prepre  fd fturnish to the Sank a report on the execution nd
initial operation of the Project, its toot end benrfits ad on the
aceomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
- Section 4.02             The GOM shell msintain or cauer to be maintained separate        Annwuly                   Complied with
(a)                  accounts adequate to reflect In accordance with conrstently
rmaintainrd sound accounting practice the resources nd
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencie of the GOM responrible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
- Section 4.02             The GOM shall annuelly, withn one year after the end of the year  Annually                 Complied with
Iel                 concerned. furresh to the Bank a summery statement of such
account.
Section 4.03             The GOM  Ihall carry out the Project drecribed in Schedule I to  Annually                  Complied with
this Agreement, ecting through SARH. with due dilignce end
ftficiency and in conformity with sournd enineering. egriculturel,
economic, administrative rnd financial practices, arnd shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities. serviea, and
othwr resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.03              Recovery of Od M coats.                                                                   Not complied. but since
to)                                                                                                            completion, Programs is
being made
- Section 4.03             Complete a eocioionomic study to establish O&M chargve           12/31/85                 Complied in September,
Ib)                                                                                                            1966
Section 4.04              Take such adtione as shell be neessary to recover the operation                           Not complied, but since
il)                 and ma.ntenence costs, and as much as practicable of the                                   completion, program is
nvestm.nt cost, ol the droanage  nd adjacent rood facilities in the                       being made
Project wea relerred to n Schedule I to ths Agreement, in
accordance with the recommendatione of the Study raefrred to in
paragraph Ib) of this Section.



- 38 -
TABLE 7A
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
STAFF INPUTS
(WEEKS)
.  .                               PLANNED                     REVISED          FiNAL
TOTAL
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE   H.O.    FIELD    TOTAL    H.O.    FIELD
Through Appraisal              8.2     14.6     22.8      10.2     12.6      22.8
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Through Effectiveness         87.1     19.1    106.2      86.9     19.3    106.2
Supervision                    7.0     40.4     47.4      36.3     30.7      67.0
TOTAL                     102.3      74.1    176.4    133.4      62.6    196.0
Source: Bank MIS and Divisional Black Books.



- 39 -
TABLE 7B
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
MISSIONS
MISSION DATE         Date    No. of   Man/days  Specializations Performance Type of  Comments
(molyr)  Persons   in field    represented      rating    Problems
Preparation 1            12V79        4           56      a,2c,f          na                     1/
Preparation 2            10/80        4           32      a,b,c,e         na
Preappraisal             06/81        2           14        a,c           na                     1/
Appraisal 1              08181        5          100      a,b,c,2t        na
Appraisal 2              10/81         1          10        c             na
Appraisal 3              01/82         1           4        a             na
Post-appraisal 1         02/82         1           7        b             na
Post-appraisal 2         05/82         1           8        c             na
Supervkion 1             09/83         1           5        c             na
Supervlsion 2            10/83         1           8        c             2           F
Supervision 3            12/83         1           5        c             /x
Supervision 4            03/84        3           36       a,b,c          3         F,M.T
Supervision 5            08/84        2           18       b,c            2          F.M
Supervision 6            02/85         1           5        a             2          F,M
Supervision 7            08185        3           45       a,b,c           1
Supervision 8            05/86        2           22       a,c             1
Supervislon 9           02187          1          15        a             1
Supervision 10           12/87         1           4        a             1
Supervision 11           09/88         1          18        a             1                     1/
Supervision 12           06189         2          26       a.b             1
Supervision 13           08/90         3          26       a,2c            1
TOTAL                                41          464
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower: Nacional Financlera, SA
Executive Agency: SARH -CNA / Secretaria de Agricultura y Rescursos Hidraulicos - Comision Nacional del Agua
Fiscal Year: January 1 -December 31
Name of Currency (abbreviation): Mexican Pesos (Mex$)
Currency Exchange Rate:
AppraisalYearAverage: (1981-83)                     US$1.00  MEX$ 40.45
Intervening Year Average: (1 983-89)                US$1.00 - MEX$ 1038.49
Last Year Average:     (1990)                       USS1.00 - MEX$ 2812.60
a * agriculturist; b . economist; c a engineer; d - financial analyst; * * deputy divislon chief. f  consultant
1'problem tre or minor problems: 2-moderate problems: 3- major problems; 4 major problems, objectives will not be met.
F- Financial: M * managerial; T - Technical: P . Political; and 0 a other overal
1/ Patial in conjunction wlth other projWcs
xi Report not in file



- 40 -
TABLE BA
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
LAND TENTURE STATUS
AREA
(Hectares)
BEFORE           AFrTER PROJECT
.. .                                   PROJECT 11
ACTUAL          APPRAISAL
Ejidos                                  133.066        198,175            287,116
Private Owners                          310,081       237,222  3/         120,244
Colonias                                  18,635        18,634             19,656
SARH                                          -          2,248 
Others 21                                24,658        30.161              59,596
TOTAL                      486t440       486.440             486.612
1l Some figures are different from those In the Appraisal Report, which
were the best estimates at the time. These figures are based on actual
detailed count shortly after appraisal.
2/ nfrastructure works, urban areas, environmental protection, bodies of water, etc.
31 Of which 10,523 ha represents private land expropriated and indemnified in kind to private cattlemen.



- 41 -
TABLE 8A
Chart 1
LAND TENTURE STATUS (AREA %)
BEFORE PROJECT
At rfra, on.(n.Cs 4
AFTER PROJECT (ACTUAL)
SARM (Q#l~  Calornas (ca)
Prtvht Owners (4a(%) 
s E E     *                     (~~~(2%



MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191 -Mg)
LAND TENTURE STATUS
FAMILIES
NUMBER OF FAMIUES                                AREA PER FAMILY
(Hectares)
BEFORE         AFTER PROJECT             BEFORE        AFTER PROJECT
PROJECT 1/
PROJECT 1/
ACTUAL      APPRAISAL                  ACTUAL  APPRAISAL
Ejldos                                  6.771        10.822        13,838        19.65       18.31       20.75
Private Owners                          1,926         3.475         1.926        161.00      68.27       62.41
Colonlas                                1.161         1.161         1.356         16.05      16.05       14.05
TOTAL                       9,858        15,458       17.120
1/ Some figures are different from those in the Appraisal Report, which were the best estimates at the time.
These figures are based on actual detailed count shortly after appraisal.
ao



- hs3 -
TABLE8C
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
LAND USE PATTERN
BEFORE PROJECT          AFTER PROJECT
(1979)                  (1990)
Area          % of        Area         % of
(ha.)        Total        (ha.)       Total
1. Total Area In Crops                239,931          49.3    396.696         81.6
2. Land for LIvestock 1/              174,207          35.8      61,734        12.7
3. Land Recently Cleared               42,184           8.7         400         0.1
4. Idle Land                            6.000           1.2         700         0.1
5. Non - Arable Land                   13,370           2.7      13,370         2.7
6. Others 2/                           10,830           2.2      13,540         2.8
TOTAL                    486.522         100.0    486,440        100.0
Source: CNA report.
1/ Land In brush, natural and cultivated pastures
2/ Bodies of water, urban areas, roads, drains, etc.



- 44 -
TABTF P.C
LAND USE PATTERN (AREA %)                                          Chart 1
BEFORE PROJECT (1979)
'wo cs)          MLKeqcw_"*n)
A-g nui CtUPS (4&3%A)
W" -Ari  LNfl(1CZ
AFTER PROJECT (1990)
Lai ic LIu~ok (2.W Laid (ML%)  Land ACuWIgr CSmwued (M.%)
w lor Lbvock (IXt O%
Non- A 'be Land(2.\\
Odwe (23)
km    m cirops (31.5%)



- 45 -
TABLE 9
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2191-ME)
STUDIES
Purpose as Defined                   Status                  Impact of
at Appraisal                                               Study
1.  GRAIN STORAGE STUDY
To resolve storage and grain          Received by Bank         Support decisions for sizing,
movement problems encountered         In September 1984.      location and financing the nine
and anticipated when the project                              grain storage facilities with
is implemented.                                               total capacity of 270,000 tons.
2.  SAN FERNANDO II FEASIBIUTY STUDY
To prepare a feasibility study for    On-going.                Will permit the assessment of
a follow-on project In an area of     Initiated in March, 1991.   possible expansion of the
about 400,000 ha to the south of                               project.
the project just completed.
3.  SOCIO - ECONOMIC STUDY
To provide the basis of cost recovery  Received by Bank        Detailed information about
for 0 & M.                            In September, 1986.     beneficiaries, capacity to
pay for 0 & M.



>_   ))Mc Allen                                                 D-.'\  U NI T E D STAT ES
rho, Drdo,    \  
U NIED             S T A T E S
R no                                                    ,            'ae,Hd.1               0o
3 1,. .o,dud .R.. l'.-
^; 9 ffi N 4 W~~o                                                                    Of/
X   I .  t  _             e          OGrmo  '6   SAN FERNANDO RAINFED
-   1  ;=    <          i ffi11-72bStBloDEVELOPMENT.PiROJECT
,  ,     ,      ,     20~So Frnneixo,X                                                  S L.             X  ':ernifd
n~_* ,~w _.__               _   /1   R l            <                    f        _ _  Lihtqoinlbndr'               r
0              I?;                                                                             Cuwvaots ondrs  bridge



