Document of
The World Banken
F   'etV j.t t
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3354--ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJL
June 2, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Central Bank withdrew from the exchange market on February 18,
1982. Prior to that date, the rate of exchange was 26.9 peso to the US dollar.
In recent weeks the peso has been traded around 47 to the dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare                   =  10,000 m2   2.47 acres
1 kilometer                 =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kmn2)   =  0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram                  =  2.2 pounds
1 liter (1)                 =  0.26 gallons
I metric ton (mt)           =  1,000 kg = 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ANAGSA               -  National Crop and Livestock Insurance Agency Inc.
(Aseguradora Nacional Agricola y Ganadera, S.A.)
ANDSA                -  Conasupo's National Storage Facilities
(Agencia Nacional de Servicios de Almacenamiento)
BANRURAL or BNCR    -  National Rural Credit Bank
(Banco Nacional de Credito Rural)
CONASUPO             -  National Marketing Corporation for Basic Foods
(Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares)
DGCSA                -  General Directorate for Soil and Water Conservation
I                     (Direccion General de Conservacion del Suelo y Agua)
DGDUT                -  General Directorate of Rainfed Districts and Units
(Direccion General de Distritos y Unidades de Temporal)
DT                   -  Rainfed District
(Distrito de Temporal)
FICART or FICAR      -  Trust Fund for Credit in Rainfed Areas
(Fideicomiso para Credito en Areas de Riego)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS (Continued)
FIRA                 -  Agricultural Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
(Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura,
Ganaderia y Avicultura del Banco de Mexico)
ICB                  -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB                  -  Local Competitive Bidding
NAFINSA              -  National Development Bank
(Nacional Financiera, S.A.)
PIDER                -  Integrated Rural Development Program
(Programa Integral de Desarrollo Rural)
PLANAT             -   National Plan for Rainfed Agricultural Development
(Plan Nacional de Apoyo a la Agricultura de Temporal)
SAHOP                -  Secretariat for Human Settlement and Public Works
(Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas)
SAM                  -  Mexican Food System
(Sistema Alimentario Mexicano)
SARH                 -  Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SOE                  -  Statements of Expenditures
SPP'                -  Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
(Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto)
SRA                  -  Secretariat of Agrarian Reform
(Secretaria de Reforma Agraria)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



/f    1
a   ,



MEXICO
THE SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:        United Mexican States
Amount:           US$138.4 million equivalent (including US$2.1 million
capitalized front-end fee).
Terms:            Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 11.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description:      The project will increase productivity and crop production
(mainly sorghum) on about 240,000 ha already cultivated and
expand production of grain sorghum on an additional 164,500
ha presently uncultivated. Implementation would be carried
out over a six-year period and would benefit some 17,100
families, including the 8,200 families to be settled under
the land reform program. In addition, the project includes
a study for future development of grain movement and storage
and a feasibility study for a second stage rainfed development
project in an area south of San Fernando.
The project is not expected to have any harmful effects
on the environment. Although opening up new lands and
creating open areas may have some effect on the biological
life in Tamaulipas, over 22,500 ha in the proposed project
area are to be retained as a wildlife reserve.
The main risks associated with the project would be
(a) institutional, (b) climatic and (c) financial. Regarding
institutional aspects, the task would be to ensure coordi-
nation between the different programs to be implemented
under SAH, SRA and SAHOP. The most serious climatic risk
would be drought, but the area seems to be relatively safe
and water conservation through the technical assistance
program will help to reduce this risk. Finally, although
there is a risk that short-term governmental budgetary
constraints may delay local counterpart funding, the Govern-
ment has assured the Bank that high priority will be given to
funding of this project.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                         Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ millions------
I. Civil works (land levelling,
land clearance and drainage)            90.6       70.8      161.4
II.  Civil works (buildings)                    3.6        1.0        4.6
III.  Equipment                                  1.6       12.2       13.8
IV.  Training                                   5.1        0.1        5.2
V.  Studies                                    3.6        0.2        3.8
VI.  Right-of-way                               3.5         -         3.5
VII.  Operation, maintenance and
salaries                                36.1        7.6       43.7
VIII.  Total Baseline Cost                      144.1        91.9     236.0
IX.  Contingencies
Physical contingencies                  21.1       13.9       35.0
Price contingencies                    47.1       30.5        77.6
X.  Front End Fee                               -         2.1        2.1
TOTAL                       212.3       138.4      350.7
Financial Plan:                                         Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ millions------
Government/beneficiaries               212.3           -       212.3
Bank                                      -         138.4      138.4
TOTAL                                  212.3        138.4      350.7
Estimated
Disbursements: Bank FY                   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
-------------US$ millions--------------
Annual                    7       8      12     25      30      56
Cumulative                7      15      27     52      82    138
Rate of
Return:         18 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 3764-ME, June 2, 1982



NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$138.4 million to help finance the San Fernando Rainfed
Agricultural Development Project. The loan, which includes a capitalized
front-end fee of 1.5 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid over 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Mexico: Development Strategy - Prospects and Problems"
(3605-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on August 31, 1981.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        For the last thirty years, the Mexican economy recorded a high rate
of growth: on average, GDP grew at 6 percent per year, in real terms, between
1950 and 1980, allowing output per capita to increase by 3 percent per year
over the same period. Sustained growth brought about rapid industrialization:
especially after 1955, industry has been the most dynamic sector of the
economy, growing at an average rate of 7.5 percent per year, while agricultural
oul:put grew at 3.5 percent per year; thus, the share of the industrial sector
in GDP went up from 26 percent in 1950 to 38 percent in 1980. A similar change
took place in the structure of foreign trade, with manufactured products account-
ing for an increasing share of total exports between 1950 and 1975. Finally,
the last thirty years witnessed the passage from a rural to a largely urban society:
in 1980, the fraction of total population living in urban areas was estimated to
exceed 60 percent, while it was less than 30 percent in 1950.
4.        Successful exploitation of profitable opportunities by a dynamic
private sector has been the main engine of growth in the Mexican economy; but
the market mechanism, left to itself, would have done little to correct the
effects of an uneven distribution of resources on the relative position of
the poorer segments of the population and of the less favored areas of the
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Pollution Control Project (P-3302-ME) of May 4, 1982. However, some
minor changes have been introduced in paras. 10-17.



- 2 -
country; hence the government has had to play a critical role in balancing
the need to provide resources and incentives for growth against the demands
for a fair distribution of its benefits.
5.        In the early seventies, the government sought to build up
infrastructure, expand basic industries, stimulate agricultural output and
implement massive social programs; the difficulties it encountered in
mobilizing enough resources to attain all these aims simultaneously led to
excessive public sector deficits, while domestic supply rigidities caused a
large part of aggregate demand to spill over into imports. Efforts to
redress financial imbalances by strengthening public revenues fell short of
their goal, and, in September, 1976, the hitherto fixed parity of the peso
was abandoned, while the Government imposed a strict stabilization program on
the economy.
Economic Performance, 1976-1981
6.        The Administration of President Lopez Portillo, which took office
in December 1976, saw the control of inflation and the improvement of the
current account balance as its most urgent tasks; it succeeded in reducing
the rate of increase of domestic prices by half between 1977 and 1978 while,
at the same time, the current account deficit decreased by over 40 percent.
In 1978, the economy resumed its path of rapid growth. One of the major
constraints on economic growth - the availability of foreign exchange - had
been greatly relaxed by the successful exploitation of Mexico's oil reserves;
these, which at the end of 1981 stood at 72 billion barrels (with potential
reserves estimated at 200 billion barrels), enabled the economy to purchase
the raw materials and capital goods needed to sustain high GDP growth, while
the revenues from federal taxes on oil exports provided the Government with
resources, on a hitherto unprecedented scale, to pursue some of its
long-standing policy goals.
7.        In 1978-1981, output grew at an annual rate exceeding 7 percent,
above what would be needed to absorb the new entrants into the labour force;
open unemployment is estimated to have fallen to 4-5 percent of the labour
force in the modern sector. The Administration succeeded in achieving
investment growth of over 16 percent per year, strengthening its support to
agriculture, reversing the trend towards a worsening trade balance on basic
foods, containing to some extent rural migration and providing small farmers
with access to more efficient production methods. Finally, a combination of
fiscal incentives and administrative regulations had a positive effect on
spatial decentralization, one of the major policy objectives of the
Administration.
8.        A marked increase in the size of the budget was the first result of
the Government's new commitments: the expenditure budget grew, in real terms,
20 percent per year between 1979 and 1981; furthermore, actual expenditures
exceeded budget figures by significant amounts (by as much as 12 percent in
1981). Revenues have grown more slowly, and, as a result, the public sector
deficit amounted to over 14 percent of GDP in 1981. Despite a high rate of
mobilization of private savings into the financial system - made possible by



- 3 -
a scheme of adjustable rates on peso deposits - the Government had to resort
increasingly to foreign borrowing: although foreign indebtedness, as a
percentage of GDP, had fallen from 31 percent in 1977 to 20 percent in 1980,
it reached 30 percent in 1981; in the same year, the Government's planned
foreign borrowing amounted to more than half the revenues expected from oil
exports. By 1980, moreover, the side-effects of rapid GDP growth were making
themselves felt; aggregate demand - with total investment growing at over 16
percent per year, in real terms, since 1979 - was exerting pressure on prices,
an,d domestic inflation reached 26 percent, while the nominal exchange rate had
remained practically stable since 1977; as a result, non-oil exports were
decreasing in real terms, while imports - encouraged to some extent by a more
liberal trade policy - had grown by 30 percent per year since 1979. At the
end of 1980, the current account deficit amounted to 4 percent of GDP, as it
had in 1976.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1981, the need to bring domestic inflation under control and to
help restore the competitiveness of non-oil exports became obvious. The
Administration opted for a policy of gradual adjustment, counting on slower
demand growth in 1982 - brought about partly by a deceleration of public
expenditures - to moderate inflation, and allowing a faster rate of float of
thLe peso to reduce the gap between domestic and foreign prices over a
two-year period. With a favourable outlook for oil exports, no major
problems were expected on the external sector, and a path of gradual
adjustment to a rate of growth of 6-7 percent appeared sustainable in the
long run and was considered to be less costly in terms of inflation and
unemployment than more drastic stabilization measures. Thus, the
Administration decreed a 4 percent cut in its expenditures, reintroduced
import licenses on 80 percent of imports, tightened public procurement
procedures and allowed the float to proceed at a faster pace.
10.       This program suffered a setback when, in the second half of
1981, it became apparent that oil sales would not reach their target: actual
oLl revenues, at US$14 billion, turned out to be 25 percent below what had
besen forecast. The public sector had to increase its foreign borrowing by
$4 billion, and the current account deficit reached an estimated $11.3 billion,
or 8 percent of GDP, at the end of the year. The exchange markets reacted by
increasing the downward pressure on the peso, and, in early 1982, two events
combined to make a guided float increasingly costly to maintain: on the one
hand, it seemed likely that oil sales for the year would again fall short
of expectations; on the other, the 5 percent increase in domestic prices in
January - due in part to the rise in domestic fuel prices decreed in
December 1981, and in part to a 34 percent raise in the minimum wage for
1982 - suggested that inflation, which had reached 28.7 percent in 1981,
might well accelerate further in 1982. Once more, the exchange markets reacted
unfavourably, and, in order to stop the steady drain on reserves required for
maintaining the float, the authorities withdrew their support of the peso on
February 18. The peso is presently trading around Mex$47 to the dollar,
amounting to an adjustment of 70 percent (40 percent in dollar terms).



-4-
11.       Simultaneously, the Administration announced a stabilization program,
which was published on April 19, and whose main points are a 3-point reduction
in the public deficit/GDP ratio, an overall reduction of 8 percent in public
expenditures, lower targets for public and private imports, ceilings to
monetary growth and federal borrowing, the imposition of a monthly monitoring
process for the expenditures of all public agencies and the setting of ex-
penditures targets for the main public enterprises. Investment projects, in
particular, will receive close scrut:.ny before they are authorized to proceed.
Finally, the Administration has committed itself to the liberalization of
certain essential imports (basic foodstuffs, raw materials and capital goods).
Prospects
12.       The rate of inflation for 1982 has been forecast at 50 to 60 percent,
partly as a result of the devaluation and partly because of the wage increases
(between 10 and 30 percent for the public sector, 30 percent for a large part
of the private sector) granted shortly thereafter. This suggests that the
credit ceilings set by the stabilization program will turn out to have substan-
tial effects on real expenditures. As a result, GDP growth is likely to be
only about 3 percent, in real terms, in 1982.
13.       The Mexican administration has sought to minimize the disruption
caused by the stabilization measures, so as not to jeopardize the remarkable
growth of the past years. In doing so, it has opted for a policy which will
trade off inflation and external imbalances in the very short run for a lesser
effect on real growth. The high inflation expected in 1982 will likely offset
part of the effects of the devaluation on the competitiveness of non-oil
exports. On the other hand, the external sector can improve, in the short
run, only to the extent that imports show a substantial deceleration, since,
even though the adoption of a more realistic parity has removed a major
obstacle to non-oil exports, the stimulus to foreign sales is unlikely to
have a significant effect on aggregate exports in the next few months.
Finally, the Administration has little margin to reduce its expenditures
during this fiscal year; the only item in which substantial cuts can be
effected in the short run is public investment: general expenses (38 percent
of the expenditure budget), debt service (21 percent) or transfers and sub-
sidies are virtually fixed for the duration of the budget. On the other
hand, if the Administration adheres to a strict budgetary policy, thereby
contributing to moderate the rate of domestic inflation, significant improve-
ments are likely to appear by the end of 1983. Non-oil exports, led by
tourism and certain consumer goods, will probably grow substantially; a
reduced public sector borrowing requirement will reduce the pressure on the
peso; and by 1984 Mexico could reach a sustainable 6 percent rate of GDP
growth, while maintaining the current account deficit within manageable
limits. Lastly, the Administration has an opportunity to overhaul the entire
system of transfers and subsidies, improving their cost-effectiveness.



- 5 -
14.       The country still faces structural problems in the years to come,
related mainly to poverty and unequal interpersonal and inter-regional
distribution of income. Efforts were made in the past to improve the living
conditions of the poorer segments of the population. A family planning
program started in 1972 assisted in bringing the growth rate of the population
to an estimated annual average of 2.6 percent, down from 3.5 percent in the
1970s. To tackle the problems of malnutrition and increasing dependence on
foreign food, the present Administration launched the SAM (Mexican Food
System) Program, aimed at increasing self-sufficiency in basic foods, providing
for minimum nutritional needs of the poor and increasing rural employment.
The Administration also placed greater emphasis on the promotion of small
scale irrigation, rehabilitation of underutilized existing irrigation works
and provision of credit and technical assistance for the development of
rainfed agriculture.
15.       The main urban-regional problems are:  growing congestion, pollu-
tion, high cost of services (especially water) and other management problems
that stem from the continued growth of Mexico City (already the third most
populous metropolitan area in the world and moving rapidly to become the
first) and Monterrey and Guadalajara, located in the dry, densely populated
central plateau; and retarded development, poverty and great difficulty in
providing better jobs or adequate public services to the one-third of all
Mexicans who live in small, scattered centers in rural areas. The present
government took many positive steps to confront these problems, including an
administrative reorganization and the elaboration of a comprehensive National
Urban Plan in 1978 and of a National Industrial Development Plan in 1979,
which reflected the preoccupation of the present Administration with the
long-term prospects of the industrial sector and their implications for the
correction of the employment and regional imbalances problems.
16.       The high rate of growth experienced by the Mexican economy in
recent years has provided the strongest weapon to tackle the long-term
problems mentioned above. At the present time, Mexico is in the midst of an
adjustment process which will mean lower real growth and employment generation
in the next few years. Lower growth, however, will afford an opportunity to
reappraise many of the past years' goals and policy instruments, and there is
evidence that the Administration, after having adopted unpopular decisions in
a politically difficult year, intends to carry out such a reappraisal.
17.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked at 69 percent in 1979. This high
ratio reflects the still relatively low level of exports to GNP and the high
proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks. The public debt
service ratio declined to around 30 percent in 1980, as a result of a rapid
increase in petroleum exports, and because some of the debt contracted on the
least favorable terms had been prepaid; but it is estimated to have risen
s-Lgnificantly in 1981. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 3.2 per-
cent of public debt service in 1980; this ratio is projected to remain about
the same during the mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 5.9 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
18.       As of March 31, 1982, Mexico had received 72 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$5,218.1 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 44 loans totalling US$2,438.6 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$4,405.3 million, of which US$1,942.9 million had not yet been disbursed. 2/
Some 46 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development,
14 percent for industry, 13 percent for power, and 15 percent for transporta-
tion; the remaining 12 percent has been for water supply, tourism, urban
development and vocational training projects. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1982 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
19.       Of the $5.2 billion total lending, about $2.5 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channeling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal
of investments in agriculture, industry, and tourism. These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial enterprises based on productive investment plans rather than
collateralized credit.
20.       Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period
of stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of the peso.
Since then, the Government has arranged adequate budget financing and has
significantly improved project implementation. Four projects which had
important structural constraints were modified and rephased to account for the
changed circumstances. Government and Bank officials have met periodically to
review project implementation, and greater attention has been focused in
Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these measures, most of the
Bank-assisted projects are being implemented satisfactorily and disbursements
have risen from US$91 million in FY78 to US$413 million in FY81.
IFC Operations
21.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC had made investment commitments in 23
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$551.2 million, of which US$404.1
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.  A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Pollution Control Project (P-3302-ME of May 4, 1982).
2/   These totals do not include a $180 million loan for agricultural develop-
ment approved in March 1982 but not yet signed. They also do not include
a US$152.3 million loan for capital goods and $60 million loan for pollution
control approved after March 31.



-7-
Bank Strategy
22.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that make, directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; (c) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (d) help break bottlenecks
preventing rapid growth.
23.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and
the sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the population living in
the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its
lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four goals:
first, to increase productivity of presently cultivated lands; second, to
improve the productivity of small farmers; third, to complement infrastructure
investments with support services such as extension, marketing, and credit;
and fourth, to promote employment generating investments in rural areas.
The Bank has made eleven loans in FYs76-81 totalling US$1,466 million for
irrigation, rural development and agricultural, agro-industrial and livestock
credit programs. A US$175 million loan for a rural development project and a
US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabilitation project have been approved
by the Executive Directors in FY82. An agricultural marketing project and a
fisheries development project have been appraised. Several projects for rain-
fed agriculture, regional or river valley development and rural credit are in
preparation.
24.       Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the
balance of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away
from the major and increasingly congested urban areas; and (c) promoting
greater employment. A steel project which the Bank helped structure and
finance is now operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast
of Mexico, and the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing
into a new growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects to promote the
de!velopment of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises, to finance
expansion of small- and medium-scale mining, and to support an industrial
equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in FYs78-80.
They offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid expansion and are
directed at all three goals mentioned above. A loan for a vocational training
project was approved by the Executive Directors in July 1981; it is assisting
a program to increase the supply of skilled workers and technicians. A US$152.3
million loan for development of a capital goods industries and a US$60 million
loan for Pollution Control were recently approved by the Executive Directors.
25.       Bank lending for physical infrastructure has focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies. A highway
sector project (FY79) and the fourth railway project (FY81) support these
goals. The first and second medium size cities water supply and sewerage
projects (FY76 and FY81) reinforce the planning, management and finance of
specialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal and municipal
levels and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more closely related to
costs; a third project has been appraised and is expected to be presented to
the Executive Directors in the coming months.



-8-
26.       The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A
project to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area
was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second project for
oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in
FY81. An engineering loan for preparation of a Metropolitan Deconcentration
Program will be submitted to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
27.       The Economic Development Tnstitute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (a
similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budget) in training
Government staff in project preparation, monitoring and evaluation. EDI
assistance is directed at urban and regional development, agriculture, rural
development and agro-industries courses. The Bank has also assisted the
Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water supply and
industrial credit projects.
28.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$2,697.1 million as of March 31, 1982. Over 60 percent of the
total has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, water supply, and tourism infrastructure. The IDB
and the Bank have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has
made loans for the National Integrated Rural Development Program (PIDER),
agricultural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries develop-
ment, and hotel development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development
project in the State of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for
which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering the loan.
29.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have been co-firnanced by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks. The capital goods credit project, recently approved by the
Executive Directors will be co-financed with commercial banks and export credit
agencies. In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million to provide comple-
mentary financing for Bank-assisted projects where project specific co-financing
would be difficult.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
30.       Mexico has a land area of about 197 million ha of which about
30 million are considered cultivable, 78 million are classified as range land
and 44 million are suitable for forestry. The remaining 45 million ha are
either too dry, too poorly drained and saline, or too steep for any form of
agricultural development. Of the estimated 30 million ha of potentially
arable land, the cropped and irrigated areas have respectively fluctuated
around 15 million ha and 4.7 million ha since the late 1960s. Since 1965, the
cropped area has increased slightly and agricultural production has risen at
an average annual rate of about 2.3 percent. Livestock production, however,



- 9 -
has expanded during the same period at an annual rate of approximately 4 per-
cent. Because other sectors of the Mexican economy have developed at a faster
rate, agriculture's share of the GDP declined from 14 percent in 1965 to
around 7.4 percent in 1980. Agriculture remains an important source of
employment, accounting for about 40% of the total labor force. Although a
significant proportion of the labor force is linked to agriculture, compared
to other sectors, family income in the sector is relatively low. About
two-thirds of the agricultural labor force have earnings below the minimum
wage. Consequently, improving agricultural productivity and production,
especially of the small holders, is at the core of the Mexican strategy
for alleviation of poverty.
31.       For three decades, 1940-1970, agricultural as well as livestock
production increased at average annual rates of about 5 percent; within this
peiriod while livestock production grew steadily, there was somewhat of a
deceleration in agriculture, the growth rate declining from 7.6 percent for
the decade of 1940s to 3.6 percent for the period 1960-70. In the 1940s and
19.50s, Mexican agricultural growth was accompanied by increases in area under
cultivation: in the decade of the 1940s the non-irrigated lands under agricul-
ture increased by 36 percent, in the 1950s area under irrigation increased by
40 percent. Output growth in the 1960s and subsequently has been almost
entirely because of yield increases. In the 1970s non-irrigated acreage under
cultivation remained virtually constant and, with double cropping, the irri-
gated area harvested increased substantially. Crop composition also changed
in the 1970s, as output of fruits, vegetables and coffee expanded rapidly and
grain production almost stagnated. In the 1980s, once again the Government
has moved to increase the area under cultivation, primarily by promoting
crops in pasture land, and improving the carrying capacity of the poorer
range lands. The proposed project is an exercise in this direction.
32.       Demand for agricultural products has remained strong throughout
the past decade. With a population of 67 million growing at about 3 percent
per annum, and with an average per capita GDP growth of 2 percent to 3.5 per-
cent per year, annual consumption increase ranged from about 3 percent for
maize 1/ to 6 percent for wheat, 7 percent to 10 percent for meat products,
especially pork and poultry, and 8 percent to 12 percent for fruits and
vegetables. The demand for grains and high value foods is expected to
continue to expand in the eighties.
33.       The demand outlook has contrasted sharply with recent output
trends for agricultural produce, which (including livestock) slowed down to
less than 3 percent in the 1970/80 period. Rice, maize and wheat production
grew only 1.9 percent, 2.0 percent and 2.4 percent per annum respectively,
i.e., well below increases in domestic consumption, while sugar and cotton
production actually declined. The agricultural trade balance reflected these
trends: while still favourable overall, exports in the 1970s rose by only
8 percent while imports doubled, reducing the favorable net agricultural trade
balance by 50 percent. Mexico changed from a small net exporter of wheat in
the 1960s to an importer of about 45 percent of its domestic requirements,
1/   Income elasticity of demand for maize in Mexico is negative; however,
aggregate demand has been increasing because of growing feedgrain
consumption and population increase.



- 10 -
while maize imports rose from 7 percent to 20 percent of domestic requirements.
Concerned with the trend, the Government has taken several measures summarized
in paras. 39-42.
Government Strategy for Development of Agriculture
34.       The Government has adopted a strategy aimed at making fuller use
of water and land resources, obtaining higher productivity in new and existing
lands and expanding the cropped area, both irrigated and rainfed, complemented
with rehabilitation of those irrigation districts where infrastructure is
inadequate, and construction of drainage infrastructure where land is in poor
condition. These programs have received important support from Government
agencies, the Mexican banking community, and participating farmers. Increasing
attention is being given to rainfed agriculture through the 124 recently
established rainfed districts where the Government has assigned high priority
to integration of technical assistance and extension services with marketing
and credit facilities. The Government is also taking action to meet the
needs of the indigenous population and of the people in marginal areas,
expanding significantly the program of the Commission for Marginal Areas
(COPLAMAR) to extend infrastructure support and delivery of public services
(such as health, water, schools, and food distribution) to these groups.
35.       Additionally, the strategy for development in the agricultural
sector calls for remunerative farmgate prices, along with investment in
training, applied research, rural infrastructure, irrigation, land clearing,
access roads, as well as marketing and storage facilities. To reduce income
disparities in the rural areas, the Bank has supported an integrated approach
along these lines by participating in the Integrated Rural Development Program
(PIDER) and the National Plan for Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure
Development (PNDR). Furthermore, to provide impetus to agricultural development,
the Government has substantially increased credit resources for production and
investment purposes. Also, it has taken measures to strengthen the credit and
technical assistance delivery systems as well as to promote participation of
private banks.
36.       A Bank mission to study the agriculture sector visited Mexico in
November 1981 and is presently preparing its report. The main purpose of the
mission was to examine the sector's performance in terms of production,
productivity and resource use, concentrating on pricing policies for farm
inputs and products, supply and distribution mechanism, effectiveness of the
agricultural subsidy system and efficiency of the grain marketing practices.
The mission's preliminary findings suggest that while the Government's subsidy
and pricing policies have had positive impact on production of basic grains,
the subsidy system should be reviewed for streamlining, possibly reduced, and
made more target specific. In previous discussions, the Government has already
indicated interest to review the above policies. The mission has also reported
some marketing deficiencies in grain production. Recognizing this, the Government
has prepared a National Marketing Plan to redress the problems in the marketing
subsector. In response to the Government's request, the Bank has recently
appraised an agricultural marketing project for perishable products which is
intended to modernize the distribution systems. Future projects envisage
support for investments that improve marketing, storage and processing of
agricultural products.



- 11 -
Government Policies and Strategies for Rainfed Areas
37.       For many years the most important factor in the rapid increase of
agricultural production in Mexico, has been the high rate of expansion of
irrigated areas. The rate, however, has slowed in recent years, decreasing to
arcund 100,000 ha annually. While it is expected that the current rate of
expansion can be maintained for at least 10 more years, it is recognized that
the scope for opening and developing new irrigated lands under large-scale
schemes is becoming increasingly expensive. Consequently, more emphasis is
now being given to rehabilitating the existing irrigated areas, and upgrading
technical services.
38.       In addition to a shift in its irrigation development strategy in
recent years, the Government has adopted measures for promotion of rainfed
agriculture. Rainfed agriculture, covering a heterogeneous assortment of
soils and climates, ranging from desert to humid tropics, has high potential
of development. In terms of public investment, the rainfed areas received
relatively little support over the past three decades. Only 10% of public
expenditures in the agricultural sector went for development of the rainfed
areas even though rainfed agriculture accounts for over 70% of the cropped
area and up to 50 percent of the value of agricultural output. The present
Administration has devised several programs to promote rainfed agriculture.
39.       In early 1977, the Government took the first major step toward in-
cresased public investment in rainfed areas by merging the Secretariat of Water
Resources with the Secretariat of Agriculture to form a new Secretariat
of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH). This action was followed by a
pressidential decree establishing the General Directorate of Rainfed Districts
and Units (DGDUT) within SARH, with specific responsibilities for coordinating
and expanding activities in promoting rainfed production at the district level.
Following the organizational pattern of irrigation districts, DGDUT has
established 124 rainfed districts (DT). Their main objectives are to expand
extension, research and credit services and to encourage the maximum partici-
pation of all local groups involved (producers, banks, commercial technical
services, input and marketing organizations as well as other infrastructure
agencies) in order to increase output of rainfed crops, livestock and foresry
products.
40.       A further major step was taken in 1980, when the Government announced
a significant expansion of guaranteed price support and input subsidies for a
number of basic commodities. Foremost among them were maize and beans and, to
a lesser extent, wheat and sorghum. The aim was to achieve a high degree of
national self-sufficiency in the production of these commodities and also to
improve the nutritional well-being and living levels of low-income urban and
rural people. This system, known as the Mexican Food System (SAM), has been
in operation for two years now (1980 and 1981), and the production of basic
grains has increased dramatically in these years, but with significant sub-
sidies (equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP) for the agricultural/rural
sector. As stated in para. 36 ante, the Government is reviewing its overall
strategy, including subsidies affecting the sector.



- 12 -
New Agricultural Laws
41.       One of the most significant moves by the Government, following the
creation of SARH, has been the enactment in late 1980 of the Agricultural
Development Law and the Agricultural Insurance Law. These laws, as they
are enforced and their provisions implemented, will have a profound impact
on rainfed agricultural development. The former updates and sapplements the
basic agrarian legislation, namely, the Federal Water Law and the Agrarian
Reform Law, and provides the authority, or legal basis, for carrying out the
principal objectives of the Government. These objectives include acceptance
of the legal associations of ejidos and small-holders; the corsolidation of
minifundia; the provision of legal status to rainfed districts; the expropria-
tion of pasture lands suitable for cultivation; and shared risk in production
and enforced cultivation of idle lands. SARH was given the responsibility and
powers to carry out the above.
42.       The Agricultural Insurance Law extends the coverage of the National
Crop and Livestock Insurance Agency (ANAGSA) to four kinds of insurance. These
are (a) integrated agriculture--covering 100 percent of crop losses, including
labor costs; (b) livestock--covering the value of the animal lost or reduced
in value, plus medical insurance; (c) casualty--covering losses to agricultural
building facilities and equipment; and (d) campesino life insurance--covering
anyone who undertakes productive agricultural activities. Given the inherent
risks under rainfed agriculture, the Agricultural Insurance Law provides impetus
for greater participation of commercial banks as well as of rural families and
increased investments in rainfed agriculture.
Experience in Previous Projects
43.       In the past ten years (FY73-82), the Bank has approved 18 rural
development and agricultural loans amounting to US$2,265 million:
Irrigation (Panuco, Sinaloa, Fuerte/Sinaloa, Bajo Bravo/
Bajo San Juan I, II, Apatzingan, and Ocoroni) - US$654 million;
Rural Development (PIDER I, II and III and Papaloapan Basin) -
US$455 million;
Credit (four Projects) - US$760 million;
Area Development (Tropical Agriculture) - US$56 million;
Small-scale Agricultural Infrastructure Development -
US$60 million; and
Rainfed Agriculture - US$280 million.
44.       As noted in Annex II, by and large, these projects are progressing
satisfactorily. Implementation of the Panuco, Sinaloa and Bajo Bravo/Bajo
San Juan I projects was initially delayed mainly because of budgetary constraints.
Accentuating these delays were large cost increases unforeseen at appraisal which
was done prior to oil price increases of the mid-1970s. The Government and the



- 13 -
Bank jointly reviewed these problems and agreed that the projects be financed
over a longer period of time. This review led to reformulation of the Bajo
Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan project with cancellation of US$100 million from
the original loan of US$150 million. A supplementary loan of US$25 million
was approved by the Executive Directors for the Panuco Irrigation Project on
July 11, 1978. Sinaloa Irrigation project was redesigned, and the Bank made
a new loan in FY79 for additional works in Sinaloa and the adjoining Rio
Fuerte irrigation districts. Following these actions, implementation of
these projects has improved. Although these projects have not reached full
development yet, the projects have already shown some positive results,
for example, cropped area under irrigation has expanded, food production has
increased, and many small farmers have received support with improved technical
assistance. The Apatzingan and Ocoroni projects are in their initial stages
of implementation and satisfactory progress in civil works has been made. The
implementation of the Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project of
October 29, 1974 has suffered delays due to managerial, budgetary and technical
constraints. A proposal for modification in the scope of the project and
extension of the closing date was approved by the Executive Directors on
January 4, 1982. Agricultural production under rainfed conditions has increased
significantly with strong technical assistance support under this project.
45.       PIDER I, II and III are multi-sectoral projects designed to improve
living conditions and productivity in depressed rural regions. After some
difficulties inherent in the nature of such projects and decentralization of
the decision-making process, overall progress has been satisfactory. PIDER I
has been fully disbursed and a completion report is now under preparation.
The PIDER projects have been instrumental in bringing about social and economic
improvements in depressed rural areas. The PIDER projects are also developing
appropriate technological packages to assist small rural producers that can be
replicated in other parts of the country.
46.       The disbursement pace of the Fifth and Sixth Agricultural Credit
Projects, which have been fully disbursed now, was faster than projected. A
Seventh Credit project was approved by the Board on July 8, 1980 and became
effective November 17, 1980. This project would be fully disbursed earlier
than what was expected at the time of appraisal. These projects, through the
private and public banking systems, have provided credit funds and technical
assistance for agricultural diversification and increased production. The
Tropical Agriculture Project became effective on January 12, 1979, and,
although implementation was initially behind schedule, the pace has since
accelerated. The Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Development Project
that became effective on April 13, 1979 is proceeding on schedule. By allowing
the local entities to identify and appraise small irrigation schemes, the
project has improved the institutional capabilities for dealing more effectively
with the small irrigation subsector. On July 1, 1980, the Rainfed Agricultural
Development Project became effective and project administration and implementa-
tion in the Rainfed Districts are progressing as planned. The proposed project
would be the second loan made exclusively for rainfed agricultural areas and
thus it is in line with Government's increased emphasis on improving the pro-
ductivity of farmers in such areas.



- 14 -
47.       The Bank has completed audit reports on two irrigation projects, the
first four agricultural credit projects, and completion reports on the fifth
and sixth credit projects are now being prepared. The trend in Bank lending
has stressed credit for low-income producers, institutional building, more
emphasis on crop production than livestock, and less emphasis on models and
more emphasis on sector orientation. Altogether, the agricultural credit
projects have absorbed US$925 million of Bank funds, making the program one of
the largest in the Bank's agricultural portfolio.
48.       An audit report prepared on the Third Irrigation Project (Loan
450-ME) showed that performance of the borrower was generally satisfactory and
that no technical, organizational or managerial difficulties were experienced.
The audit cited, however, that the borrower had not fully complied with two
loan conditions: controlling groundwater extraction and recovering operation
and maintenance costs in part of the project area, and recovering additional
investment charges in the whole project area. These points have been addressed
in subsequent projects, and the Bank has been engaged in protracted dialogue
with the Government to increase cost recovery under irrigation projects. In
general, recognized difficulties have been overcome in that technical services
and on-farm investments, which are essential in meeting project objectives,
are now included in project costs, and sensitivity analyses are made on
construction delays and on the effects of price changes and benefits. Also,
the Bank has become more involved in project preparation and in the determi-
nation of the readiness of projects for preparation and implementation than it
has been previously.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
49.       A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3764-ME dated June 2, 1982) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The proposed project was
prepared by the General Directorate for Large Scale Irrigation of the Secretaria
de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH) and was appraised by a Bank mission
in August 1981. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., in May 1982.
The Mexican negotiations team was headed by Lic. Luis Nava Hernandez of
NAFINSA, and included representatives from Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos (SARH) and Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP).
50.       A brief description of the project may be found in the Loan and
Project Summary, at the beginning of this report. Please see the attached
map for location of the more important works. Supplementary data on the
project are provided in Annex III.
Strategy for Development of the Project Area
51.       Over the past decade sorghum has become an important grain in the
Mexican economy. Even though production nearly doubled during this period,
it no longer satisfied the country's demand. Annual sorghum production in
1970 was 2.7 million metric tons and rose to 4.8 million tons in 1980 and



- 15 -
reached 4.3 million tons in 1981. The annual growth rate of production
between 1966 and 1980 was about 7.5 percent. Sorghum imports in 1970 amounted
to 10,900 tons, but rose dramatically to 2.3 million tons in 1980 and are
expected to have been higher in 1981. To close the gap and make the country
se.Lf-sufficient, the Government is encouraging sorghum production. The
project area, in the northern part of Tamaulipas State, where there are
large tracts of idle land, has been identified as an area with comparative
advantages for sorghum production.
52.       Poor drainage is a serious impediment in the area, adversely
affecting the scope for expanding agricultural development. Although annual
rainfall is relatively low (averaging 438-648 mm), but satisfactory for
sorghum, it falls on clay soils which are characterized as being slowly
permeable. Consequently, after rainfalls, the clay soils, which comprise 70
percent of the project area, become flooded, limiting their productivity, and
roads become impassable.
53.       There are other crops suitable for adoption in the area, and
rural families - many landless for the present - in and around the area
are eager to farm the land. The area's major constraints are inadequate
control of land flooding, soil erosion, lack of suitable roads, storage
facilities and other infrastructures, soils with poor drainage properties,
inefficient use of limited water resources, lack of training facilities,
poor distribution of land holdings, and insufficient technical data. The
proposed project would directly focus on solving these identified problems,
support critical investments and provide strong technical support.
Marketing and Storage Facilities
54.       Within and around the project area, there are about 88 storage
plants, most of them flat warehouses with a total capacity of about 1,200,000 m
tons. Private interests control 63 of them (72 percent) with a total capacity
of 905,000 m tons. The public sector owns 25 storage plants (28 percent) with
a capacity of about 295,000 m tons. In May 1981, the Government (SARH,
CONASUPO, BANRURAL) launched a program for constructing 27 additional storage
plants with a projected total capacity of 270,000 m tons. The Bank's analysis
indicates that existing storage capacity, including construction of the 27 addi-
tional silos in progress, would be sufficient to sustain the incremental
production under the project in the initial years. In addition to the above
Government program, the private sector is likely to participate in providing
additional storage in the near future. However, to enable more precise
planning for additional silos - their number, type size, location and other
asipects of grain movement and storage within and around the project area, -
the Government will carry out a study on grain movement and storage under
terms of reference agreed between the Government and the Bank. The study will
be furnished to the Bank no later than December 31, 1983 (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.08).
Organization, Management and Implementation
5'i.      The project aims to increase productivity and crop production (mainly
sorghum) on about 240,000 ha already cultivated, and expand production of grain
sorghum on an additional 164,500 ha presently uncultivated. Implementation



- 16 -
would be carried out over a six-year period and would benefit some 17,100
families, including the 8,200 families to be settled under the land reform
program. It would provide for:
(a) land clearing of about 155,000 ha.
(b) construction of a surface drainage network totalling about
884 km, together with adjacent gravel surfaced feeder roads,
draining about 366,000 ha of which 270,000 ha are heavy clay
soils with low permeability;
(c) construction of an additional 394 km of shallow drainage ditches
with adjacent feeder roads, to serve about 134,000 ha of medium
to light soils;
(d) purchase of necessary equipment for maintenance of the main
surface drainage and feeder road networks;
(e) construction of about three operations and maintenance
centers and workshops, a training center for new settlers
and an agricultural research center;
(f) incremental cost of extension services to reinforce the
rainfed district of San Fernando, including training of
middle level specialists, and extension agents; and
(g) execution of a grain movement and storage study, and a
feasibility study for a second stage rainfed development
project in an area south of San Fernando.
56.       The project would be organized and managed along the pattern
followed in irrigation which will be adapted for rainfed areas. All
construction works would be carried out under SARH's Undersecretariat for
Large-Scale Irrigation, while operation and maintenance of works in the
district and services for agricultural development would be the responsibility
of the San Fernando Rainfed District which falls under the jurisdiction of the
Department of Rainfed Districts of the Subsecretariat of Agriculture and
Operation. During project implementation, physical works would be the responsi-
bility of a resident engineer, who would report to the Representative of SARH
in North Tamaulipas. After the project is completed, operation and maintenance
of the drainage canals, roads and other works would be the responsibility of
the Chief of the San Fernando Rainfed District. SARH, SRA and SAHOP will be
responsible for the resettlement program.
57.       Land acquisition for the surface drains and rights-of-way for roads,
and ditches would be handled by the Legal Department of SARH. Indemnifi-
cation for expropriated land, infrastructure attached thereto, and other
associated legal compensations have been included in project cost but would
be paid for by the Government. Roads, ditches, drains and buildings would
be built by contractors under the supervision of representatives from SARH's
construction units. Daily operations would be monitored by the San Fernando
Rainfed District's three field offices.



- 17 -
58.       Technical assistance and maintenance of roads, ditches, drains and
buildings, once completed, would be the responsibility of the Chief of the
San Fernando Rainfed District. New farmers would be selected and trained by
the Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (SRA) and SARH. Land expropriation would
be carried out by SARH/SRA.
59.       It is the Government's intention to implement the project in three
phases, i.e., in three distinct regions: covering respectively the central,
coastal and northwest parts of the project area. The central region (146,000 ha)
would be implemented during the first three years of the project because (a) the
main infrastructural works (drains and feeder roads) have already been started,
(b) the region is subject to heavy flooding, and (c) there is relatively less
land to be expropriated in this region compared to the other regions. The
coastal region (162,500 ha) would be the second phase since the conditions are
virtually the same as in the central region, but to a lesser extent. The
northwest region (137,000 ha) would be implemented during the last years of
thet project because it is the area which has the largest amount of land
expropriated for redistribution. Light soils predominate in this area;
consequently, infrastructural works are required.
Project Cost and Finance
60.       Total project costs are estimated at US$350.7 million including
allowances for physical and price contingencies.  Physical contingencies for
studies and land clearing are estimated at 12 percent. Price contingencies
are based on Bank Guidelines and calculated at 10 percent for 1982, 9 percent
for 1983 and 1984, 8.5 percent 1985, and 8.6 percent for 1986 and onward. The
proposed Bank loan of US$138.4 milion would finance the estimated foreign
exchange component of the project (US$136.3 million) equivalent to 39 percent
of project cost plus about US$2.1 million capitalized front-end fee on the
Bank loan.  The Government and beneficiaries will finance all local costs.
Credit
61.       The proposed project has been declared by the Government a priority
project, and, according to the Agricultural Development Law, it will be pro-
vided with credit on a priority basis. The project area is served by BANRURAL
and at least 13 private banks. Because all on-farm investments have to be
financed by the farmer through credit, it is expected that the Government
would take all measures necessary to ensure that the beneficiaries of the
project are provided with short-term, medium-term, and long-term credit, as
and when needed, so as to be able to effectively use the facilities being
provided in the project. Assurances have been obtained on this point at
negotiations (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.09). Short-term credit
would be needed for annual inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides,
while medium-term and long-term credits would be required for on-farm works,
storage facilities, sheds, workshops, machinery and equipment.
Agrarian Reform
62.       Under the Federal Water Law of 1972, SARH was given the authority to
expropriate land in irrigation and drainage districts for agrarian reform purposes,



- 18 -
and it established, within the proposed project area, the San Fernando Drainage
District. The Agricultural Development Law, dated December 1980 and declared
effective January 1981, specifies that land devoted to livestock but which has
possibilities of being used for crop production can be expropriated by SARH/SRA
for agrarian reform purposes and can be designated as rainfed districts. At
the same time, the law allows a person or family owning more than 200 ha of
grazing land to keep 200 ha for himself or the family. With this authority,
SARH/SRA has started to proceed with land expropriation and designated the
proposed project area as the San Fernando Rainfed District.
63.       Under the Federal Water Law, which has been widely published in the
San Fernando Valley, the SRA's Department of Social Promotion has, since May
1980, been working and negotiating with farmers whose land was eligible for
expropriation and with farmers who anticipated receiving land under the
project. Opposition by farmers was initially intense, but it subsided when, in
early 1981, agreement was reached on purchase prices per hectare for different
types of expropriated land. The expropriation program is directed exclusively
at private land owners holding more than 200 ha devoted to livestock grazing.
Such holdings will be reduced in size to a maximum of 200 ha, with the remainder
used for ejidos 1/ on which new settlers (ejidatarios) will be located on 20 ha
plots per family. The average ejido size will be about 1,000 ha. Land expro-
priation has started and is scheduled to take six years, progressing at the
rate of 18% for years 1 to 5 of the project and 8% in the sixth year. The
present and future land tenure situation is described below.
64.       Of the total land area of over 486,500 ha, 95 percent is under some
form of citizen ownership. Private farmers owning less than 200 ha make up
19 percent of the total farmers and 19 percent of the total land. Their average
holding is 55.3 ha. Farmers owning more than 200 ha comprise 2.5 percent of the
farm population and their average holding is 1,036 ha. (about 47 percent of total
land). Ejidatarios are the largest group, constituting about 63.2 percent of
the farm families, with an average holding of 21.8 ha. The colonos comprise
only 15.2 percent of the population and their average family holding is 14.5 ha.
The following table illustrates impact of the project on land tenure in the
project area.
Land Tenure in Project Area
Present               Future with Project
Ownership                      Families   Total Land      Families    Total Land
(No.)    ('000 ha)        (No.)        ('000 ha)
A.   Large Private               219         227             219            26
B.   Medium and Private        1,707          94           1,707            94
C.   Ejidatarios               5,642         123          13,838           287
D.   Colonos                   1,356          20           1,356            20
E.   Non Agricultural
Reserves                               23                            60
487                           487
1/   The ejido is a property for which the rights are held jointly by its members
(ejidatarios) and exploited communally or on the basis of parcels assigned
to individuals.



- 19 -
65.       After project completion, large farmers presently with holdings
totalling about 227,000 ha will lose 221,000 ha; with land reforms in the project
area, their average land holdings will come down from 1,036 ha to 118 ha for a
total of 26,000 ha. New ejidatarios will number about 8,200 and receive land for
th,e first time. Ejidatarios' farm size will be about 20 ha each. Non-agricultural
land for common purposes and wildlife reserve will increase two and a half fold.
Monitoring and Evaluation
66.       Monitoring and evaluation after the construction period would
be handled by DGDUT. DGDUT through its district office would be responsible
for monitoring and evaluation of the activities in the project's district.
For this purpose, the district project office has established a monitoring
and evaluation unit. This unit will manage an information system for reporting
physical progress of project activities, evaluating the impact of these activities
on an ongoing basis, and identifying successes as well as shortcomings in a
timely manner. Semi-annual reports, would enumerate the findings and recommenda-
tions of the monitoring and evaluation unit.
67.       DGDUT through its district office would also prepare, within one year
of the closing date, a completion report which would include, in addition to
physical achievements, an evaluation of project impact (draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.05(c)).
Accounts and Auditing
68.       All documentations for which reimbursement would be claimed from the
Bank loan would be subject to the independent review and approval by the
Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (SPP) in accordance with SPP's
established control procedures. SARH would maintain separate accounts adequate
to reflect the resources, expenditures and the financial situation of the
project which is subject to their internal checks and controls as well as the
continuous controls of SPP. A summary statement of such accounts would be
prepared annually by SARH and submitted to the Bank, after verification in
accordance with SARH and SPP's normal verification procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Such statements would be confirmed by SPP as to their
accuracy and to the fact that controls and verification procedures have been
properly and consistently applied. The Government would also furnish to the Bank
other pertinent information concerning such accounts and the verification
thereof, as the Bank shall reasonably request (draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 4.02).
Cost Recovery
69.       In accordance with the Federal Water Law of 1972, all recurring costs
for operation and maintenance of the basic infrastructure works such as surface
drains and feeder road networks, would be fully recovered from beneficiaries.
All on-farm investments, including warehouses, workshops, equipment, (estimated
to be US$28.0 million), would be paid by the beneficiaries and initially financed
through agricultural credit (BANRURAL and private banks).



- 20 -
Charges for operation and maintenance costs would be assessed after completion
of the works in the area and would be collected annually, commencing the first
year after completion of the works.
70.       The Federal Water Law further states that:  (a) as much as possible
of the investment costs would be recovered; (b) at completion of project
construction, a socio-economic study would be made to assess the farmers'
capacity to pay for such costs, and to determine the level of cost recovery
charges; and (c) ejidatarios would, in any case, not be required to pay more
than 30% of the investment costs pertaining to their lands. The Government's
irrigation projects in the Yaque Valley in Northwest Mexico, for example, have
reached the stage where about 30 percent of the investment costs are being
recovered through water charges.
71.       The Government has agreed that it will take the necessary actions to
recover the operation and maintenance costs, and as much as practicable of the
investment cost, of the drainage and adjacent road facilities in the project
area in accordance with the recommendations of a socio-economic study which will
be carried out by the Government in accordance with provisions of the Federal
Water Law. The above study will be completed not later than December 31, 1985,
and will determine, inter alia, the ability of the beneficiaries to pay for
such costs as well as the instruments of recovery (draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 4.04).
Procurement
72.       Civil Works.  The construction of major civil works, land clearing,
surface drains and adjacent feeder roads and service roads, totaling about
US$177 million and including contingencies, would be procured under Inter-
national Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Pro-
curement. Taking into consideration, however, economies of scale, the large
earthmoving works involved, and to avoid a multiplicity of contracts, individual
contracts, except under prior agreement with the Bank, should be insofar as
practicable, no less than US$2 million equivalent. The balance of construction
works to be financed under the project, totalling US$60 million, consists of other
works, such as land clearing, buildings, operation and maintenance and would be
contracted in sizes of less than US$2 million each and will be procured under
local competitive bidding (LCB). Some other small-scale works are scattered
throughout the project area and may not be of interest to either foreign or
local bidders; therefore, procurement would follow LCB procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank.
73.       Goods.   Equipment for operation and maintenance, totalling US$18 mil-
lion, including contingencies, would be procured under ICB procedures. Appro-
priate packages would be grouped and procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Qualified domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation
of 15%, or equivalent of the import duty, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous
items of equipment, vehicles, and furniture, in packages of less than US$300,000
each and not exceeding US$4 million in total, would be procured as per Borrower's
LCB procedures and in accordance with Bank Guidelines.



- 21 -
Disbursements
74.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against normal documentation.
Disbursements would be made, however, against statements of expenditures (SOEs)
for civil works carried out by force account and for the technical assistance
and training. All documents supporting applications for disbursements under SOE
procedures would be retained by SARH for Bank review during project supervision.
The proposed Bank loan would reimburse (a) 45 percent of civil works (b) 90 per-
of equipment, and (c) 20 percent of technical assistance and training expenses.
The loan is expected to be disbursed in six and a half years. Retroactive
financing of up to US$5 million for civil works already initiated by the Govern-
ment since September 1, 1981, would be available. A schedule of estimated dis-
bursements is provided in the Loan and Project Summary.
Project Impact
75.       The proposed project is an important element in the Government's
program to develop rainfed agriculture. The underlying tenets of the project
are (a) expansion of the agricultural frontier in the San Fernando region by
bringing new land into production; (b) exploitation of the comparative advan-
tages of the region in basic grain production; and (c) acceleration of produc-
tion through diverse investments and improved agricultural support systems.
The project, by redistributing land to about 8,200 landless families, would
enhance the Government's agrarian reform program.
76.       Overall, the project would generate substantial benefits at full
development. Incremental production of the principal products--mainly
sorghum, maize, beans, sunflowers and cotton--would amount to 640,000 m
tons at full development. Incremental production of these commodities alone
would amount tc a foreign exchange savings of about US$19 million annually
in 1980 prices. The project would increase employment opportunities in the
proposed project area and decrease under-employment. At full development,
the project would generate about 1.3 million man-days in additional employ-
ment. During the course of project implementation, over 17,000 farm families
would participate actively in the development program. Cash income of bene-
ficiaries would increase considerably. On the average, family farm income
would vary between US$2,489 to US$4,239 in 1982 pesos at full development.
77.       The project would buttress the institutional capabilities in the
project area, improve research and the technical assistance delivery system
and strengthen water and soil conservation techniques. With these improve-
merits, local institutions would expand their penetration in areas contiguous
to the project. Additionally, there are also a number of indirect benefits
likely to accrue in the project area such as the stimulation of agroindustries
associated with processing of animal feed grains and brewing, and retail
operations dealing with the supply of agricultural machinery and chemicals.
In addition, the economic life in the project area would be invigorated by
the establishment of general commercial enterprises to serve the communities
in the area.



- 22 -
Economic Rate of Return
78.       The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project has been estimated
at 18 percent. The results of a sensitivity analysis to test the impact of
differing levels of costs, prices and or revenues and other factors are
outlined below.
Assumption                            Economic Rate of Return (%)
Expected best estimate                                         18.0
Aggregated benefits reduced by 20%                             14.0
Earthmoving costs increased by 30%                             15.0
Equipment costs increased by 30%                               16.0
Operation and maintenance increased by 30%                     16.0
Physical contingencies increased by 35%                        16.0
Drought period every 5 years                                   14.0
Project implementation delayed one year                        14.0
Project implementation delayed two years                       11.0
Project implementation delayed three years                      8.0
79.       A switching value test indicates that if the earthmoving portion
(major project investment cost) was increased by 72 percent, the project's
economic rate of return would be 12 percent (the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in the country). The switching value test shows also that the price
of sorghum, the main crop, would have to decrease by 32% and the price of
cotton would have to be reduced by 70 percent to lower the ERR to 12%. The
main factors that could delay project benefits are adverse weather and institu-
tional problems.  These factors would not influence any specific parameters in
isolation such as individual crop yields or area cultivated, but would have a
general impact on all crop benefits. Thus, a switching value test on the
assumption of delays in reaching full development was performed. This test
indicates that a delay of about two years in the completion of the works would
make the ERR equal to the opportunity cost of capital.
Environmental Impact
80.       The project is not expected to have any harmful effects on the
environment.  Although opening up new lands and creating open unprotected
areas may have some effect on the biological life in Tamaulipias, over
22,500 ha in the proposed project area will be retained as a wildlife reserve.
Moreover, by clearing land and increasing grain production, there would be
more grain left for the migratory and local birds to glean from the fields.
The infrastructural works (drains and ditches) should not affect the ecology of
the existing lagoons and small islands. More fresh water would be channeled,
however, into the lagoons.
81.       Since the applications of pesticides would increase in the project
area, all chemicals used would be restricted, to the extent possible, to those
that have low mammalian toxicity and low hazard to wildlife. All extension
agents would stress safety when training farmers and others in chemical use.



- 23 -
In addition, the extension agents would be expected to monitor pesticide levels
in soil and water, being particularly alert to the effects that the cotton pest
control may have on fish, birds, and beneficial insects. The agents would also
be concerned with storage, transportation, packaging and disposal of pesticide
containers. The pest control program would be closely tied in with the labora-
tory and pest control program developed in the Rio Bravo Project, where staff,
facilities and equipment exist to make the achievement of program goals possible.
Project Risks
82.       The main risks associated with the project would be (a) institutional,
(b) climatic and (c) financial. Regarding institutional aspects, the task would
be to ensure coordination between the different programs to be implemented under
SARH, SRA and SAHOP. To minimize the risk, SARH has assigned personnel to serve
as the link between SRA and SARH. Moreover, in view of extensive experience
of SARH in construction, availability of production inputs, and provision of
training for the new farmers, the risks would be minimal. The most serious
climatic risk would be drought, but the area seems to be relatively safe since
although sorghum yields vary from year to year, they have never been an outright
failure. Moreover, water conservation through the technical assistance program
will help   to reduce this risk.  Finally, although there is a risk that short-
term governmental budgetary constraints may delay local counterpart funding, the
Government has assured the Bank that high priority will be given to funding of
this project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
84.       Special conditions of the project have been described in Part IV
of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 2, 1982



- 24-                                                 MNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE,!tGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           1972.5                               MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    977.2              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                400.0       750.0    1640.0              1616.2                   2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    769.2      1141.0   1672.7               1324.1                   2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 36369.0    50313.0  65509.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.8       59.0      65.9                64.2                     53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    108.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      188.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RM.                      18.4        25.5      33.2                34.3                     80.6
PER SQ. R}S. AGRICULTURAL LAND   36.0        52.0      65.1                94.5                    133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        45.6        46.5     45.3                 40.7                     30.1
15-64 YRS.                        51.0       50.0      51.2                 55.3                    61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.4         3.5      3.5                  4.0                      8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3.1         3.2       2.9                 2.4                      1.5
URBAN                             4.9         4.8       4.2                 3.7                      3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.0        42.3      36.0                31.4                     22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    12.0         9.0       7.3                 8.4                      9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4         3.2      2.6                  2.3                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        25.1    842.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..      40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0       100.0    101.0                108.3                    119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 110.0       112.0    114.0                107.6                    125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         65.0        66.0     66.0                 65.8                     92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      27.0        27.0      27.0                34.0                     39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    13.0         8.8       5.7                 7.6                      3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   58.3        62.4     66.0                 64.1                     68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          78.0        74.0      60.0                70.9                     25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                            23.5        54.0      62.0                65.7
URBAN                              ..        71.0     70.0                 79.7
RURAL                              ..        29.0     49.0                 43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..                 59.9
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..                 75.7
RURAL                              ..        13.0      14.0                30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         1798.0      1480.6   1815.0               1728.2                    973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      1612.2   1398.0               1288.2                   896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                       **
TOTAL                           577.6       828.1    851.0                471.2                    262.3
URBAN                              ..      1151.2    758.0                558.0                    191.8
RURAL                              ..      1350.9   1077.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..        ..                   ..                     18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.4         5.7
URBAN                             5.7         5.7
RURAL                             5.2         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.9         2.5
URBAN                             2.6         2.2       ..
RURAL                             3.4         3.2       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        58.9       ..
URBAN                              ..        80.7       ..
RURAL                              ..        27.8       ..



- 25 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCCME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY.     TOTAL                 80.0        104.0     116.0                 101.7                     105.9
MALE                  82.0       107.0      119.0                 103.0                    109.6
FEMALE                77.0       102.0      114.0                 101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY,   TOTAL                 11.0         22.0      39.0                  35.3                      66.3
MALE                  14.0        27.0       42.0                  34.9                     73.2
FEMALE                 8.0        17.0       36.0                  35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 24.0           27.0       9.0                  30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHE. RATIO
PRIMARY                            44.0         46.0      41.0                  29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                          13.0         14.0      17.0                  15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        65.0         74.2      82.4                  80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         14.0         24.5      42.4                  42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         90.7        278.4     306.0                 215.0                     181.6
TV KECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.9         59.5      88.7                  89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  79.0           ..      66.6                  62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0           5.0       4.2                   3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10990.9       14488.8   18965.4
FEMIALE (PERCENT)                  15.2         17.4      19.3                  22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              55.1         45.0      36.8                  35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.5         23.0      25.7                  23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.2         28.8      29.0                  31.8                      42.3
MALE                                 51.1         47.4      46.5                  49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                                9.2         10.1      11.2                  14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6          1.7       1.7                   1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED 8Y
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.1/c        60.7      57.7.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.4/c         3.3       2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.8/c         9.9       9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     216.0                 187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     471.0                 513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     471.0                 362.2                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963.
May, 1981
* _ The- updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in the
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $2,130.0 (at 1978-80 prices) and 67,458
thousand.
** - Total includes specialized hospitals not included in urban/rural figures.



- 26  -                                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3Tof 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIALJ INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are draw  iro   sucsgnrlyjudged the most  -uhrritasir  sid r-                           il., it should also  he no:-t  that they say nor he ine--
nat-ionllyI opsrahle  h..eu-eof rhe laok of sadardised  defiriti-  end  -onrpts osedby dof~fe                         onrist-oletn    h  data.  The date are  ..ora-
th Iss   -setu  to destibe  orde- ofwgotue,ldiloans trends, and ohra-terie  tran oJodrfrne htno ootis
sajtvtty  of the ononirtes In a group ha  Iss  o    dthathlodowno ..tino ..a                    ....eo .nntlseo    h  Idoro    aeds.r  h    ollhln    idn
ote  indloaro  arstine  esog the ooutsy end refer nts grooys.,111nd1,                                                                               -1
-1.01  090y  (thousands-Ikm                h                                                            fonlaoo   yrr  _osita ftsd-ttlubt   r   oa       nuai                          (oa
Totl     Toalsoran   sra   nepitog  an   eys  nd  olndotoo.            rhn,  tdrurl)dinde   hyoierI             eadotlo  toSe  ofhoyitl  ad
Aglrlrrs-tnleoofgnootoalwraaeneyoorlytynnnsn_ aatabelyh.tad   ro-.   ennlnddwy-eoilalledossrladr
fordnrny, IpIurI wadr  n  k..           ohe  gaden   rt   io sin;  9              di-e.,t   - ha  hil..an  o-...rs. ..   spiyo -o_no                   saholtero   penae_  fysafs
ONE IP  - CITA  (01) -f...    pe  t.p,ita os...ns  attrrn..rr  prints  owl-ddialtar  ard t..a din lds.d  toab                                      hsyal,h -ra   Innh.d  healt
INT, -wod 1979d datan                                      .                                           nedloa9l ass. .iI' istatItne.   odfe  er.l  hm -ffa I'-atl            n   .,.,fm-
dlyo  wo yI...    de.  h leltedl r11ge ofhnedina I-hollini-           for snarls--
GNPttPERlNiltiAT(USt PR CAPIT   -plnalnnosno  ofomanle                     ineg   (no:                    nna   pu_ ossura  hoptls.... iC                        ioplgeea    oslea
ssd  lignit, yennnlem, naourw    as and hyno-,  uoea 7r gosrael-and rore h- stoa                                     .  .on ...on rura  hopta ldan  tedlIa   n aenr
-io-dny) in     . kio rans o  noe  eqlnaen   yetIt nyn;1             99   n b. 19T9 I'rrll.pr,lie   hIlnt   nninidd   nyune  ttl
daa.Adie9nspeioniroBd    fTtafanero                                                                                                                    ais ins noorOsoi           re
TotalityoniiaPto-. gid-..ar )nboossndd 1-7At of July..d;h1990,  1970, andl1979                     NO1SI-G
Ira   ooain  oneog   otl tsu   f  ra   ottl   ooain.                                                              b Pseol   Hnnpisos ofB   gou  ofT.  .n.. dw  wh.ser 1t dit-ing -as -r
aT ngmu-      nes   19id0,       t u ., ad 197  d An.                                                  tSe booseinli9Inn s9a0istlo197purposes.
Porlaio  PnOitH"O'htdnS                                                                             An....heo  y..nsenom-na o..                             ns.r......rgaom
denl,sndfeal  hod             b    - tytoent    sn f.lllw    -p 77.1b t ynr.   dThe pennnethona   ,slUns  f   elentriot_tydin lfyo  qoey n  as~ .l
wates fo  ferhi on rte aso boe  hreelenesas9slo   deottsonof _onl, ~ ura,  adntldsl  nsnepo ry
fertIlIt    1960dio  no70 indnrln:ndps   aiyyanngprot
thInyg smn l      ifs- el- rf unit-eh   rprdisinan,            It ea..h gssgewnyer  ho  adwer  Ito.1'  different length  ofpimr.                                    aoato. 
of iome  rpatan-e  Itsel  es_ l      h   ttoaypylettew    a                                         nona    ihonnre   donnsnlsn ay.                          ested      In9 ptter
sent lenel.                                                                         edo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th   ---C--tannrq inesa   las  ftu yersofbppo ,, priar  intronirn
eor sationay poruenlon  s reaned  - he yerwe.satoeypp.a.npats  geerl  nttinl,-1twIetring                                                                 aronE.frppt
siedashennahe.IsolInf  i  o  7   ersnfag;   m                                                                                                          iapwdeosoossse-enral
Onoolatiwn Dsmslon                                                              ser~~~~~~~~~f ttod1. -. ld1 1d1ig
Pe   n.L.-  1-ya   oplntnpr  qar   iosnr   ilhetre    f                                         ssaoa  ertfe_Isran    f*ssdsS       Vrti_linttoii
ontal anew; 1960, 1970 snd 1979 data.                                            isotude  tethntoal, toduetnial, or other pntgrsmm  auth  speests  tndepesd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y  MCAIO
Potuanlo                                                                                             Adieoaae(enet  -Eiden(-  er)tnrig-g    1-drmr  and1. eroneylvesdndd   ynasn   fnahesi   k
En tol         Irmqron  I Nes  reoe t -  doral -A noet. grosn j tnr  of owoe  inO                     sprensefn                    di  pplto    gd15yes50mn
yeas yrpolaniwna for iNST-hg, lNgIO-T--O, endn 19...t70-79.1IItd 
Populatin Irsenk Tans  IrIone    arkan-Annal gyof-      r_tij   e n_ f d_rhsm  pwpw-- CtNthEMPTIO
too hnr;  90  INTO, an  lth   daa                                                             rarseoses    olrprtesn    fpptno;srss    e
hernomlrrdotv peidishepainepret agespatfh    fa-                                                      et  se  i  effan    f-e  dIfry  retna y9ars ma  toe t he dmpea-t         sn
nIl m   yats. uuallyf iv-yes   anerges  o dig in1960  1970  sod199.mais 1ane-shboised   rssng
Pa ty h.eiaAoros,dna   trsne -yMotel0rashe  of anep Iors                                          TN Psisiera ins                 I.o-ad  onlais b-  TOh reftmesl       edaaa
ofhinh-ono    ete    O              u        Iie    fntoa   etyplsIn                                 general pohilo  pe  t.sos1e  p,.palaf..n;    .Crtoesantred ad        rtaier
steno otkildkarn   ae(5-Yyer)ahisekrh-nnrldeis tltheor  itoeiodierteoadr_aetn)-                                                                                 Znstesorgetn
al   artdi     ws.mesreesoo.rleo   of. 'daily-general interes                                                                                   t  n   I'ap pst",  eie    aprsi
P  "I1 ll flITITO                                                                                      te he 'daly' fIi  app-sr-a   t....n fistynme  anemia.-Ii.i
970nlaeas  rdrrpirnegi;16-5,iT,ad17  dana197stat taker Porte  thrses      ees lyaieprs                                                                             nidn
qninsusd InCodpro           hing lad   ase   in-1    diatriburknt-n. ffqtim-           Petolreeron    - Idrr tsro dini. famig  ferrant=                       - ka ni   hsd
bosaoD, t9va; 196-65  17Y, d     sd197daa.17  so.P.di197  d _ste.
Pe  .1iasotEo   rasn(ra  ner darN"I.        --lo Prnirneso   e   spt                           ParitiraionRte-         enss  -  oa,   ae   adfa                  -     d Patiitdne
me     Inyt  ofIndprdy gespyo ffood t_  define   as abs7a..Pa                                  st tty 'rtes - are  to-ywnd a  nIt            ~ mae 1n5sae  ao   sr
qoirrmeis losall noatnirs  siablisad  by  ilA  pnotde a n sinimm                      yartneeges  f nwnar   mishad femae pepalbime e  eti agCONSUMnPnItN
flosnr of 60gas   f  ralpn196prda0n  1   assofaiml0e                                             NgI   97,ae   N7dan.Ths1aehar7n0L'spr7wpain  ae
an.. imah pCSt sa   vrg    ertewn,peea   yPA   oteTidIogt esrnd                                                         -o  Ptio-.   Patir of ps  Pulatt   ondr  15 sad      i. 65sa  o-
C ldsrld       .  PomO  urre  d 19 1-A    19I n -17 hdn.                                              so  nbthsotalIshfr idny-
sireda tamanimas as  paAlse   . in -grams pee  day;   ..b-60  197  and-,. 197dnaIN                                                                               h ITIsT
EbPtid lease        ,.111-a    itatnPt   ertomsd       matdah    a  thoas97nd  in                    Perennaee ofr (Priat Inno... dbt  inp natsh  and ~ kind)    - ertndhrrrh
tr,Ies- dat  Oind-fine life  tifes hNI.            17   nd17  dt,ofkoehI
an  ink   t90,  970end11770ae.                                                                   ad   besd9b9inarp .sa  nIt   -msdeal  onies,b..ptbII--
eFsniY Par...Iy RAts pe thosadl-  osa  dats"finans  ndron  yar                                        gaiatd   bslo       1Pseiy   aseLeel179$1t _na)-  remma ttaY
bar  f pnple(tonl,  rhan  so  rotaed nitb    ) rasmal  snore  tn:nferabs
estermaths  thatfrom   noiered  boshele, sprngs,  nd saitar   meilts  asNtlrltvIoet                                 d-ostvei   nrnb                .fIaerag   pars pi-ta
:earsesnighi of theirn rapsi4 eoaIan.inns nbsssaptli                                                  prss l tote   rfh          wn   ry:;t~ . Uralni  .divdrethcol
feo_stat  s4tsda    ersd   o  mre  hni.                 mtr)fo       oa   a he it---1d,..t           lee   m    daen    a   ihrrs   ftimingf inaTV                     as
Mes. n  Esset Ilroml lstora  f sioltiw   -  wnin sbae  teiraal1
pInd eetfgMs of thsimm tsap 1nn 6m pasalsatees.      _Rarrena diPsas  ampi, isnlmds                           ".ly   f  t  P.
iNs  allstia a    dipssldith  at attbeo          I n 1sa dana  of. bmnd srrata
an   as 1vaa  by2n eata-bosasyss   O  taISafpi  pivsae  asi.nonma  ad                                                                               hata   Data Piise
Car  sattlasats        f:renemin i..t  .I                                                                                                     sealydsts and Pstirtfs         rpain  n
Peeslatise ear Pvsiesse - Pspalato dvie   by yobt. wf pdsasinipbst-Payt..
otass qoaliftad tram a madiost soheol at osiverstay lenal. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~         ~        ~       ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ .L
Prsolntweear Nrsis  Psrso- Ppolaten  ivnm    yesa   fpeirn
sale.. fm feaegrdstenr.s   rosfatntt,In   asaat  oas



- 27 -
MEIO    coNOMC SqEVILOPWOI SALTAISH-EET                       ANNEX 1
A C T        U     A0    1                           lsilMt-                                                           Groth Sates                       As.4 of 00Y
19-70       1975          19 77        1979          1980         19-81           82           13             19=85      1970 -75    19795-80     1980-es    1970    1980        1985
NATIONAL ACCCUNS                                Cesatoet 1972 PLsos, GPO$ Millios
GDP                   36,971.7   48,508.4    50,966.2         59,836.1    63,119.3    67,512.9          50.{7,4         72110.7      78,395.45.                                4.3       99.7    96.9    97.8
Gobs  i to-oe            120.1        688.5        352.2         792.6      2,049.5       1,461.1         ,706.9        1,41.5         1,801.4   6-            -5                         0        313.
of trade                                                                                                                                                                                 .        .        .
GD1                   37,091.8   49,196.9    51,318.5         59,628.7    65,168.9       68,974.0       7!.578.3       73,852.2      80,196.8       6.2         5.8            3.7      100.0   100.0   1090 
Ilports (I.Ie.NPS)   4,411. 3      6,661.0       4,891.6       7,677.8    15,087.6       13,108.4        7,151.0       13,016.4      15,135.9    11.1           8.9            4.3       11.9    15.5    18.9
Is.pro t3~273.0                     3,767.8s     4,419.3       5,932.4      7,029.5      14,719.2       ll, 251.5      13,173.3      15, 124.7      5.8        13.6            8.5        8.8    10.0    19.9
Reso.re...             1,136.3    28.2             400.3       1,745.4      3.058.3       1,389.2        1,199.3         -156.9           11.2    29.7          1.1          -24.0        3.1      4.7 
Ceesospslso  50,935.2   40,8'19'76.    41,999.5      417,859      51585         51,401.9       52,6990.9      53,203.8      97,786.6       6.1         4.8            2.3       85.4    78.8    72.1
Is---eeo.              7,174.8   10,527.9        9,360.0      12,777.6    14,819.1       17,500.0       10,380.0       16,750.0      70,629.0       9.4         5.5            5.6       19.3    72.7    25.7
Gross Do.. S-riogs   6,156.6    8,318.2          9,327.0      11,824.9    13,810.4       17,572.1       18,887.4       20,648.4      22,410.2       6.9        10.6           9.3        16.6    21.2    .27;9.
Gros  Not.OS-iogs   5,820.6         7,541.7      8,478.4      10,591.9    12,749.7       11.032,8       17,896.4       19,073.2      21,090.1       6.2        10.0            8.8       15.7    18.8    38.3
TRADE IN 00005 10 1FS                              Sos-ee  prI-e, 00  Milliossns                                                                                                           % ofTotal
IMP0R1S, TOTA         3,4-16.9    8,636.7       7,~855.0q    17,052.9    25,596.3    32,71.9ZA         350,81,.2      33,727.0      45,149.5      23.5        2.4            10.3L    1000       008         0
C..... ptiso             472.0        949.7        779.2       1,838.8      4.085.6       3,266.9        5.295.8        5,251.6       9,210.7      22.2        36.8           13.3       13.8    15.9      20.4
o.f whic h:   000d       (77.6) 1/  499.3         0 7 5.1     1,086.2      2,956.2       3,654.3        3,305.3       4,389.0        5,242.6       -          21.7           11.4        2.3    11.8      11.6
Poccol.. &Pro.doct       35.0        269.1        107.5         259.2        299.4         -              --             -             -          39.         25.1            -          I1.5     1.2      -
lio-F-t-o  Services  1,064.7    22022.9          1,934,3       4,915.5      6,962.2       9,484.1        9 147.5        9,483.3      11,858.8      12.7        29.0            9.1       51.2    77.7    06.3
Ocher Goods            0,944.9    5,595.0        5,034.0      10,039.4    14,249.1       17.983.9       16.438,1       18,992.1      24,080.0      17.8        17.2            9.6       54.0    55.7      5:
O8T-O.TOITAL.          5,241.4      6,051. 7     2,295.1      15,859       15,3569.      29,049.5       21,946 .5     55,760.2       466.1          98         30842                    100 100           680
SelIoted Agelcol-
oolGood             621.2       814.9      1,439.0       2,153.4       0,041.6      1,786.1        22021.0        2,309.8        2,965.9      6.5         20.2          10.2       22.6      8.2      6.4
Pcoo 4Psodoct       58.4       460.1      1,229.4       3,974.2    10,422.5    14,653.9           2550.         13,350.0      19,126.6      61.0         87.8          15.5        1.4    44:2    42.8
Slserals          ~~~~~~244.3  1423.4      1440.9        9,05.2       1,346.5       :1,197.8       1:,567.2      1,560.9        1,987.2      16.9        25.5            9.0       8.9      5.8       6.3
flooo-   se              443.9    1,16.9         1611.0        2351.7        2,537.3      2,77.6         2,570          3,352.8       4,325.2      26.53       18.5           14.98      16.2     10.       9.3
Och-r foods                           119.5         29.9            1.7          3.2          0.8            7.1           11.3           24.5                  19.5.
to-facto  Soovce   1,397.7    5,077.2            3,193.9       5,999.7       7,418.6      9,229.3        22.50.2       13,925.9      17,634.7      19.3        20.5           19.7       50.9    31.3      38,8
108D0 1001010 (1572-100)                          A-srogs 72110C
tEp-ct Price  edee        98.2        041.4        175.2         262.4         307.0        392.4          399.3          414.3         469.3      16.6         25.5           4.9
Impar't  rbs_I'de-        91.0        149.3        164.1         187.9         207.9        229.1          2720.3         73 7. -       273.1      07.5         6.1            5.1
Tors  of Trade             96.9       109.1        106.6         140.0         176.5        171.3          131.3          175.4         171.8       2.5        12.4            -0.3
VAL00 A000D BY SECTOE                            Co-slst 4071 Price, 7U05 Millies
Pri-ay                 14,15911    14,485.4    14,771.6        4,955.7      5,227.9       6,547.3        4 620.6       6,893.7        7,456.2       1.7         3.4             4.1      01.2      8.3      95
Sc-d,r                12,417.3   16,949.7    18.245,7         22,084.6      23,978.5    25,920.8        26,469.7      27,1597.9      29,589.5       1.1          7.             3.4      33.6    387.8     396.5
T-rio-y               20,415.3   27,376.3       77,945,9      31,795.8      54,013.6    35,044.7        36.773,1       38,039.0      42,359.7        5.8         4.8            5.0      55.2    53.9    54.0
Total GDP             36,971.7   48,509.4       50,966.2      59.936.1    63,119.3    67,512.8          77S 871.4     72,110.7       78,395.0        6.0         3.6            4.2     109.0   108.0    108.0
CONSOLIDATED PUBL1C 00010  050AN111                  Millios  1972 055
Cor-ee  Eoc.lPcs       55953.5      9,509.8    10,605.6       13,671.9    15,867.9       16,218.7
Correct topoed.        4,300.1    9,016,4        9,207-9      12,953.5    12,491.4       13,979.7
Osh,Il  Saving         1,533.1        503.6      1,4062.7      2.821,5       3,386.5      2,240.2
Sos,oscseot     2,2~~~~77.9    4,993.7    4,426.3       6,825.3       6,9937.2     7,990,1
Rolicic  4XrLS    ~~~666.1    4,356.9     2,927.0        3,959.2      4,90 7.       5,61
G-e-rl Proce Isdoe    90.4            159.7       239.4          331.1        418.2         539.2
(197 2=1 00)
lE-hooge Sacs           12.49         12.49       22.58          22.91        22.93          26.22 2/
A.LGOCATION OP 118900
P08LIC 011T01 11X008D-                                                                                                       Ors-h Eases              As % of Total
I1U00S                                                                                                                                                      1979
0E-0                   3,369.1    6,474.0        7,736.9      10,549.5                                                            1 .a  8.4                  33.3
Tr-nepor  aed Cor-
-oiesti...           1,750.1    1,503.3        1,537.4       1,405.2        to             ..-3.4                                                           4.4
Social  op-sditro4219              4602.9       4,771.8        5.338,3       2..           e                                        .3                      16.9
Ilodstry               1,640.      1,433.6       1,392.4        1,829.5       e..           0,2838
Agrlci. 4 &ro_Ire   1,977.1    1,617.5           1 562,7        1,474.3       e.            eo-7.1                                                            0.7
Ceo  Admliocct-tiee
6 Defes.e           3,290.8    5,160.9       5,552.2        9,594.1        e..           es                                     9.9                       29.6
Comeeree         ~~~~1,530,7    1,436.9    1,785.2        0,644 .3       ..                                                 -1.8                        5.2
Tooiss                     63.2        73.5         53.9           60,3       es              ..1.00.
Total19,843.9   22323.7    24 392.5                           3,0.-c.                       n.1.                                                            100.0
jl,t83. 0                                               12.440105  97-8
S~ELECTED IN0001817175080-8
ICOR                        2.62        3.60         6.94           2.50       4.31          3.37             3.98       3.66
Import El-scicisy           2.60        0.60        -4.6            5,99       4.61          4.30             1.64       2.90
Ol-gisal Os-iegs Ratio   2.61           0.73          0.17           0.019     0.17           0.16            0.16       9.24
LABOR POREC                         In OlOlloes.                         80    o  Ttol1                          Groth Nose
1560         1970          1979     0960            1973           19-79         19G60m-79    -197-7908
Ages-eso-                    5,4          4.5           4.9     50.            34.9            29,1          -16.7            89
Ieosy2.1                                  2.7          3.7      19.6            2.8            2.             20.6           37.
b-o.o.                       3.2          57           9.2      29.9           40.2            48.g           79.0           43.9
Total                       0.           0.   1         6.      000            10.9190                        20.             31.0
0V2.00 ADDED PER 80880R               1972 Price-                           % of Total                           Iroth lose
________________--   P~~~96 1q~    973          1978    1960             1970            1980         1960-70        -1970 -79,
Agnioslste                608.3          919.5       1,010.4  134.7           132.1           131.6            4,4             1.4
I'd"stry                2,469.9        4,388.8       3,421.6  140.6           160.1           6167.9            .32.,2
Serei..                 3,222.8        3,582,5       3,600,0  163.6            125.0          111.3 5 
Total11,733.6                          2,865,9       3229.0  1000              100.0          100.0             2Q1.6
1/  Th. clos ... iOai-oi  for this seies has heco oh-gieg  Therfor  the figore  sighs  -0  -epro-o   --tsly she eas  e-it-ri  oer the yos.-
2l DSec.sher 33, 1991
No Rlegibl.i
Apr11 1982



Annex 1
- 28 -                                                                          Page 5 of 5
BALAhC. Or PAYMENTS EXTRRNAl ASSISTANCE AND DEBf
(US$ Million; Current Prices)
Prelim.
A    C    T    0    A    L                                --      REstimates
1970           1975            1977            1_979          1980            1981        .            19S2            19S3             1985
Sumnary Balance of Payments
Exports (including NFS)                 2,745.4        6,081.7         7,795.1        14,965.9       23,199.7       29,049.5                 28,946.5         35,260.2         46,464.1
Imports (including NFS)                3,416.9         8,636.7         7,855.0        17,052.9       25,596.3       32,714.9                 30,891.2         33,727.0         45,149.5
RBesorce Balance                         -671.4       -2,555.0           -59.9       -2,087.0        -2,396.6        -3,665.4                -1,934.7          1,533.2          1,314.6
Interest, net                            -307.0       -1,266.5        -1,811.0       -3,029.4        -4,416.0       -7,576.5                 -8,441.8         -9,328.4       -10,330.0
Direct Investment Income                 -267.5         -657.5          -401.4          -590.9         -772.3          -781.6                  -790.9           -800.4           -819.6
Workers' Remittances                      122.7           174.6          251.0           320.0          370.0           423.3                    484.2           554.0            725.0
Carrert Transfers, net                     55.3          123.4           168.5           223.9          268.2           308.0                    356.7           410.2            542.4
Current Account Balance               -1,067.9        -4,181.0       -1,852.8        -5,163.4        -6,946.7      -11,292.2                -10,326.5         -7,631.4        -8,567.8
Private Direct Investment                 322.8          748.8           555.9           971.9        1,313.0         1,410.0                 1,461.6          1,508.5          1,639.9
Public Med. 6 Long Tern Loans, net    258.6            3,565.8         3,972.4         3,146.7        4,058.5        11,148.2                10,256.9          7,688.0          8,781.9
(Disbursementa)                        821.3        4,418.6         6,232.3        10,415.0         7,771.1       16,858.6                 14,604.3        12,191.7         18,405.0
(Repayments)                          -562.7          -852.8       -2 295 0        -7 285.9       -3 723.4        -5,711.3                 -4,347.4        -4,503.7         -9,623.1
Other Capital                             588.6           31.5       -2,071.3          1,463.7        2,726.1        -1,201.0                    -
Change in Reserves (-     iscrease)   -102.1            -165.1          -504.2          -418.9       -1,150.9           -65.0                --1,392.0        -1,565.1         -1,854.0
Grant and Loan Commitments
Public Med. & L.T. Loans
IBRD                                      146.8          116.2           162.0           527.0          625.0          645.0
IDA                                        -              -
Other Xultilateral                        112.4          165.4           122.0           274.5          358.0           379.6
Governments                                78.8                          291.6           274.2          694.6          n.a.
Suppliers                                  69.7          200.5           705.9            26.0           58.6           390.0
Banks and Financial Institutions          443.5        1,050.5        8,370.2         12,000.0        4,996.2        19,000.0
Debt and Debt Service                                                                                                                                     External Debt
Public Debt Outstanding 6
Disbursed (end of period)             3,238.0        11,541.7       20,420.7        28,901.7        34,612.7        56,601.2                                       Outstandiag & Disbursed
Interest on Public Debt                   218.0          850.4         1,327.2         2,901.2        3,589.4         4,695.8                                       on Dec. 31, 1980
Repaynenn on Public Debt                  475.6          762.6         2,333.1         7,826.8        3,867.7         5,059.9
Public Debt Service                       693.6        1,612.9        3,660.3         10,728.0        7,457.1         9,755.7
Public M 6 IT    $ Millions         0
Burden on Export Earnings (E)                                                                                                                            Loans
a. Public Debt Service                  24.2            25.8            45.5            69.1           30.4            33.6
b. rublic Debt Service 6                                                                                                                           IBD               2063.3         5.9
Direct ITnvsctment  nco=e           33.5            36.3           50.5            72.9            32.8            36.3                      Other Off.
Sources            2377.3        7.1
Average Terms of Publie Debt                                                                                                                       Other Private
a. Interest as T of prior year's                                                                                                                    Sources          29238.0        86.8
D.O. and D.                          7.4            10.2            8.3            11.5            12.4           11.0
b. Amortization as X of prior
year's D.0. and D.                  16.3             9.2           14.6            31.1            13.4           10.7                       Total               33678.6      100.0
IBRD Exposure
a. ITRD D.O. 6 D. as 0 of
Public D.O. and D.                  18.0             9.7            6.7             6.0             5.9            4.5
b. IB0D Debt Service as 2 of
Public Debt Service                  7.7             7.2            4.2              2.1            3.2             2.0
t Debt and Debt Service figures for 1981 are estimated on the basis of Jan.-Sept. data.
April 1982



- 29 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1982) 1/
Loan                                                       Amount less      Undis-
No.       Year   Borrower                  Purpose        Cancellations    bursed
44 loans fully disbursed                  2,438.6
970-5    1974  NAFINSA                   Irrigation              47.0        4.2
1022      1974  NAFINSA                   Airports                25.0        0.2
1053-5    1974  NAFINSA                   Integrated Rural
Development          38.0       15.2
1111-5    1975  NAFINSA                   Irrigation              50.0       21.3
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                  Water Supply           40.0        11.8
1420-5    1977  NAFINSA                   Tourism                42.0         3.0
1462-5    1977  NAFINSA                   Integrated Rural
Development         120.0       25.1
1552-5    1978  NAFINSA                   Industry               47.0         1.0
1553-5    1978  NAFINSA                   Agriculture            56.0        36.8
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                  Urban Development       16.5        9.2
1560-5    1978  NAFINSA                   Industry              100.0         4.9
969-6    1979  NAFINSA                   Irrigation             25.0         1.2
1643-5    1979  NAFINSA                   Small-scale Agri.       60.0       51.7
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                  Highways               120.0       80.8
1686-5    1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA      Industry               80.0        36.6
1706-5    1979  NAFINSA                   Irrigation             92.0        82.7
1712-5    1979  NAFINSA                   Industry              175.0        97.4
1820-5    1980  NAFINSA                   Small and Medium
Scale Mining        40.0        36.1
1858-5    1980  NAFINSA                   Irrigation            160.0       159.2
1881      1980  NAFINSA                   Small and Medium
Scale Industry      100.0       54.7
1891-5    1980  NAFINSA                   Agricultural Credit  325.0        262.1
1908      1981  NAFINSA                   Irrigation             23.0        21.0
1913      1981  BANOBRAS                  Water Supply          125.0       117.4
1929      1981  BANOBRAS                  Railways              150.0       118.3
1945      1981  NAFINSA                   Rainfed Agri.         280.0       249.3
1964      1981  BANPESCA                  Port Development       14.0        14.0
1990      1981  BANOBRAS                  Urban Development II 164.0        164.0
2042      1982  NAFINSA                   Technical Training    90.0         88.7
2043      1982  NAFINSA                   Integrated Rural
Development         175.0      175.0
TOTAL                                           5,218.1 2/
Of which has been repaid to the Bank              812.8
Total now outstanding                           4,405.3
Amount sold                    92.3
of which has been repaid       92.3                 0.0
Total now held by Bank 2/                       4,405.3
Total undisbursed                                          1,942.9
1/   Following loans made in FY1982 to NAFINSA were approved by the Executive
Directors but have not yet been signed:
2100, for US$180 million, for an Irrigation Project.
2142, for US$152.3 million, for a Capital Goods Industries Project.
2154, for US$60 million, for a Pollution Control Project.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



_ 30 _
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                 US$ Million
Year           Obligor                     Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/                Industrial Equipment    0.8        --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5            --      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/             Twist Drills               0.3      --      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.                Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/                Steel                     0.9      0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/          Sodium Sulphate           0.7      --      0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --             2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/         Iron Ore Mining           1.5      --      1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.          Textiles                  12.0      --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper                2/       2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                    15.9      --    15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                    1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                     12.0      3.2   15.2
1978/81  Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper             9.0      3.5   12.5
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals               19.0      --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/        Cement                   100.0      --   100.0
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                    --       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey,           Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                          and Cable            18.0      --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard                25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass                  114.9      --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                   110.0      --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper               59.5      --    59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.                          Agri-Business             11.3      3.0   14.3
Total Gross Commitments                                  514.6    36.6  551.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                              382.0    22.1  404.1
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                        132.6    14.5  147.1
Total undisbursed (including participants)                35.4      1.5   36.9
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 31-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   Status of Projects in Execution (as of March 31, 1982). 1/
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979).  Progress is now
satisfactory and the project will be completed on schedule.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  US$25 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974. Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Although behind schedule, this project is proceeding satis-
factorily. Project components that have been completed are
achieving higher rates of utilization than envisaged at time
of appraisal because of greatly increased air traffic in
Mexico. Four of the six project airports are completed, and
the other two will be finished by mid-1982.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  US$50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$38 million;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975. Closing Date:
December 30, 1982.
Project implementation experienced delays mostly due to management
difficulties and inadequate budget support. At the borrower's
request US$12 million of the loan were cancelled on March 5, 1981.
A reprogramming of the project and extension of the closing
date to December 30, 1982 were approved by the Executive Directors
on January 4, 1982 to allow completion of the modified project.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: US$150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently
reduced to US$50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development
over a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope
of the project to be financed under the Bank loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
most components of the revised project is now satisfactory.
The project is expected to be completed ahead of schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



. 32._
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1984.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, fully committing the loan. Five out of seven
subprojects have been completed and works are progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  US$42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After extension of the closing date by one year, due to
difficulties in internal coordination, the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  US$120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily; major efforts to
decentralize project planning and execution have been made.
The result is increased beneficiary participation and
better coordination between executing agencies at the field
level. However, decentralization, reprogramming of micro-
region investment plans, and several changes in management
have resulted in delay in project execution; the closing
date will have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. The loan has been fully
committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank. Project
authorities are making good progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule. Disbursements
are improving.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component and the training centers are
progressing satisfactorily. Progress has also been made in the
production credit component, but delays still remain in the
implementation of the industrial premises and river control
components and the studies. A request from the Borrower for
reallocating funds to the shelter-related components is
expected soon.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The loan has been fully committed.
Ln. No. 969-6  Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to
be completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural
development has been slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened to
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects to be included in
the Project have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation of withdrawal applications.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979 and because of delays
in submitting reimbursement applications to the Bank. The
authorities have agreed to increase budget allocations and
speed up disbursement requests.



- .34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Orders for most of the equipment have been placed and about
30 percent of the construction work is committed with about
22 percent completed. The project is now about 17 months
behind schedule and runs the risk of further delays unless
implementation arrangements are improved. FERTIMEX's manage-
ment is considering steps to improve implementation.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Project implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong, and
most of the loan has been committed.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is being initiated. Demand for credit
has been less than originally anticipated due to softening
of mineral prices.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Contracting for the main civil works is progressing satisfactorily
and a strengthened technical assistance program is underway.  How-
ever, disbursements are lagging behind due to delays in processing.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About one-third of the loan has been committed. The program
is making satisfactory progress.
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen. The review
panels in the regional offices for speedy loan processing have
been established.



_ 35 _
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Project implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Subloan agreements have been signed between BANOBRAS and seven
cities, and investment proposals amounting to 88 percent of
project costs have been submitted to the Bank. Completion of
works is ahead of schedule in Toluca and Queretaro, but overall
the project is one and a half years behind schedule due to
delays in completion of final designs.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$280 Million Loan
of March 2, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Project implementation has begun on schedule. Staffing of the
ten project districts is near completion, and district operational
committees have been established.
Ln. No. 1964   Ports Development Preparation Project:  US$14.0 Million Loan
of May 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date: August 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is on schedule; about 40 percent of the
loan has been committed.
Ln. No. 1990   Second Urban and Regional Development Project:  US$164 million
Loan of August 13, 1981; Effective Date: January 12, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Signing of subsidiary loan agreements is still proceeding. Good
progress is taking place in the shelter-related component in
Tabasco, but the remaining components are suffering delays.
Ln. No. 2042   Technical Training Project:  US$90 Million Loan of July 31,
1981; Effectiveness Date: November 25, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding rapidly.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 2043   Integrated Rural Development (PIDER III):  US$175 Million
Loan of November 6, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 5, 1982;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
Micro-regional offices have been established and staffed.
The Government has prepared the monitoring and evaluation
plans for all micro-regions under the project and these are
satisfactory to the Bank.  The training programs are now under
preparation.
Loans approved in FY1982 but not yet signed:
Ln. No. 2100   Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project II:  US$180 million Loan of
Effectiveness Date:                ; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
This loan, approved by the Executive Directors on March 16, 1982,
has not yet been signed.
Ln. No. 2142   Capital Goods Industries Development Project:  US$152.3 Million
Loan of                  ; Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan, approved by the Executive Directors on May 13, 1982,
has not yet been signed.
Ln. No. 2154   Pollution Control Project:  US$60 Million Loan of
Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
This loan, approved by the Executive Directors on May 25, 1982,
has not yet been signed.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
SAN FERNANDO RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country
to prepare project:                         About 24 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                        Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources (SARH)
(c)  First preparation mission:                  November 1979
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission              August 1981
(e)  Negotiations completed in:                  May 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              October 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The Government will take the necessary actions to cover the
operation and maintenance costs, and as much as practicable of the
investment cost, of the drainage and adjacent road facilities in
the project area in accordance with the recommendations of a socio-
economic study which will be carried out in accordance with
provision of the Federal Water Law (para. 71).
(b) The Government will undertake a study of grain movement and storage
under terms of reference agreed between the Government and the Bank
and furnish it to the Bank not later than December 31, 1983
(para. 54).
(c) Beneficiaries of the project would be provided with short-term,
medium-term and long-term credit as and when required to use the
facilities included in the project (para. 61).



1
4
I
(b
I



JoNrevo Laredo  t,  -o 2 xEl7;o  :   ; g i   ;   ;   ; :;   ; = f                                                         N : j ;   , j t   : z  U N I T EE  STATES
DiozOrdajz                   m                H;dal9o;; ;; fU .N:1 T iE Dt0    S 05 T AT E S; 4. 1  E D  STAtCE                                                                 M    f
/? l f '2n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tor1ucc
M0016   ~ ~   ~     ~      ~      ~     ~    ~     -~~~R~io Broo-
- k <> <->. ! w tt - r . - ~~~~Valle Hermoo.2S
~ / ';; zU
Mendez 6j io rdrSnluto
KI=\ LoMErseRs                                                                                                        ___Pfiet_r2d
0                 10               20          Soc Fe,4dz                           -                                                              C -S rf vedrt4in ~ gs
Rioc  -~~~~~EMo                     io
Off,Le.s 10y 20dOO.t Son In. .~.I    yferyt.,.tO,yy,.Iw .ydy, ,n Bias
rh  P as se r p P y te WOd wE  st Y chswJyh rIh.ELOPMENT  PRIncROJECTv92 
of the PwU of the 1s on to wh ch /t ob d T~l C row #ewu    hSUtJ/2S>i
boundnas ho on th s w p do nor sopl y on tee Pr of hs Wor/d DrfPROJECT /OMPONEYN fS:
hxl atws ahY /udz ent an Ih br. SlulbO Of any o nto r o/ 07> ow0_l'    Go ;                                              eot,.proposed s_ s



