Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15229
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2520-TH)
DECEMBER 29, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia-Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Baht (B)
Average used in appraisal estimates: (September 1984): US$ = B 27.0
Actual yearly average market values: l/
US$ = B 27.16 (1985)         US$ = B 25.59 (1990)
= B 26.30 (1986)             = B 25.52 (1991)
= B 25.72 (1987)             = B 25.40 (1992)
= B 25.30 (1988)              = B 25.32 (1993)
= B 25.70 (1989)             = B 25.30 (1994: 6 months)
Weighted average of loan disbursements
for Baht expenditures: US$ = B 25.47
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m     =    meter (3.28 feet)
sq m  =    square meter (10.8 square feet)
cu m  =    cubic meter (35.3 cubic feet)
km    =    kilometer (0.62 miles)
rai   =    0.16 hectare or 0.395 acres
ha    =    hectare (6.25 rai or 2.471 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAB  -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
DOLA  -   Department of Local Administration within MOI
LGDO  -   Local Government Development Office
MDF   -   Municipal Development Fund
MOI   -   Ministry of Interior
NESDB -   National Economic and Social Development Board
NIDA   -   National Institute for Development Administration
OUD    -   Office of Urban Development within MOI
NHA    -   National Housing Authority
PMU    -   Project Management Unit
PPD    -   Public Prosecution Office
PWD    -   Public Works Department within MOI
RCDP  -   Regional Cities Development Project
RTG    -   Royal Thai Government
TOCD  -   Technical Office for Cities Development within MOI
UNCHS -   United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
UNDP  -   United Nations Development Program
Average market value (rf) values from 'International Financial Statistics' published by the International Monetary Fund.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Wauhlngton, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
O0fic of th Dirdor-Gerl
Options Evwluon
December 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Thaland
Regional Cities Development Project (Loan 2520-TH)
The Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Thailand: Regional Cities Project (Loan 2520-T1
approved in FY85) was prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part II contributed by
the Borrower. The Loan for US$27.5 million was approved on April 23,1985, and closed on June 30,
1994. A total of US$9.3 million was cofinanced by the Australian Government, UNDP, and the United
Nations Centre for Human Settlements (UNCHS). A sum of US$7.2 million was canceled at the
Borrower's request and an undisbursed balance of US$0.44 million was also canceled.
The project was the first Bank supported project of its kind in Thailand. Its objectives were to:
stimulate economic development in the three poorest regions by strengthening four key municipalities as
productive urban centers; increase their financial autonomy; and help reduce migration to the central
region. The project comprised: (i) improving selected basic infrastructure in the project cities; (ii)
enhancing their administrative and financial performance and the central government's capacity to assist the
municipalities through technical assistance and policy changes; and (iii) establishing a fishport and a
commercial/industrial area in Songkhla, one of the project cities.
Physical achievements exceeded the appraisal estirnates. More than 450,000 people in the four
cities benefited from the infrastructure improvements. Slum upgrading improved the environment of low-
income areas. The Songkhla fishport has begun operating. In the project cities, local revenues increased
substantially due to the improved tax base and collection efficiency, but the net improvement in financial
performance was marginal because of a rapid increase in operating expenses. The project contributed
significantly to the new accounting, budgeting, and management systems in the project cities and to the
central govemnment capacity to assist development of provincial cities. The estimated economic rate of
return for physical components was 30 percent. Project preparation (6 years) and implementation (8 years)
took a long time because of the need to arrange complex inter-agency coordination, and slow procurement
procedures, shortages of skilled labor and materials, and late addition of previously deferred contracts.
The main lessons were: (i) participation of officials at all levels in project preparation and
implementation resulted in a strong project ownership and contributed to the cooperation of communities to
be benefited; (ii) the project achievements could dissipate unless legislative measures are introduced for
strengthening the cities' revenue generating capacities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I     official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



2
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory and its institutional development impact as moderate. The
sustainability of project benefits is uncertain because of the growth of operating costs which threaten the
funding of the operations and maintenance programs of each project city. The PCR is good, but it does not
elaborate on the potential project contribution to enhancing the productivity of the regional cities in less
developed provinces.
The project may be audited.
Attachments



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2520 TEl)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .............................. .......................... i
Evaluation Summary ......................... ....................... ii
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity .......................  ........................ 1
Background .........................  ....................... 1
Sector Background and Development Objectives .......................... 1
Project Background and Objectives ...........                                          ................ I
Project Description ...................... ....................... 2
Description ........................ ........................ 2
Revisions ........................... 2
Project Organization, Design and Preparation .........  ................... 2
Project Organization .................... ......  ................ 2
Project Design and Preparation .............. ..................... 3
Project Implementation .................... ...................... 3
Loan Processing and Project Start-up ............................ 3
Procurement ..........................                                                                                           4
Implementation ........................... 5
Project Costs and Financing ...................................... 5
Loan Allocations and Disbursements ............ .................... 6
Project Results ....................... ......................... 6
Physical Results ........................... 6
Financial Results ........................... 6
Economic Results ........................... 7
Institutional Results ................... ........................ 7
Project Sustainability ........................... 8
Bank Performance .......................  ...................... 8
Borrower/Implementing Agency Performance ........... ................. 9
Performnance of Consultants .                         ........................... 9
Performance of Contractors and Suppliers ............................ 9
Conclusions and Lessons Learned ............... .................... 9
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .........1 ...... I 
Introduction ........................  .......................  11
Objective ..........................  ....................... 11
Preparation ......................... ....................... 11
Cost ............................. ........................ 12
Project Scope   ........................  .......................  12
Implementation .......................... 13
Project Office and Organization ..........................  13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE (continued)
Problems and Obstacles  ................... ..................... 13
Correction Guidelines ........................  14
Relations with the World Bank ................ .................... 15
Creation of OUD and Cities' Project Teams .....................                       ...  15
Institutional Building in the Cities ........................  15
Future Project Preparation ..................  ..................... 15
PART HII: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .........                          ...............  16
1. Related Bank Loans .................... ..................... 16
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raised .........               ...............  17
3. Loan Disbursements .................... ..................... 20
4. Project Implementation: Monitoring Indicators Physical Paramneters ........ .... 22
5. Project Costs and financing ................ ..................... 24
6. Project Benefits .......................   26
7. Status of Major Covenants .......................  35
8. Use of Bank Resources .......................  38
ANNEX 1: Description of the Project ................ ................... 41
Annex 2: Details of Project .................... ...................... 42
Annex 3: Songkhla Fishport: Financial Rate of Return ......................... 46



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TEL4ILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2520-THE
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Regional Cities Development Project
in Thailand, for which Loan 2520-TH in the amount of US$27.5 million to the Kingdom of Thailand
was approved on April 23, 1985. The project was the first Bank supported project of its kind in
Thailand.
During project implementation, US$7.17 million of the loan amount was canceled at the
request of the Borrower. The loan was closed on June 30, 1994 when the undisbursed balance of
US$0.44 million was canceled. The final disbursed amount was US$19.89 million, about 72 % of the
original loan amount.
The borrower also obtained grants from the Australian Development Assistance Bureau
(ADAB), an agency of the Australian Government, equivalent to about US$6.79 million for technical
assistance on the design and management of the project, training and preparation of a future project.
During the project identification and preparation stages, the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) provided grant funds totaling nearly US$1.0 million equivalent for technical
assistance. During implementation, UNDP and the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
(UNCHS) granted US$1.5 million equivalent to finance local consultants for construction supervision.
The PCR has been prepared jointly by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Asia
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III) and the Local Government
Development Office (formerly the Office of Urban Development) Department of Local Administration,
Ministry of the Interior, Royal Thai Government which prepared Part II.






aCLUFr nacKLrouna ann IJevelnnmpnt (i )hisrthuc
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2520-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The Project and its Objectives
i.         The Regional Cities Development Project was designed to support the Government's
efforts to: (1) improve the quality of infrastructure and services in provincial urban centers which
lagged behind those of Bangkok and the central region of Thailand; (2) stimulate the economies of the
country's provincial regions by correcting key deficiencies which constrained the roles of regional cities
as service and market centers for the adjoining, primarily rural, economies; (3) reverse the trend of
increasing reliance of regional cities on financial support from the central government; and (4) improve
the capacity of the central government agencies to provide technical assistance to regional communities
(paras. 1.1-1.4).
ii.        The project concentrated on four cities in the three least developed regions, namely:
Chiang Mai in the Northern Region, Khon Kaen and Korat in the Northeast, and Songkhla in the South
(paras. 1.6 and 1.9).
iii.       Infrastructure works included in the project comprised: transportation, drainage and flood
protection facilities; waste water collection and treatment facilities; solid waste collection and disposal
equipment and facilities; a combined fishing port and commercial industrial zone in Songkhla; and slum
improvements, concentrating primarily on access, fire protection and sanitation. Technical assistance
was provided to the cities and the Ministry of Interior (MOI) for construction supervision and to
develop and implement efficient project management procedures.
iv.        The financial and institutional development components of the project included, in addition
to project management, technical assistance and training for.the cities and MOI. The objectives for the
cities were to strengthen municipal administration in planning, programming, budgeting, financial
management, revenue improvement and operation and management of infrastructure. For MOI, the
objectives were to strengthen capacity to assist municipalities and to prepare a future project.
Implementation Experience
v.         Feasibility studies, detailed design, and complementary studies of municipal administration
and finance reforms were carried out by various consulting organizations with grant aid from the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB).
Further grant aid from these agencies financed technical assistance on project management and
construction supervision.
vi.        The Bank-supported National Sites and Services Project (Ln. 1870) included studies and
advisory assistance on reform of property valuations, and the Land Titling Project (Ln. 2440), also
Bank financed, included an urban mapping program. Both of these produced invaluable inputs for this
project (paras. 1.6 and 1.33; and Part 111-1).
vii.       The Ministry of Interior (MOI) had overall responsibility for the project. Its agencies
were responsible for some of the detailed design and construction supervision, and the technical staff of



- iii -
the project cities supervised construction of some of the smaller contracts. The National Housing
Authority (NHA) *designed slum improvement components.
viii.       Various levels of the central government were responsible for policy measures and the
municipalities were responsible for implementation of measures to improve administration and
operations.
ix.        These arrangements were logistically demanding, but they proved satisfactory. This was
due largely to good cooperation between consultants and government officials and to a high degree of
participation at all stages of the project by all levels of government from the municipalities on up.
x.         The project had very long gestation and implementation periods, however; about 6 years
lapsed between project identification and the loan signing, and about 8 years more to project
completion. Delays during preparation are attributed to the complexity of the project, the politically
sensitive areas it involved, the time required to arrange grant aid, financial constraints which led to
downsizing the project after appraisal, a change in Government and, perhaps, the Government's attempt
to reduce commitment charges on a loan (paras. 1.19, 1.20, 1.22 and 1.23).
xi.         Delayed implementation of the physical components, which controlled overall project
completion, resulted from cumbersome and slow procedures for procurement and processing of
payments, some design changes, shortages of skilled labor and some materials during portions of the
construction period, and the addition late in the implementation period of previously deferred contracts
once it was clear that financing was adequate (paras. 1.26-1.28 and 1.30-1.32). The institutional
components were carried out satisfactorily over the extended implementation period (para. 1.33).
xii.        The final total project cost was about Bhat 1,118 million (about US$ 43.9 million
equivalent) before interest and other charges on the loan during construction. This was about 81 % of
the appraisal estimate of Baht 1,375 million. The savings were realized despite the addition to the
project of several sub-components and were due mainly to good project management and to price
escalation and physical contingencies which were substantially below the appraisal forecasts (paras.
1.34-1.36 and 2.10; Part I11-5a).
xiii.      The project was financed by the Project cities (22%), the Government (14%), The Bank
(45%), ADAB (15%) and UNDP and the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (4%) (para.
1.36; Part III-Sb). Disbursements from the loan were slow; the total disbursement period was about
three years longer than the original forecast. At the Borrower's request, the allocation of the loan
proceeds was revised a number of times and about US$7.2 million of the loan was canceled (paras.
1.37 and 1.38; Part 1ll-a and b).
Project Results
xiv.       The physical objectives of the project were exceeded. The infrastructure improvements in
the four cities are benefiting more than 450,000 people by reduced property loss and disruption from
flooding, improved transportation efficiency and an improved environment through the drainage, waste
water and solid wastes systems that were installed. Slum upgrading components improved access,
safety and sanitation in low-income area of three of the cities. The Songkhla fishport is operating and
promises to achieve a long term net increase in the city's revenues (paras. 1.39, 2.11; Part 111-4).
xv.        The institutional objectives were satisfied by careful introduction and phasing of changes.
MOI and other central government agencies gradually improved their capacities to provide technical
assistance to regional communities. In the project cities, tax mapping and tax rolls were completed,
fees were increased and collection efficiency has been improved. New accounting, budgeting and



- iv -
management systems were successfully installed in each municipality. Training targets were met and
trainees have generally been employed productively. While the considerable progress in these areas
resulted in a much improved revenue base and an increase of nearly 85% in local revenues in the
project citiies as a whole, without increases in land or property taxes, operating costs also increased
substantially and the net improvement in financial performance was marginal (paras. 1.40-1.45 and
1.49-1.52; Part IlIb).
xvi.       The appraisal estimate of the economic rate of return (ERR) from the project was 30%,
based on elaborate socio-economic and other special surveys. Equivalent data were not available to
calculate the ex-post ERR for the PCR. Based on qualitative judgement, however, the ERR is expected
to equal or exceed 30 %.  The internal financial rate of return (IFRR) for the fishport and
commercial/industrial zone at Songkhla, estimated at 7.6% using appraisal data, is now expected to be
about 9% on completion (paras. 1.46-1.48 and Part III-6a).
Sustainability
xvii. Achievement and enhancement of the project's potential benefits requires completion of the
operating and maintenance programs that were prepared for each project city, particularly by adequate
budget allocations and provision and training of staff.  Also, the Government should continue
introduction of legislative measures needed to enhance the cities' revenue generation capabilities, and
the cities should take full advantage of these by levying fees required to support essential services and
take steps to stem the increasing operation cost trend (paras. 1.53 and 1.54).
Findings and Lessons Learned
xviii. This was a good project, marred by extraordinary implementation delays. All planned measures
to strengthen institutions and improve financial performance were eventually taken with reasonably
success, and the physical works completed generally exceeded the project quantatative targets.
xix.        The project was complex, and the first of its type in Thailand. It involved: a variety of
construction activities with a high degree of local participation in the successful introduction of
improved project planning, management and supervision procedures; and the implementation of difficult
reforms in municipal tax bases, revenue collection and management of municipal finances and
infrastructure.
xx.        Two apparent area for criticism are over-estimation of costs and underestimation, by about
one-third, of the construction period. The cost estimates, however, anticipated continuation of a period
of inflation which, in fact, was brought under control at about the time procurement began. And about
half of the time overrun was caused by the reintroduction, late in the construction period, of works
previously deferred because of perceived financial constraints.
xxi.       The principal lessons emerging from the project are:
a)   in-depth participation in project preparation and implementation by all levels of officials
and staff contributes to the cooperation of communities intended to benefit from the
project (paras. 1.50 and 2.22);
b)   the experiences of responsible central government and local agencies can result in valuable
suggestions which should be considered seriously for improvement of future projects
(paras. 2.14-2.19);



- v -
c)   early agreement between Bank staff, the project authorities and consultants on the
organization and content of records and reports of progress and costs produces timely and
useful monitoring information (para. 1.58 and Part 111-7);
d)   the potential for project success increases if it can draw on the products of other projects,
in this case the Bank-supported National Sites and Services Project and the Land Titling
Project (paras. 1.6 and 1.33; and Part 111-1);
e)    when audit reports for a number of local entities are required by the Bank, preparation of
the reports in the national language should be adequate, provided that an appropriate local
agency reviews the audit reports and submits them to the Bank with a statement in English
confirming that the accounts have been reviewed and describing steps being taken to
implement any recommended improvements (para. 1.59).



-1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2520-TH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
1.               Project Name:    Regional Cities Development Project
Loan Number:    2520-TH
RVP Unit:       Asia Regional Office
Country:        Thailand
Borrower:       Kingdom of Thailand
Sector:         Urban Development
Background
1.1        Sector Background and Development Objectives By the early 1980's, the annual rate of
growth in Thailand's urban areas was two and one half times faster than the national growth rate,
reflecting, in part, increasing rural-urban migration. The main urban growth was in Bangkok with a
population of about 5.6 million people, 60%  of the total urban population, in the relatively
industrialized central region. The central area enjoyed a substantial advantage in economic performance
and living standards compared to the predominantly rural provincial areas, thus motivating migration to
that area.
1.2        Provision of services and social and industrial infrastructures in the regional cities lagged
well behind the central region, and responsibility for services was fragmented among various ministries,
state enterprises and the municipalities.   Conspicuous infrastructure deficiencies within the
responsibilities of the municipalities were inadequate drainage, flood protection, sanitation and road
capacity. None of the municipalities had infrastructure to accommodate urban expansion, or sufficient
technical and financial resources to deal with a growing backlog of remedial works.
1.3        All of Thailand's municipalities were administered by municipal organizations whose staff,
policies, and financial resources fall chiefly under the purview of the Ministry of Interior (MOI). The
decision making powers of municipalities were narrowly circumscribed by government regulations
which largely determined budgets and expenditure programs, the level of fees for services and the
number and quality of staff. Revenue generation was weak and the past failures to allow municipal
taxes and to keep pace with expenditures meant not only an increased drain on the central government
budget but also inadequate services and maintenance of facilities.
1.4        The Government's Fifth Plan (1982-86) included emphasis on improving economic
efficiency and distribution of services.  In support, the Bank's urban sector lending strategy for
Thailand aimed at, inter alia: strengthening the national agencies and local governments in planning,
financing and delivering urban services; and enhancement of urban centers, especially in the peripheral
regions, to stimulate economic development. For the regional cities, the emphasis was correction of the
key deficiencies which constrained their role as service and market centers to the adjoining rural
economy, thus helping them to attract productive activities.
1.5        Project Background and Objectives  During a Bank urban sector mission in 1979 to
review national policy issues affecting the development of regional cities, agreement was reached on the



-2-
scope of a project to focus on five cities located in the country's three poorest regions. They were
Chiang Mai in the Northern Region, Khon Kaen and Korat (also known as Nakhon Ratchasima) in the
Northeast, and Hat Yai and Songkhla in the South. The selection took into consideration economic
diversity, growth potential, relative administrative abilities and planned infrastructure investments.
1.6        In 1980, pre-feasibility studies, financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency,
identified major investments to overcome infrastructure deficiencies in the five cities. During 1982, as
part of the Bank supported National Sites and Services Project (Ln. 1870-TH), UNDP-financed
feasibility studies, with MOI and UNDP acting jointly as the executing agency, were undertaken
together with complementary studies of municipal administration and finance and of property valuation
and taxation. On the basis of these studies, the Bank appraised the Regional Cities Development
Project in May 1983. The study findings in respect of the project cities were not finally approved by
the Government until January 1985, however.
1.7        The project objectives were to: stimulate economic development and regional growth in
the three poorest of Thailand's six regions by strengthening the key municipalities to better serve as
market and service centers; reduce their financial reliance on the central government; and help ease the
pressure of rural to urban migration on the central region.
Project Description:
1.8        Description:  Annex 1 shows the project description from  Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement. Annex 2 is a summary of the project as described in the Staff Appraisal Report. The
project comprised:
(a)  improvement of selected basic infrastructure in the project cities, including: (i) road and
drainage improvements; (ii) wastewater disposal; (iii) solid waste collection and disposal;
(iv) flood protection; (v) new roads and bridges; and (vi) road maintenance equipment;
(b)  provision of a combined fishing port and commercial/industrial zone in one of the cities
(Songkhla); and
(c)  institutional development through policy changes and technical assistance to strengthen; (i)
administration and financial performance of the municipalities; and (ii) MOI capacity to
carrying out development programs.
1.9        Revisions  Between appraisal and negotiations, Thailand's economic circumstances
prompted the Government to reassess the investment and borrowing needs of the project. This resulted
in the revision of the project components, a reduction in the Government's contribution and a
requirement that the project cities carry a greater share of the costs. The limited local resources
expected to be available to the cities dictated deferment of some components to a future Phase 2, and
one of the original five cities (Hat Yai) declined to participate. The estimate of project costs and the
proposed Bank loan were reduced by about 50%.
1.10       Late in the implementation period, when it was clear that financing would be adequate, the
Bank approved the Government's request to increase the size of the project by adding back most of the
deferred Phase 2 components.
Proiect Organization. Design and Preparation
1.11       Project Organization The Ministry of Interior (MOI) had overall responsibility for the
project which was directed by the Director General of MOI's Department of Local administration



--3-
(DOLA). The project cities were responsible for execution with guidance by MOI which provided
administrative and technical support through DOLA and the Public Works Department (PWD)
respectively. Project units were established in each city, comprising staff responsible, on the one hand,
for improvements in municipal finance and management and, on the other hand, for the infrastructure
components including negotiating purchases of private land, tendering and supervising small-scale
works, maintaining project accounts and supervising operation and maintenance of project facilities.
1.12       PWD's Office of Urban Development (OUD), with consulting assistance, provided
technical support to the cities by: initiating and supervising acquisition of private land; providing
detailed engineering and procurement documentation; supervising procurement and construction for
large or complex works; providing assistance for the works handled by the cities; monitoring and
advising the cities on operation and maintenance; and assisting with preparation of future regional cities
infrastructure improvement projects.
1.13       OUD's responsibilities with respect to the project also included: monitoring overall
progress; supervision of the program to strengthen municipal planning and financial management;
acquisition of publicly-owned land; and coordination with the Bank, including processing of loan
withdrawal applications.
1.14       Project Design and Preparation  Preliminary planning, including feasibility, municipal
administration, finance and taxation studies, and the detailed design were well done. There were,
however, long delays in the engagement of consultants.
1.15       Preliminary planning was carried out in two stages by foreign consultants (para. 1.6): the
1980 pre-feasibility studies by one consulting firm; and the 1982/83 feasibility studies, municipal
administration and finance study and property taxation and valuation study by three other firms. The
work of the municipal administration and finance consultant was not satisfactory to the government
officials and the contract was terminated. A new contract was awarded to a joint venture of the Thai
National Institute for Development Administration (NIDA) and the local branch of a foreign financial
management firm.
1.16       There was a delay of about 10 months in the engagement of consultants by MOI for the
second stage of preliminary planning, due mainly to the fact that Moi was experiencing serious internal
difficulties and the time required to establish a steering committee and obtain Cabinet approvals.
1.17       The Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) provided financing on a grant
basis for detailed design as well as construction management. Again, there was a considerable delay in
the engagement of consultants while the Government arranged for the grant, a process complicated by
restrictions on the use of Australian funds and the dissolution of the Thai parliament before cabinet
approval for this financing was obtained. An agreement with ADAB was eventually signed and
engineering consultants mobilized in October 1983.
1.18       In the meantime, the project was appraised in May 1983. The conditions for negotiations
included the requirement that engineering consultants for detailed design be appointed, and the draft
appraisal report included a substantial amount of loan funds for detailed design and construction
management in the event that grant funds were not obtained.
Proiect Implementation
1.19       Loan Processing and Project Start-up The project had a very long gestation period; about
7 years from the first correspondence between the Bank and the Government about a regional cities
development project (1978) until the loan signing (Part III-2a). Prior to appraisal, there were 12 Bank



-4-
missions which included project identification, preparation and pre-appraisal activities (Part III-8b).
There was a period of about two years between project appraisal and loan signing in June 1985, during
which time there were two more Bank missions.
1.20       There were a number of reasons for these long periods. The project was the first of this
type in Thailand's urban sector and the Government moved deliberately and cautiously in politically
sensitive areas such as those involving land and property taxation reforms.  The Government's
requirement that all technical assistance be financed on a grant basis also led to delays while the
financing was arranged and the financing and consultant selections were approved by the Government
(paras. 1.16 and 1.17). Also, it took time for the government agencies to overcome problems caused
by lack of experience in preparing terms of reference for advisors and consultants, and by a general
reluctance of officials to use outside consultants, especially foreign.
1.21       Loan processing by the Bank after the May 1983 appraisal went well; within two months
the Issues Paper and Decision Memorandum were issued, management comments were received, and
the Government was invited to negotiate a loan of $57.4m in January 1984.
1.22       Negotiations for a reduced loan of $27.5 million actually took place in February 1985, 21
months after appraisal. The process of revising the project between appraisal and negotiations (para
1.9) was complicated by a change in government. Also, since detailed design did not start until after
the project was appraised, loan funds would not be required for some time, and it appears the
Government, sensitive to criticism about excessive commitment fees, wished to postpone negotiations
and conmmitment to a loan to as close as possible to the time of disbursements.
1.23       The latest date for effectiveness, originally September 10, 1985, was extended three times;
the loan was declared effective on January 17, 1986 (Part III-2a). The main reason for this delay was
difficulty in completing the agreements between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MOI, and between
MOI and the project cities on project financing and implementation arrangements. Procurement began
soon after loan effectiveness; the last of the detailed design work was completed in December 1985, the
first contract was awarded in June 1986 and the first loan withdrawals were made in March 1987.
1.24       Procurement  Most detailed designs and contract documents were prepared by the
consultants. The others, under the general supervision of the consultants, were prepared by PWD's
Technical Office for Cities Development (TOCD) and the National Housing Authority (NHA), which
prepared the slum improvement projects.
1.25       Prior to preparing contract documents, the consultants made a valuable study which
compiled and compared the many varied contract conditions used by MOF and other Thai government
agencies with respect to procurement and construction contracts. A number of modifications were
recommended and, after settlement of issues such as described below (para. 1.26), they were generally
adopted as amendments to MOF regulations and distributed to other government agencies, thus bringing
the general conditions of contract in line with generally accepted international standards.
1.26       There were only two large civil works contracts requiring international competitive bidding
(ICB), one for a bridge in Chiang Mai and the other for the fishport development in Songkhla. Bidding
for these was delayed about 7 months by an issue raised by the Public Prosecution Department (PPD)
over inclusion of the internationally accepted standard "Force Majeure" and "Excepted Risks" clauses in
the General Conditions of Contract as required by the Bank. This was resolved finally in March 1987.
1.27       A persistent procurement problem on local competitive bidding (LCB) contracts throughout
the implementation period was the length of time required to obtain the required Budget Bureau (BB)
approvals of individual contract budgets. A year after loan effectiveness the BB agreed to provide



--5--
approved budgets prior to or during bidding, but this improvement was very slow in being
implemented. In addition, in some instances the approved budgets were below the low evaluated bid
prices. This led to negotiations between the employer and the contractor, and, in the event of failure,
necessitated rebidding, all of which caused considerable delays in awarding a number of contracts.
Some contracts were re-bid two or three times.
1.28       Award of contracts for supply of equipment also required re-bidding to permit bidding for
individual items rather than requiring potential suppliers to bid on all items in a contract.
1.29       Implementation  The project was completed in about June 1994, more than four years
behind schedule, and the loan closing date was extended three times to March 31, 1994 (part III-2a).
Implementation started slowly and progress thereafter was much slower than expected.  This is
attributed largely to time required for the several involved government agencies to resolve a wide range
of issues in technical, administrative and regulatory areas and to adjust to the new or larger
responsibilities and improved management, operational and financial procedures required to satisfy the
project objectives.
1.30       The physical components ultimately controlled the completion date.  There were
substantial delays in the award of contracts (paras. 1.27 and 1.28). A few delays resulted from design
changes. Procedures for making payments to contractors for the LCB contracts were extremely slow,
causing cash flow problems for some contractors and consequent work delays. Also, during 1987 and
1988, booming construction activity in Thailand's private sector resulted in general shortages of labor
and construction materials, particularly cement, which delayed some works by a year or more.
1.31       The final extensions of the construction period and loan closing date resulted from
additions to the project of the deferred Phase 2 works comprising 7 civil works contracts (para. 1.10)
for which the detailed designs and contract documents had already been prepared.
1.32       Land acquisition, which had been considered one of the main project risks, did, together
with some surveying problems, cause delays on a few contracts, but did not contribute significantly to
the overall delay.
1.33       The institutional components of the project were carried out satisfactorily over the
extended implementation period. The project cities took the measures recommended by the project
studies for enhancement of revenues and strengthening of project administration and supervision.
Action programs for operation and maintenance of infrastructure have been adopted by the project
cities. New finance systems were introduced, enabling better financial monitoring and budgeting, and
tax mapping, based on the results of the Bank supported Land Titling Project (Ln. 2440-TH), was
completed and tax rolls were made current in all the project cities.
1.34       Project Costs and Financing  The project cost estimates as shown in the appraisal report
are compared with actual costs in Part 111-5a. The final cost of the project was about Baht 1,118
million (about US$43.9 million equivalent) before interest and other charges on the loan during
construction. These costs are about 81 % of the appraisal estimates when expressed in Baht, but about
86% of the estimate when expressed in US$ because of the difference between the appraisal exchange
rate (US$ = Baht 27.0) and the weighted average exchange rate (US$ = Baht 25.47) that applied
during the loan disbursement period. Foreign exchange costs were about 36% of the total, slightly
more than the appraisal forecast (34%).
1.35       The project cost savings occurred despite the fact that additional works were carried out
(para. 1.10) and are due mainly to a significant decline in the rate of inflation and lower than expected
physical contingencies; bids for construction works were about 25% lower than the design estimates,



--6-
and the cost of land purchases was less than the earlier assessments. The savings can also be credited
to good project management.
1.36       Part III-5b compares the appraisal estimates and actual sources and amounts of the project
financing. The project cities contributed about 22% of the required funds, and the Government, about
14%. The Bank loan financed about 45% of the project costs, compared to the 54% expected when the
loan was made. ADAB, UNDP and the United Centre for Human Settlements (UNCHS) provided
grants totaling about US$8.3 million equivalent (about 19% of costs) for technical assistance (paras. 1.6
and 1.17).
1.37       Loan Allocations and Disbursements The final allocation of the loan proceeds is shown in
Part lI1-3b. The original percent of expenditures on civil works contracts to be financed from the loan
was 75%. To accommodate the Government's request to use different percentages for the individual
cities, ranging from 62% to 76%, the Bank, in May 1987, agreed to raise the allowable percentage to
80%. Other changes made at the Government's request over the disbursement period were elimination
of the special account, various reallocations, and two cancellations totaling about US$7.2 million made
possible by project cost savings and receipt of UNDP grant aid totaling about US$1.5 million for
technical assistance. An unused balance of about US$0.4 million was canceled when the loan was
closed on June 30, 1994.
1.38       The cumulative estimated and actual loan disbursements are shown in Part lII-3a. About
99% of the loan was disbursed for local currency expenditures. The disbursement period from the date
of the loan to closing was about 9 years, three years longer that the original forecast. Except for a few
large contracts, withdrawals from the loan were reimbursements to the government for payments made
to contractors and suppliers. Usually there was a lag period of two or three months in preparing the
withdrawal applications, which may have contributed to contractor payment delays (para. 1.30).
Proiect Results
1.39       Physical Results The physical results of the project, together with the appraisal estimates,
are shown in Part 111-4.  By virtue of proceeding with Phase 2 (paras. 1.10 and 1.31) road
improvements were increased by nearly 50% over the estimates and drainage and waste water conduits,
by nearly 25 %.
1.40       Financial Results A summary of estimated and actual pertinent financial data for the four
project cities for FY86 through FY95 is given in Part 111-6(b). The relevance of comparisons between
forecasts and actual results is limited because appraisal forecasts were through FY88 only, the actual
data is for FY86 through FY92 and the data for FY93 through FY95 are estimates taken from the
cities' five year plans.
1.41       To achieve the financial objectives of the project, it was intended that: (a) all properties
within the cities' boundaries would be recorded (tax maps); (b) records of house, building and land
ownership would be updated (tax rolls); (c) property valuations would be re-assessed; and more efficient
accounting and collection systems would be introduced. During the project, considerable progress was
made in all of these areas, supported by a series of training programs and the acquisition of computers.
1.42       The bases for local revenue generation (updated property records and valuations) and
collection efficiencies have been improved. About 28,000 households (23% of the total) were added to
the tax rolls during the project period, and 39,000 property assessments were revised.  Still, a
significant number of owners are escaping full liability and property record updating must be continued.



--7--
1.43       The trend in the financial performances of the four cities has been similar in most areas,
showing generally satisfactory improvements, although a rapid increase in operating expenses since
1986 has offset many of the benefits attained through improved local revenue generation.
1.44       Local revenues increased 343% between FY81 and FY93, and by 127% between FY86
and FY93, without any increases in property and land tax rates, and with a population growth rate of
only 6%. Operating expenses over those periods increased by 320% and 213% respectively, however,
with only about half financed from local revenues. Reliance on central government allocations has been
reduced only marginally. The growth of city. overheads is a major concern and means of controlling
them is being studied by MOI.
1.45       The Songkhla fishport and commercial/industrial zone were expected to produce revenues
beginning in FY90. Fishport revenues actually began in FY91, but the commercial/industrial zone was
delayed with no actual revenue production during the project implementation period. Calculations
based on revised agreements, fee schedules and financial projections provided by Songkhla Municipality
to LGDO for these enterprises indicate that they will produce satisfactory results (para. 1.48).
1.46       Economic Results The appraisal estimate of the economic rate of return (ERR) for the
project was 30% (Part III 6(a). The bases for this analysis were an elaborate socio-economic survey
conducted in each project city by the Department of Town and Country Planning and a special survey
of households and properties and to assess damage from flooding.
1.47       Similar surveys and data collection have not been undertaken for the project as completed
and a revised estimate of the economic rate of return has not been prepared. In view of the facts that
the facilities created or improved by the project are greater than planned, that costs were significantly
less than the estimates, that the institutional and financial components have been carried out
satisfactorily and that the circumstances which dictated the need for the project have not changed, it
appears reasonable to believe that the economic return from the project will at least equal the appraisal
estimates.
1.48       The estimated  internal financial rate of return  (IFRR) for the fishport and
commercial/industrial zone, not calculated for the appraisal, has been calculated for the Project
Completion Report, however, using appraisal data for the Appraisal Estimate and 1993 data for the
Revised Estimate, taking into account the actual costs of the works and land and the latest projections
for revenues. This shows that the estimated IFRR for the fishport at appraisal would have been about
7.6%, while the revised estimate on completion is about 9.0%. This is considered adequate in view of
the additional economic value of land reclaimed for the fishport, cost savings through improved
efficiency of operations and the value of land released for development.
1.49       Institutional Results The project made important contributions to institutional development
in the four project cities as well as to MOI and its two key departments, DOLA and PWD. Prior to the
project, support for the municipalities had been piecemeal and assistance was arranged on an ad-hoc
basis through numerous departments of MOI and other ministries. Development of municipal staff was
fragmented and limited, responsibility for operations was unclear and the organizations lacked the
capacity to conduct municipal affairs at an acceptable level.
1.50       The project was the first large scale attempt to develop regional cities in Thailand and
acted as an example for introduction of increased cooperation and sharing of responsibilities between
central government agencies and the cities. Benefits achieved during the project included: staff training
and developmeut; a productive experience by the cities with active participation in project planning,'
management and construction supervision; and improved city finances and financial management. The
introduction of new budgeting and accounting procedures enabled the cities to prepare their first



--8--
medium and long term plans. And although the structure of municipal finance has changed very little,
and local financial autonomy has not been achieved, a decline in the proportion of local expenditures
financed from local sources has been checked.
1.51       Although programs for operation and maintenance of solid waste, drainage and waste
water systems and other municipal infrastructure have been installed in the project cities (para. 1.33),
local personnel lack experience and additional training and instruction manuals are required (para,
2.16).
1.52       OUD, established originally to administer the preparation of this project, and recently
renamed the Local Government Development Office (LGDO), and the Technical Office of City
Development (TOCD) in PWD, have made very good progress in strengthening government capacity to
support and coordinate municipal development activities. To overcome resistance to new policies and
methods, LGDO held regular meetings with local officials and residents to encourage participation and
emphasize improved efficiency in services and reduction of bureaucratic delays.
Project Sustainabilitv
1.53       Achievement and enhancement of the project's potential benefits requires continued efforts
to complete implementation of the operating and maintenance programs that were prepared for each
project city, particularly by adequate budget allocations and provision and training of staff. At the same
time, the recent trend toward rapid increases in overall operating costs should be controlled by careful
planning.
1.54       The Government also should continue introduction of legislative measures needed to
enhance the cities' revenue generation capabilities, and the cities should take full advantage of these by
levying fees required to support essential services and taking steps to stem the increasing operating cost
trend (para. 1.42 and 1.43).
Bank Performance
1.55       The Bank made a very large contribution of its staff resources to this project, especially
during the preparation and appraisal stages, during which periods their were 15 missions (Part III-8a
and 8b). Much of this input could be classified as technical assistance. In addition, staff of the Bank's
Resident Mission provided considerable aid as a channel of communication between headquarters and
government officials and a source of information about local problems and concems.
1.56       There were a number of times during the exceptionally long gestation period when the
Bank clearly would have been justified in deciding against further participation, but a conviction as to
the importance of the project and concem that another source of suitable major financing would not
become available encouraged the Bank to continue its involvement. It appeared certain as well that the
UNDP and bilateral grant aid for technical assistance on which the Government depended would not
have been forthcoming without assurances of continued active participation by the Bank. According to
a statement by UNDP during the project preparation stage, for example, the Bank's close involvement
encouraged UNDP to commit to the project, and the project was an excellent example of UNDP/Bank
collaboration.
1.57       There were no significant issues between the Bank and the project authorities.  The
records show that the Bank was supportive of Government requests for project revisions, reallocations
and cancellations of parts of the loan proceeds and extensions of the closing date. Supervision missions
were timely, considering Bank staff constraints.



-9-
Borrower/Implementin, Agencv Performance
1.58       Except for very slow progress, performance of the project agencies at all government
levels and of the project cities was generally good. Institutional and procedural changes were carefully
introduced and phased, and most objectives were satisfied. Performance of OUD in managing the
project was very good. The format and content of records and reports on physical progress and costs,
established at the beginning of the project in collaboration with the consultants and the Bank, proved to
be very successful.
1.59       The furnishing to the Bank of the accounts and audit reports for the project cities was
extremely slow (Part 111-7). Much of the problem was in translation of the accounts and reports from
the Thai language to English. Late in the project, it was agreed that translation was not necessary
provided that the accounts and reports were furnished to the Bank with a covering statement from OUD
describing the results of the audits and the actions being taken with regard to any qualifications. This
resulted in an improving trend in the submittal of audit reports.
1.60       Construction supervision of a number of smaller contracts by city staff was deficient in the
early stages because of staff constraints and because staff were accustomed to working to much lower
standards. With the guidance of the consultants, however, this improved as city staff paid more
attention to compliance with the specifications and quality control.
1.61       The efficiency of procurement and the processing of payments to contractors was
hampered seriously throughout the project by cumbersome bureaucratic systems of checks and balances
(paras. 1.30, 1.38 and 2.14). Payments for contracts supervised by the project cities, for example,
required approvals from the municipal engineers, the municipal councils, provincial authorities and
three or four levels of central government.
Performance of Consultants
1.62       Performance of all local and foreign consultants involved in the preparation and
implementation was good. The one case where government agencies were not satisfied with the
preliminary stage of a consultant's study of municipal management and finance (para. 1.15) appeared to
result from differing interpretations of the terms of reference and study objectives. The work of the
replacement joint venture was good.
Performance of Contractors and SuRpliers
1.63       The standard of performance of contractors on the larger contracts was generally good.
For the remaining contracts, the standard of contractors ranged from poor to good, according to the
supervising consultants.
1.64       Performance on the equipment supply contracts was good: deliveries were on schedule and
all equipment supplied conformed to specifications.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
1.65       This was a good project, successfully implemented. All planned measures to strengthen
institutions and improve financial performance were taken with reasonably success, and the physical
works completed generally exceeded the project targets.
1.66       The project was complex, and the first of its type in Thailand. It involved: a variety of
construction activities with a high degree of local participation in the successful introduction of



--10--
improved project planning, management and supervision procedures; and the implementation of difficult
reforms in municipal tax bases, revenue collection and management of municipal finances and
infrastructure.
1.67       Two apparent area for criticism are over-estimation of costs and underestimation, by about
one-third, of the construction period. The cost estimates, however, anticipated continuation of a period
of inflation which, in fact, was brought under control at about the time procurement began. And about
half of the time overrun was caused by the reintroduction, late in the construction period, of works
previously deferred because of perceived financial constraints.
1.68       The principal lessons emerging from the project experience are:
a)   in-depth participation in project preparation and implementation by all levels of officials
and staff contributes to the cooperation of communities intended to benefit from the
project (paras. 1.50 and 2.22);
b)   the experiences of central government and local agencies directly responsible for
procurement and construction can result in identification of problems and valuable
suggestions which should be considered seriously for improvement of future projects
(paras. 2.14-2.19);
c)   at the beginning of project implementation, agreement between Bank staff, the project
authorities and consultants on the organization and content of records and reports of
physical progress and cost data produces timely and useful monitoring information (para.
1.58 and Part III-7);
d)   the potential for the success of a project is increased if it can draw on the products of
other projects, in this case the Bank- supported National Sites and Services Project and the
Land Titling Project (paras. 1.6 and 1.33; and Part III-1); and
e)   for projects where audit reports for a number of local entities are required to be furnished
to the Bank, preparation of the reports in the national language should be adequate,
provided that an appropriate central agency reviews the audit reports and submits them to
the Bank with a statement in English confirming that the accounts have been reviewed and
describing steps being taken to implement any recommended improvements (para. 1.59).



-11-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2520-TH)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
2.1        The concept of regional cities' development was first officially recognized in Thailand
during the Fourth National Economic and Social Development Plan (NESDP) 1977-1981. The Royal
Thai Government (RTG) considered that large scale migration to Bangkok could only be reduced by
adopting a national policy of balancing the urbanization between the poorer regions and Bangkok. This
policy was later translated into the strategy to increase the attraction of the medium sized regional cities
to potential migrants from the adjacent rural areas.  The strategy was coordinated by the National
Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) and implemented through the Ministry of the
Interior (MOI), in particular through the Office of Urban Development (OUD) and the Technical Office
for Cities Development (TOCD).  These agencies administered the Regional Cities Development
Project (RCDP).
Objective
2.2        The objectives of the Project were to improve the basic infrastructure in the Project cities
to strengthen i) municipal administration (particularly finance); ii) planning and implementation; iii)
operation and maintenance of urban services; and iv) the capacity of MOI to assist municipalities in
carrying out their development programs.
2.3        The Project cities included Chiang Mai in the Northern Region, Khon Kaen and Nakhon
Ratchasima in the Northeast and Songkhla/Hat Yai in the South. Selection of the cities took into
consideration inter-regional disparities, administrative capabilities and location. The population in 1980
was as follows:
-    Chiang Mai       164,000
-    Khon Kaen        110,000
-    Nakhon Ratchasima      177,000
-    Songkhla          85,000
-    Hat Yai          117,000
2.4        These cities are the largest in Thailand after Bangkok, which had a population of 5.5
million in 1980.
Preparation
2.5        Pre-feasibility studies financed by UNDP in 1981 identified major investment which would
overcome infrastructure deficiencies in the five cities.  A regional cities' development strategy
incorporating the project was included in the RTG's Fifth Development Plan (1982-1986) and placed
emphasis on achieving greater economic efficiency and equitable distribution of services and wealth.
2.6        During  1982, UNDP-financed feasibility studies were undertaken together with
complementary studies of municipal administration and finance improvement and reform. The findings
of the studies in respect of four cities (finance for Hat Yai was not included) were finally approved by
the RTG in January 1985.



-12-
2.7        Detailed  engineering  and  project management advisory  services  for physical
implementation of the Project were financed by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB)
through its Bank co-financing facility, and were undertaken from 1983-1986 and 1986-1988,
respectively.
2.8        The emphasis of the Sixth Development Plan (1987-1991) as applied to the urban sector
included, in addition to developing regional cities as counter-magnets to Bangkok, a program of
encouraging growth of cities in areas which had a real competitive advantage. The Department of
Local Administration (DOLA), which is responsible for the major cities outside Bangkok, responded by
preparing a program of infrastructure upgrading in these cities. These efforts were focused by OUD
which administered the RCDP. The key to the Project was the strengthening of municipalities to
perform the planning and supervision of tasks required for project implementation.
2.9        Full project implementation supported RTG's regional development strategy by providing
an improved infrastructure base and strengthening municipal administration to support growing
economic opportunities in the four Project cities. The Project also improved environmental conditions
affecting some 540,000 people in the four cities' municipal areas.
Cost
2.10       The Project cost Baht 1,118 million ($43.9) which was financed by a World Bank loan of
$19.9 million (45%), Budget Bureau funds of $6.0 million (14%), municipalities' funds of $9.7 million
(22%), and ADAB and UNDP grants totaling $8.3 million (19%).  The Project had three major
components:
-    an infrastructure component comprising sub-projects (including equipment procurement).
Sub-projects including roads, drains, wastewater, solid waste and slum upgrading (mainly
footpaths, roads and drains);
-    a revenue generating component comprising the Songkhla fishport and industrial estate;
and
-    an institutional component designed to strengthen OUD, TOCD and the municipalities of
the four cities. The major focus of this component was on finance systems, operation and
maintenance systems, project supervision (number and quality of staff) and training.
Proiect ScoDe
2.11       RCDP incorporated infrastructure sub-projects within each of the subject cities selected
from the following sections:
-    traffic, roads and bridges.
-    drainage and flood control.
-    water supply.
-    solid waste collection and disposal.
-    wastewater management schemes.
-    municipal enterprises.
-    fishport.



finnt'tuil nnn,nnnnnr hnes, n kon nr.rn,A nn+
-13-
Implementation
2.12       The project was the result of feasibility studies undertaken during the period 1981-1983 by
consultants and Government agencies, representing the first stage of implementation of the overall
RCDP, which was divided into four primary stages as follows:
-    Pre-feasibility study.
-    Feasibility study.
-    Engineering Design.
-    Construction.
Project Office and Organization
2.13       MOI was responsible for the overall execution of the Project, which was carried out under
the general guidance of the RCDP Steering Committee (SC), which was set up by a cabinet resolution
in 1979. The SC was chaired by the Under-secretary of the MOI. The Project Director (the Director
General of DOLA), directed the activities of the OUD. The Deputy Project Director (Technical) who
is the Deputy Director General of the Public Works Department (PWD) chaired the Technical Sub-
conmmittee (TSC) and directed the activities of the TOCD.  MOI also established the Project
Management Unit (PMU) which comprised staff from OUD and TOCD. The PMU provided the
necessary technical, management and administrative support to the four regional city municipalities.
The PMU was chaired by the Director of OUD, who was also the Project Manager for RCDP.
Problems and Obstacles
2.14       Pre-construction Problems
a)   The designs differed from the actual situation due to a lapse of one to two years between
the detailed design and construction which resulted in significant changes in the situation.
b)   There was a delay in approval of funds from the Budget Bureau.
c)   Contracts for many civil works were tendered more than once. Some bids had to be
reevaluated for the new price estimation, which caused delay in construction and
disbursement.
d)   During 1988-1989, skilled labor was scarce due to  Government and private sector
construction, causing DOLA to re-tender.
2.15  Problems during Construction
a)   The contractor did not have adequate experience in the municipal area of the project.
b)   There was a lack of co-ordination between the contractor and the public utility agencies in
the area.
c)   The contractor's construction plan was inadequate.
d)   The terms of payment in the contract were not appropriate and there was no fluidity of
disbursement by the contractor. Therefore, there was not enough revolving budget for
construction.



-14-
e)   The work construction supervisor was unable to make decisions regarding problems during
construction, which then had to be passed to the highest administrative officers which
delayed construction work, and caused the contract to be extended.
2.16       Post Construction Problems
a)   The contractor did not have experience in preparing as-made drawings.
b)   Municipal officials did not have adequate knowledge of maintenance and did not prepare
the budget for this purpose.
Correction Guidelines
2.17       Preconstruction
a)   Meetings should be arranged between OUD, TOCD and the Municipality before inviting
bids.
b)   Arranging meetings between the officials of OUD, TOCD, and the Budget Bureau would
hasten approval of the budget.
c)   Meetings between OUD and TOCD could agree on the necessity of adjusting the
government standard price to suit the existing situation.
2.18       During Construction
a)   Explanatory meetings should be carried out with the contractors to ensure that they
understand the problems in the municipal area.
b)   The municipality should issue letters to other concerned agencies to assist the contractors
in carrying out their work.
c)   OUD, TOCD and the contractors should meet to prepare plans for construction of the
project.
d)   OUD and the contractors should agree that when 85 % of construction is completed, OUD
should be informed to prepare the budget for payment in order that the contractors can
disburse the payment more rapidly when the construction is finally completed.
e)   Meetings between the Inspection Committee and the contractors should be held once per
week before construction, so that problems can be identified quickly and a shop-drawing
prepared and submitted to the contract awarder for approval.
f)   Increase the Budget Bureau's cost estimates for the project.
2.19       Post Construction
a)    Field officers should be assigned to oversee the contractor's design plan and site
organization for actual construction.
b)   OUD, TOCD and the Municipality should hold technical meetings with officials at
technical and decision making levels.



-15-
Relations with the World Bank
2.20       There is a good relationship between the implementing agencies of the RTG and the World
Bank but some improvement could be made, i.e. the latter should allow for a special method in the
contract when bidding is invited many times in order to save time.
Creation of OUD and Cities' Project Teams
2.21       The cabinet assigned MOI to implement the project, whereby DOLA and PWD set up
internal offices (i.e. OUD and TOCD) and the World Bank provided assistance for office equipment
and training of personnel abroad. This resulted in strengthening the capacity of officials to prepare
projects, including budgeting and monitoring, and the evaluation of the first round of the Regional City
Development Project.
Institutional Building in the Cities
2.22       The RCDP was implemented according to the National Development Plan. The project
created the interest of municipalities for development in the areas of basic infrastructure, town maps,
project administration and budget administration.
Future Proiect Preparation
2.23       DOLA has planned RCDP II (Baht 4,152.05 million) comprising 61 components, and will
in the first phase undertake the implementation and engineering design of 37 components in the project
cities which .include Pitsanulok, Nakhon Sawan, Udol Thani, Chon Buri, Ratcha Buri, Surat Thani,
Phuket and Hat Yai.
2.24       DOLA plans to implement RCDP III in the fiscal year 1995 in 13 provinces (14
municipalities), including Chiangrai, Ukun Rachatham (Warim Chamrab), Roi-et, Surin, Rayong,
Chachoengsao, Kanchanaburi, Petchaburi, Pattani, Sakonnakorn, Saraburu, and Nakhon Sri Thamarrat,
and wishes to receive assistance from the World Bank in preparing pre-feasibility studies, feasibility
studies and detailed designs. DOLA hopes that the World Bank will be able to consider this request.



-16-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2520-TH)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Title                Purpose               Approved     Status         Comment
National Sites and   Low  cost  housing  and   06/80        Complete.  Included  funds  for
Services Project    technical  assistance  for              Loan closed  feasibility  studies for
(Ln. 1870-TH)   Ministry of Interior (MOI).              12/31/85. Regional  Cities
PCR   No.  Development Project in
6816        event grant funds did
not become available.
Also included municipal
f inance  and
administration study
and advisory assistance
on reform of property
evaluation   and
establishment  of  a
National  Evaluation
Authority.
Land   Titling    First phase of National 20-   10/11/84    Complete.  Included   an  urban
Project     (Ln.   year  land  titling  and                 Loan closed  mapping program  for
2440-TH)           cadastral mapping program.               03 /3 1 / 92. use as basis, inter alia,
PCR   No.  for preparation of tax
11896.      maps.



-17-
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raised
a) Proiect Timetable
Activity/                  Date            Revised              Actual
Event                   Planned           Date                  Date
First mention in files                                                  06/78
Project Identification          ---                                     07/79
Preappraisal Mission            ---               ---                  08/09-31/82
Appraisal Mission              06/82              11/82
12/82
05/83               05/02-23/83
Negotiations                   01/83              08/83
01/84
05/84
07/84               02/04-08/85
Board Approval                 03/83              10/83
03/84
04/84
07/84
10/84                04/23/85
Loan Signature                                                          06/10/85
Loan Effectiveness            09/10/85           11/12/85
01/13/86
02/13/86               01/17/86
Completion Date               03/31/90           12/31/91
12/31/92
09/30/93               06/30/94
Closing Date                  03/31/91           03/31/92
03/31/93               03/31/94
Final Disbursement            06/30/91           06/30/92
06/30/93               06/30/94



-18-
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raised
b) Issues Raised (PreaDDraisal through Board Presentation)
IdentificationlPreappraisal Stage: (06/78 - 04/83)
Reluctance of RTG to borrow for technical assistance required for project preparation: While RTG
struggled with this problem, the Bank included components for technical assistance for this project
in the National Sites and Services Project (Loan 1870-TH, FY80) with the understanding that these
funds would be reallocated if grant funds were obtained. Eventually, with Bank assistance, grant
aid for feasibility studies and preliminary design was obtained from UNDP.
Whether the Bank or the Ministry of the Interior would be the executing agencv for Phase 2 of the
UNDP financed feasibility studies: This was strictly a government internal issue. There had been
no issue about the Bank as executing agency for Phase 1, and MOI requested that the Bank take the
same role again so as to expedite recruitment of consultants and reduce its responsibilities at a time
when MOI was experiencing substantial internal problems. NESDB disagreed, however, insisting
that MOI accept the responsibility even if it lead to delays, and with the concurrence of the Bank,
MOI assumed responsibility for the second phase as a means of building capability for managing
projects. No doubt the experience gained was valuable, but the decision did contribute to a delay of
about 9 months in the selection of consultants, due in part to continued disarray within MOI and the
time to establish a steering committee and obtain Cabinet approvals. During the process it was
agreed that UNDP and MOI would be joint executers of the studies.
Appraisal Stage: (05/83 - 06/83)
Reluctance of RTG to borrow for technical assistance reguired for detailed design: Although RTG
resisted, the Bank required that funds for consulting services for detailed design and project
management be included in the loan because of uncertainties about the possibilities of RTG
obtaining adequate grant funds for this purpose. Eventually, most of the required funds were
obtained from the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB), and during the Bank loan
disbursement period the amount allocated for these consulting services was reduced by cancellation
or reallocation to other categories.



-19-
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raised
b) Issues Raised (Preappraisal throueh Board Presentation)
Post-Appraisal: (07/83 - 01/85)
Timiin, of the Government's formal commitment to a loan: As project preparation reached the
stage where the timing of loan processing appeared reasonably predictable, the Bank target was for
a loan commitment in the Bank's FY84.  The Government, however, as part of its debt
management strategy regarding use of foreign borrowings and sensitivity about public criticism of
excessive commitment fees, wanted to postpone a loan commitment to as close as possible to the
time of the first disbursements, and thus aimed for loan signing during its FY85 (beginning October
1, 1984). Due in part to these concerns, negotiations were delayed until February 1985. The loan
was approved by the Bank in April 1985 and signed in June 1985, but did not became effective
until January 1986. The first disbursements were made in March 1987.
Management Review: (07/83)
No significant issues were raised during management review.
Negotiations: (02/85)
Lending terms: The lending terms at the time of the invitation to negotiate (November 1993) were
20 years including a 6 year period of grace, whereas at negotiations the Bank was proposing 17
years including a four year grace period which was consistent with the country terms applicable to
Thailand as recently revised by the Bank. At the request of the RTG delegation, the Bank agreed to
a loan of 20 years including a 5 year grace period mainly on grounds that Thailand was at the
bottom of the middle income group of Bank borrowers and that the projected disbursement period
was 6 years.
Subsidiary Loan Agreement: The draft loan agreement included the standard provisions for a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The RTG delegation opposed this, arguing that with Cabinet approval
of the project, including arrangements for financing the project cities' respective shares of the
project costs, the subsidiary agreement was not necessary. The Bank agreed with the request to
delete the requirement, but the concept of the subsidiary agreement was retained in the agreements
to be reached between MOF and MOI and between MOI and each project city, all subject to
approval by the Bank as an additional condition of loan effectiveness.
Board Presentation: (04/23/85)
No significant issues were raised at the time the loan was considered by the Board.



-20-
3. Loan Disbursements
a) Cumulative and Actual Disbursements
(US $ '000)
IBRD FY                     Appraisal                         Actual
and Semester                 Estimate                                  % of Appraisal
Ending                    Amount                  Amount                Estimate
1986
12/31/85                  1.50
06/30/86                  2.00
1987
12/31/86                  6.00
06/30/87                 10.10                  0.50                  5%
1988
12/31/87                 15.40                  1.62                 11%
06/30/88                 20.70                  4.31                 21%
1989
12/31/88                 23.50                 7.37                  31%
06/60/89                 26.20                  8.24                 31%
1990
12/31/89                 27.50                 10.21                 37%
06/30/90                 27.50                 12.11                 44%
1991
12/31/90                 27.50                 13.54                 49%
06/30/91                 27.50                 14.72                 54%
1992
12/31/91                 27.50                 15.20                 55%
06/30/92                 27.50                 16.13                 59%
1993
12/31/92                 27.50                 17.24                 63%
06/30/93                 27.50                 17.49                 64%
1994
12/31/93                 27.50                 18.12                 66%
06/30/94                 27.50                 19.89                 72%
Cancellations:
on 03/23/87                  $4,500,000
on 02/29/88                   2,668,000
on 06/30/94                     442,253
Total Canceled:              $7,610,253
Net amount of loan:         $19,889,747
Closing Date:    Original:                03/31/91
Revised:                     03/31/92
Revised:                     03/31/93
Final:                       03/31/94
Loan Account closed:                 06/30/94



-21-
3. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS (Continued)
b) Original and Final Allocation of Proceeds
(US$ equivalent)
1'
Loan Agreement
Amount of            % of              Actual
Loan          Expenditures            Amount
Category                       Allocated        To Be Financed       Disbursed
(1) Civil works
(a) for Parts A                   16,500,000           75                15,078,573
and C of the                   (amended to 80%)
Project
(b) for Part B of                5,000,000            75                  3,777,209
the Project                    (amended to 80%)
(2) Equipment and                 500,000              100% of foreign      837,010
vehicles                                            expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 65 % of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3) Consultants'                  1,000,000            100                  196,954
Services
2/
(4) Special Account               1,500,000            Amounts to be deposited    0
pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated                   3,000,000                                       0
TOTAL                       27,500,000                              19,889,747
1/   Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement.
2/   Borrower chose not to use the Special Account.



-22-
4. Pro*ect Implementation
Monitorinz Indicators - Physical Parameters
1/                                                        2'
Schedule                          Actual                  % of ADpraisal Estimate
Main Drainage and Flood Protection
Length of diversion channel
Chiang Mai                    1.2 km                                  5.3 km                          440%
Khon Kaen                    3.5 km                                  10.7 km                          300%
Korat                        6.2 km                                   7.6 km                          120%
SongkhIa                     1.1 km                                   0.9 km                           80%
Sewerage
Interceptors/Waste Treatment Plants
Interceptors      WTPs         Interceptors            WTPs
Khon Kaen                     7.0 km            1           4.4 km                1                    63%       100%
Korat                         0.6 km            1           3.0 km                1                   500%       100%
Sotid Waste Manaaement
Sanitary Landfills and Collection Vehicles
Landfills    Vehicles           Landfills            Vehicles
Khon Kaen                       1            13               1                   13                  100%       100%
Korat                           1            13               1                   13                  100%       100%
SongkhLa                        1            3                1                   3                   100%       100%
Roads and Roadside Drainage Improvement
Length of Improvements:          Roads            Drains            Roads            Drains
Chiang Mai                 2.5 km             6.4 km        7.1 km            13.3 km                 280%       208%
Khon Kaen                  5.2 km            4.6 km         4.3 km             3.2 km                  83%        70%
Korat                      3.0 km            15.6 km        3.0 km            10.0 km                 100%        64%
Songkhla                   5.6 km             5.1 km        9.5 km             5.0 km                 170%        98%
Fishport and Commerciat-IndustriaL Zone
Fishport with Associated Facilities and Commercial Zone
Songkhla                   1 port             1 zone        1 port             1 zone                 100%       100%
Slum Upgrading
Areas       Households          Areas             Households
Chiang Mai                  11.8 ha         526            11.8 ha              n.a.                  100% -X
Korat                        5.6 ha         618             5.6 ha              n.a.                  100%
SongkhLa                     6.6 ha         600             6.6 ha              n.a.                  100%
I/ From Staff Appraisal Report Annexes 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6
2/ From contract documents. Since all cities have combined drains (surface water plus waste water) it is not possible to clearly
distinguish between the main drainage, road drainage and sewerage conduits. Altogether, about 63 km were actually constructed,
compared to the appraisal estimate of about 51 km, an increase of about 25%.
n.a. = data not available



-23-
4. Project Implementation (Continued)
Monitoring Indicators (Continued)
(1987 - 1993)
Computers Supplied:                                 Number
Chiang Mai                                            18
Khon Kaen                                              2
Korat                                                 11
Songkhla                                               3
Total    34
Computer Operators Trained:                         Number
Chiang Mai                                             4
Khon Kaen                                             0
Korat                                                 10
Songkhla                                               1
Total    15
Households Added to Tax Maps:                       Number
Chiang Mai                                         9,938
Khon Kaen                                          4,658
Korat                                             10,933
Songkhla                                           2.256
Total 27,785
Households Reassessed
for Propertv Tax   :                                Number
Chiang Mai                                        25,310
Khon Kaen                                          4,875
Korat                                              7,722
Songkhla                                             784
Total 38,691
Increased Revenue Due to
Tax Roll and Assessment                              Baht
Improvements:                                      (millions)
Chiang Mai                                        280.61
Khon Kaen                                          83.06
Korat                                             106.41
Songkhla                                           78.54
Total 545.62



-24-
5. Project Costs and Financing
a) Proiect Costs
(Baht millions)
Appraisal Estimate                   Actual Costs
Project Component          Local  Foreign         Total          Local  Foreign  Total
Land                         183.79     0.0         183.79        144.30     0.0      144.30
Drainage and sanitation      157.12   104.75       261.87         179.24   129.45    308.69
Urban transport              268.56   151.06       419.62         152.29    85.65    237.94
Revenue earning facilities   149.60    70.40       220.00          91.16    42.90    134.06
Slum improvement              26.23    15.41        41.64          22.75    13.36      36.10
Technical assistance          79.83   124.86       204.69          88.13   130.92    219.05
Project administration        43.94     0.0         43.94          37.95     0.0       37.95
Total Project Cost           909.07   466.48      1,375.55        715.82   402.28  1,118.10
Percent of total              66%      34%          100%           64%      36%        100%
Proiect Costs
(US$ '000)
ADpraisal Estimate 1/                 Actual Costs 2/
Project Component          Local  Foreign         Total          Local  Foreign  Total
Land                           6,807       0        6,807          5,665         0  5,665
Drainage and sanitation        5,790   3,909         9,699         7,037    5,082 12,119
Urban transport               10,020   5,521        15,541         5,979    3,363  9,342
Revenue earning facilities     5,544   2,604         8,148         3,579    1,684  5,263
Slum improvement                 972     570         1,542           893      524  1,417
Technical assistance 3/        2,937   4,644         7,581         3,467    5,140  8,607
Project administration         1,628       0         1.628         1 490       _    1,490
Total Project Cost            33,698  17,248        50,946        28,110   15,793 43,903
Percent of total                66%     34%          100%           64%       36%   100%
1/  Exchange rate at appraisal: US$ = Bhat 27.0
2/  Weighted average exchange rate for loan withdrawals in local currency during the loan disbursement period: US$ = Bhat
25.47
3/  Actual costs include (i) AIDAB and UNDP (TH/86/001) contributions for studies, design, training and supervision of
construction of RCDP I (US$6.0 million and US$1.5 million, respectively); (ii) AIDAB contribution for studies of RCDP nI
(US$0.79 million); and (iii) Government contribution to supervision of construction of RCDP I (US$0.3 million).



-25-
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
b) Project Financinf
(Baht millions)
Appraisal                            Actual
Amount      %                        Amount   %
Total Project Cost     1,375.55      100.0                   1,118.10   100.0
Project Financing
Bank Loan              742.00       54.0                      506.60   45.3
Australian Grants       135.00       9.8                      172.94    15.5
Govermment Contribution 150.10      10.9                      152.78    13.6
Cities Contribution    348.45       25.3                      247.58    22.1
UNDP/UNSCH Grants   0               0                          38.20    3.5
Total Financing       1,375.55     100.0                    1,118.10   100.0
Project Financinf
(US$ millions)
Appraisal I/                          Actual 2/
Amount      %                        Amount   %
Total Project Cost        50.9       100.0                      43.90   100.0
Project Financing
Bank Loan                27.5       54.0                       19.89   45.3
Australian Grants         5.0        9.8                        6.79    15.5
Govermnent Contribution   5.6       10.9                        6.00    13.6
Cities Contribution      12.69      25.3                        9.72    22.1
UNDP/UNSCH Grants         0.0        0 .0                       1.50     3.5
Total Financing          50.9      100.0                       43.90   100.0
1/  Exchange rate at appraisal: US$ = Bhat 27.0
2/  Weighted average exchange rate for loan withdrawals in local currency during the loan disbursement period: US$ = Bhat
25.47



-26-
6. Proiect Benefits
a) Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate         Actual
Economic Rate of Return
Drainage and flood control                           25%
Solid waste disposal                                 14%
Roads                                                45%
Bridges                                              33%
Songkhla fishport and
commercial/indust. area                             18%
Slum improvement                                     13%
Weighted average                                     30%
Incremental Financial Rate of Return:
Songkhla Fishport and                                   I                     a/
Clommercial/Indust. area                             7.6%                 9.0%
a/ IFRR calculated for the Project Completion Report using appraisal data and the data and forecasts available in 1994.
Underlving Assumptions:
For Appraisal Estimate: The basis for this analysis was an elaborate socio-economic survey conducted in
each project city by the Department of Town and Country Planning which collected substantial amounts of
data as a means of evaluating numbers of beneficiaries, the value of individual benefits and estimated
growth factors. The survey collected information on numbers of households by income groups for different
areas. There also was a special survey of households, commercial properties and city maintenance officials
to assess damage, both out-of-pocket and labor, to repair flood damage. Standard measures of benefits
were used in the economic analysis. The foreign exchange component was shadow priced at 100%, while
the market rates were considered to reflect market conditions for the local component.
Benefits derived from the fishport and commercial/industrial zone included: the economic value of
about 16 ha of reclaimed land for commercial development, excluding the port area itself; cost savings in
fish landing and handling; and the economic value of land released for development of potentially valuable
areas previously constrained by noisome fish land operations.
For the Proiect Completion Report: Surveys were not updated for the purposes of the Project Completion
report and a revised estimate of the economic rate of return has not been prepared. The estimated internal
financial rate of return (IFRR) for the fishport and conmmercial/industrial zone, not calculated for the
appraisal, has been calculated for the Project Completion Report, however, using appraisal data for the
Appraisal Estimate and 1993 data for the Revised Estimate, taking into account the actual costs of the works
and land and the latest projections for revenues (Annex 3).



-27-
b) Financial Impact
Key Indicators - CHIANG MAI
Financial Results - (Thousand Baht)
1986      1987      1988      1989       1990
Local Revenues:             Estimate      46345     53433      60970
Local Revenues:             Actual        48395     56323      51129     59574     78599
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Estimate      56376     64536     74019                *1
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Actual        58309     61325     71063      86781    105143
Grants:                     Estimate      20058     20941      21979
Grants:                     Actual        24142     24664      25226     31273     40408
Total Resources:            Estimate     267873    211710    217852
Total Resources:            Actual       177886    170499    192537    210786    246748
Operating Expenses:         Estimate     103127    119376    132999
Operating Expenses:         Actual        77035     80286      87406     92192    109676
Capital Expenditure:        Estimate     159064     82195      71803
Capital Expenditure:        Actual        63819     77079      72841     98764     80003
Net Surplus:                Estimate       3082      3539       4050
Net Surplus:                Actual        37032     13134      32290     19830     57069
1991      1992      1993      1994       1995
Local Revenues:             Estimate       */                  *1       128929    146997
LocalRevenues:               Actual      102167    113609    131261    ***/
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Estimate      */              *1            224951    263544
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Actual       138740    169930    197669    ***/
Grants:                     Estimate            */                      124798    129646
Grants:                     Actual        32495     52154      88516    ***/
Total Resources:            Estimate       *1        *1                 478678    540187
Total Resources:            Actual       296646    396679    427946    ***/
Operating Expenses:         Estimate                 */        */       180999    196424
Operating Expenses:         Actual       121761    127152    194120    ***/
Capital Expenditure:        Estimate                 *1                 288105    332960
Capital Expenditure:        Actual       146065    266596    179550    ***/
Net Surplus:                Estimate            */                        9574     10803
Net Surplus:                Actual        28820      2931      54276    **/
*/ Estimates in SAR made only to FY1988 (SAR Annex 11)
*  Estimates for FY1994 and FY1995 taken from city's 5 year plan prepared in 1992
***/ Actual results to FY1993.



-28-
b) Financial Impact
Key Indicators - CHIANG MAI
Financial Results - Percentages
1986       1987       1988       1989        1990
Local Revenues as % of         Estimate
Operating Expenses:            Actual            45%        45%        46%         -
63%        70%        58%        65%        72%
Local & Surcharge/Shared Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimnate        100%        99%       101%         -
Actual          139%       147%       140%        159%       168%
Local Revenues as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate          17%        25%        28%         -
Actual           27%        33%        27%         28%        32%
Surcharge & Shared Taxes as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate          21%        30%        34%         -
Actual           33%        36%        37%        41%         43%
Grants as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           7%        10%        10%         -           -
Actual           14%        14%        13%         15%        16%
1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
Local Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate           -          -          -         71%         75%
Actual           84%        89%        68%          -          -
Local & Surcharge/Shared Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate           -          -          -        196%       209%
Actual          198%       223%       169%          -
Local Revenues as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         27%         27%
Actual           34%        29%        31%          -          -
Surcharge & Shared Taxes as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         47%         49%
Actual           47%        43%        46%          -          -
Grants as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         26%         24%
Actual           11%        13%        21%          -



-29-
b) Financial Impact
Key Indicators - KHON KAEN
Financial Results - (Thousand Baht)
1986      1987      1988      1989       1990
Local Revenues:             Estimate      20762     23625      26501               *1
Local Revenues:             Actual        22263     25792      25961     26652     31627
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Estimate      21380     24155     27304                *l
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Actual        15610     16768      19621     25294     33231
Grants:                     Estimate      20218     23578     25226                *l
Grants:                     Actual        58716     57344     50353      44997     34642
Total Resources:            Estimnate    152554    140196    102041                *l
Total Resources:            Actual       108120    112491    114018    106433    109514
Operating Expenses:         Estimate      53948     61106     66178
Operating Expenses:         Actual        30186     37064      36543     43250     59903
Capital Expenditure:        Estimate      97342     77657      34249
Capital Expenditure:        Actual        73286     71725      74237     62861     45668
Net Surplus:                Estimate       1264       1433      1614               *l
Net Surplus:                Actual         4648      3702       3238       322      3943
1991      1992      1993      1994       1995
* *1
Local Revenues:             Estimate *c                        */        40198     42768
Local Revenues:             Actual        34713     35577      41501    ***/
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Estimate      */         *l                  97592    125046
Surcharge& SharedTaxes:     Actual        46000     59103     67113    ***/
Grants:                     Estimate                                     92714    111349
Grants:                     Actual        48357     65549    134182    ***/
Total Resources:            Estimate      */         *l                 230504    279163
Total Resources:            Actual       133686    175845    242796    ***/
Operating Expenses:         Estimate      */         *l        */       147385    174581
Operating Expenses:         Actual        83145    106190    127289    ***l
Capital Expenditure:        Estimate      */         *l                  48422     52028
Capital Expenditure:        Actual        45568     57301    109665    ***/
Net Surplus:                Estimate      */         *l                  34697     52554
Net Surplus:                Actual         4973      12354      6202    ***l
*/ Estimates in SAR made only to FY1988 (SAR Annex 11)
**/ Estimates for F Y1994 and F Y1995 taken from city's 5 year plan prepared in 1992
*** Actual results to FY1993.



-30-
b) Financial Impact
Key Indicators - KHON KAEN
Financial Results - Percentages
1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
Local Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate          38%        39%        40%         -
Actual           74%        70%        71%        62%         53%
Local & Surcharge/Shared Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate          78%        78%        81%         -
Actual          125%       115%       125%       120%        108%
Local Revenues as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate          14%        17%        26%         -
Actual           21%        23%        23%        25%         29%
Surcharge & Shared Taxes as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate          14%        17%        27%         -
Actual           14%        15%        17%        24%         30%
Grants as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate          13%        17%        25%         -           -
Actual           54%        51%        44%        42%         32%
1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
Local Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate           -          -          -         27%        24%
Actual           42%        34%        33%          -          -
Local & Surcharge/Shared Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate           -          -          -         93%        96%
Actual           97%        89%        85%          -          -
Local Revenues as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         17%         15%
Actual           26%        20%        17%
Surcharge & Shared Taxes as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         42%         45%
Actual           34%        34%        28%          -          -
Grants as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         40%         40%
Actual           36%        37%        55%          -          -



-31-
b) Financial Impact
Key Indicators - NAKHON RATCHASIMA
Financial Results - (Thousand Baht)
1986      1987      1988      1989       1990
Local Revenues:              Estimate     23698      26265     28860     *1
Local Revenues:              Actual       35593      35921     35127     35140     40035
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:    Estimate     33080      39518     47300     */         *1
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Actual        28275      29918     35802     47194     59928
Grants:                      Estimate     15855      17434     19431
Grants:                     Actual        66775      54903     62036     44733     33516
Total Resources:             Estimate    204131    172536    119728      */
TotalResources:              Actual      137070    131513    165021    133109    157226
Operating Expenses:          Estimate     61204      70939     84155     *1         *l
Operating Expenses:          Actual       41216      45154     65957     51773     79188
Capital Expenditure:         Estimate    141224      99624     33288     *1         *l
Capital Expenditure:         Actual       90179      77392    102671     56548      37294
Net Surplus:                 Estimate       1703      1973      2285     *l         *l
Net Surplus:                 Actual        5675       8967      1700     24788      33744
1991      1992      1993      1994       1995
Local Revenues:              Estimate                *l        */        74431      79455
Local Revenues:              Actual       56088      60451     66123    ***/
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:    Estimate     */         *l                 128667    141534
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:    Actual       83143    105018    116970    ***/
Grants:                      Estimate     */                             94511    103962
Grants:                      Actual       70901      80281     81485    ***/
Total Resources:             Estimate     */         *l                 297609    324951
Total Resources:             Actual      225979    275732    283811    ***/
OperatingExpenses:           Estimate     */         *1                 151501    164217
Operating Expenses:          Actual       92482    114109    132075    ***/
Capital Expenditure:         Estimate     */         *1                 143098    157408
Capital Expenditure:         Actual       96559    144891    130645    ***/
Net Surplus:                 Estimate                *l        */         3010       3326
Net Surplus:                 Actual       36938      16732     21091    ***/
*/ Estimates in SAR made only to FY 1988 (SAR Annex 11)
*/ Estimates for FY 1994 and FY 1995 taken from city's 5 year plan prepared in 1992
***/ Actual results to FY 1993.



-32-
b) Financial Impact
Key Indicators - NAKHON RATCHASIMA
Financial Results - Percentages
1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
Local Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate          390/o      37%        34%         -
Actual           86%        80%        53%        68%         51%
Local & Surcharge/Shared Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate         93%         93%        90%         -           -
Actual          155%       146%       108%        159%       126%
Local Revenues as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate          12%        15%        24%         -
Actual           26%        27%        21%         26%        25%
Surcharge & Shared Taxes as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate          16%        23%        40%         -
Actual           21%        23%        22%         35%        38%
Grants as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           8%        10%        16%         -           -
Actual           49%        42%        38%         34%        21%
1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
Local Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate           -          -          -         49%        48%
Actual           61%        53%        50%          -          -
Local & Surcharge/Shared Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate           -          -          -        134%        135%
Actual          151%       145%       139%
Local Revenues as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         25%         24%
Actual           25%        22%        23%          -          -
Surcharge & Shared Taxes as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         43%         44%
Actual           37%        38%        41%          -          -
Grants as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         32%         32%
Actual           31%        29%        29%          -          -



-33-
b) Financial Impact
Key Indicators - SONGKHLA
Financial Results - (Thousand Baht)
1986      1987      1988      1989       1990
Local Revenues:              Estimate     24175      28114     32303     */         */
Local Revenues:              Actual        18588     19404    20002      20756     22983
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Estimate      11892      13358     15013     */        */
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Actual        13822      14613     18994     20274     26276
Grants:                     Estimate      21166      23492     26268     */        */
Grants:                     Actual        18793     64202      58190     94128     61581
Total Resources:            Estimate     114147    176280    127434      */         */
Total Resources:            Actual        51283    120875    105997    150119    124516
Operating Expenses:         Estimate      46834      53758     61707     */         */
Operating Expenses:         Actual        24075     24982      26140     30382     57157
Capital Expenditure:        Estimate      66231    121278      64308     */        */
Capital Expenditure:        Actual         19553     89806     68935    113299     53841
Net Surplus:                 Estimate       1082      1244      1419     */         */
Net Surplus:                 Actual        7655       6087     10922      6438      13518
1991      1992      1993      1994       1995
Local Revenues:              Estimate                */        */        41037     45326
Local Revenues:             Actual        30120      40606     44126    ***/
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Estimate                 */        */        54066     68956
Surcharge & Shared Taxes:   Actual        33852      42723     49566    ***/
Grants:                      Estimate                                    44934     48259
Grants:                      Actual       41535      37659     57409    ***/
Total Resources:            Estimate                                    144592    167096
Total Resources:            Actual       111292    129545    160720    ***/
Operating Expenses:          Estimate      */        */        */        87208    100691
Operating Expenses:          Actual       68231      74257     86220    ***/
Capital Expenditure:         Estimate     */         */        */        30300     36332
Capital Expenditure:        Actual        27187      35358     52254    ***/
Net Surplus:                 Estimate                *1        *1        27084     30073
Net Surplus:                 Actual        15874     19930     22246    **
*/ Estimates in SAR made only to FY1988 (SAR Annex 11)
**/ Estimates for FY 1994 and FY 1995 taken from city's 5 year plan prepared in 1992
***/ Actual results to FYI 993.



-34-
b) Financial Impact
Key Indicators - SONGKHLA
Financial Results - Percentages
1986       1987       1988       1989        1990
Local Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate         52%         52%        52%         -           -
Actual           77%        78%        77%         68%        40%
Local & Surcharge/Shared Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate         77%         77%        77%         -           -
Actual          135%       136%       149%        135%        86%
Local Revenues as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate          21%        16%        25%         -           -
Actual           36%        16%        19%         14%        18%
Surcharge & Shared Taxes as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate          10%         8%        12%         -
Actual           27%        12%        18%         14%        21%
Grants as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate          19%        13%        21%         -           -
Actual           37%        53%        55%        63%         49%
1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
Local Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate           -          -          -         47%        45%
Actual           44%        55%        51%          -          -
Local & Surcharge/Shared Revenues as % of
Operating Expenses:            Estimate           -          -          -        109%        113%
Actual           94%       112%       109%
Local Revenues as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         28%         27%
Actual           27%        31%        27%          -          -
Surcharge & Shared Taxes as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         37%         41%
Actual           30%        33%        31%          -          -
Grants as % of
Total Resources:               Estimate           -          -          -         31%         29%
Actual           37%        290/o      36%          -          -



--35--
7. Status of Major Covenants
Covenant                     Subiect                         Compliance/Comments
Loan
AEreement
2.02 (b)          Borrower to open and maintain in   Borrower elected  to  use  existing  MOF
dollars a Special Account.            revolving fund and Bank approved request to
delete this category from Schedule 1.
3.01 (b)          Borrower to enter into project financing   Delayed compliance. Arrangements were not
and implementation arrangements with   completed until January 1986, delaying loan
MOI and cause MOI to make such   effectiveness by two months (Section 6.01).
arrangements with each Project City,
satisfactory to Bank.
3.01 (c)          Project to be carried out substantially in   Slow compliance.  Overall completion was
accordance  with  inplementation   about four years behind schedule.
schedule satisfactory to the Bank,
including activities to be undertaken   The required levels of staffing were achieved
and appointment of key staff to Project   only in two cities (Chiang Mai and Songkhla).
Units established within DOLA, PWD
and each Project City.
3.02              Procurement of goods and works and   Generally satisfactory compliance, although
employment  of  consultants  to  be   cumbersome procedures for reviewing and
governed  by  Schedule 4  of Loan   approving  contract awards contributed  to
Agreement.                            substantial project delays.
3.04 (b)         Borrower to:
Satisfactory compliance with respect to
(i) maintain records adequate to monitor   records of physical progress and costs; records
Project progress, including costs and   are excellent. Data conerning benefits derived
the benefits to be derived from it; and    from the project were not collected, however.
(iii)  furnish  to  the  Bank  such   Satisfactory compliance with respect to reports
information  as  the  Bank  shall  on physical progress and costs; reports are
reasonably request on project costs and,   very good.  No reports on benefits were
where appropriate, the benefits ....  requested or received.



--36--
7. Status of Maior Covenants
Covenant                     Subject                       Compliance/Comments
Loan
Agreement
3.04 (d)         Not later than six months after the   Satisfactory  compliance, although benefits
closing date, or such later date as may   from physical components are not reported.
be agreed, the Borrower to fumish to
the Bank a report on the execution and
initial operation of the project, its costs
and benefits, the performance of the
Borrower and the Bank, etc, etc..
3.05             Borrower to acquire as and when   Generally  satisfactory  compliance.   Few
needed all land and rights required for   contracts were delayed by land acquisition
carrying out the Project.            problems.
3.06             Borrower to cause each Project City to:
(a)  by 10/01/87 furnish to the Bank   Delayed compliance. At Borrower's request,
for comment an action program   compliance date extended to 02/01/88 due to
to  improve  operation  and   delay by Project Cities in providing data.
maintenance of roads, drainage   Program furnished on 02/28/88.
and sanitation works; and
(b)  carry out the programs.
3.07             For Part B of the Project, the Borrower
to:
(a)  by 12/31/85 furnish to Bank for   Delayed but satisfactory compliance.
comment,  a  plan   for   At Borrower's request, and due to delay in
marketing/operation by Songkhla  loan effectiveness, agreed date for furnishing
of  the  commercial/industrial   plan was extended to 01/31/86. Draft plan
zone, and thereafter cause the   reviewed by Bank in 01/86 and final report
plan to be carried out; and    furnished in 05/86.
(b)  cause Songkhla to make, by   Delayed but satisfactory compliance.
06/30/86 an agreement with the   At Borrower's request, date for compliance
FMO, or other organization, to  extended twice to 08/31/87 due to delay in
operate and maintain the new   contracting for construction of new fishport.
fishport and close the existing   Bank received agreement 11/87 and approved
FMO fishport.                  11/17/87



--37--
7. Status of Major Covenants
Covenant                     Subiect                        Com,liance/Comments
Loan
Agreement
4.02 (a)         Borrower to maintain, or cause to be   Satisfactory compliance.
maintained,  adequate  records  and
accounts in respect of the project, as
well as full accounts of each Project
City.
4.02 (b)         Borrower  shall  maintain  separate   Statements of expenditures were not used for
accounts reflecting all expenditures for   project.
which loan withdrawals requested on
basis of statements of expenditures.
4.02 (c)         Borrower to cause DOLA  and each   Satisfactory compliance on audits of project
Project City to have the accounts (4.02   accounts.
a) for each fiscal year audited and to
furnish copy of auditor's report to the   Very late compliance on audits for each
Bank not later than 6 months after   project city; average delay was 21 months and
year's end, including separate opinion   ranged from  51 months to 2 months with
on statements of expenditure (4.02 b).   improving trend.  Bank agreement, late in
project, to accept reports in Thai language
with covering statement by supervising
government agency as to adequacy and results
of audits, reduced delays significantly.
4.04             Borrower to carry out action program    Satisfactory compliance.   New  accounting
for fiscal improvement and municipal  systems were implemented and progress on
finance reform  in consultation with  revenue enhancement has been satisfactory.
Bank.
6.01             The agreements on project financing   Delayed compliance.  See Section 3.01 (b)
and implementation with MOI and and   above.
between MOI and each Project City
(Section 3.01 b) to be completed as an
additional  condition   of  loan
effectiveness.



-38-
8. Use of Bank Resources
a) Bank Staff/Consultant Inputs
(Staff weeks)
Stage of
Proiect Cycle            Bank Fiscal Year
Pre-
FY85    FY85       FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89
Preparation/
Preappraisal       137.2
Appraisal           77.5
Negotiations         6.4      16.6
Supervision                    1.1      16.8      13.8      5.4       7.1
PCR Prep.           _         _         -         -         -         _
TOTALS          221.1     17.7      16.8      13.8      5.4       7.1
Stage of
Project Cycle       Bank Fiscal Year
FY90      FY91      FY92     FY93      FY94       FY95      TOTALS
Preparation/
Preappraisal                                                                    137.2
Appraisal                                                                        77.5
Negotiations                                                                     23.0
Supervision         4.2       6.2       7.7       7.4        4.7                 74.4
1/
PCR Prep. _         -         _         _         0.2        4.8        5.0       10.0
TOTALS          4.2       6.2       7.7       7.6        9.0       5.0       322.1
1/ Estimated



-39-
8. Use of Bank Resources
b) Bank Missions
Overall
Type of                                    Performance                      Problem
Mission              Dates                  Staff Ratings                    Types
Identification        02/79                 (1) Consult.
Identification        05/79                 (1) Staff
Identification        07/16-08/03/79        (4) Staff
(1) Consult.
Preparation           11/79                 (1) Staff
(1) Consult.
Preparation           04/14-21/80           (1) Consult.
Preparation           05/16-06/06/80        (3) Staff
Preparation           07/80                 (4) Staff
Preparation           11/12-12/13/80        (4) Staff
Preparation           09/81                 (3) Staff
Preparation           02/82                 (5) Staff
Pre-appraise          08/09-31/82           (3) Staff
(2) Consults.
Pre-appraise          03/02-09/83           (2) Staff
Appraisal             05/02-25183           (4) Staff
(1) Consult.
Post-appraisal        12/83                 (1) Staff
Post-appraisal        09/84                 (1) Staff
SPN # 1               06/85                 (2) Staff                         I
SPN # 2               10/14-21/85           (2) Staff                         I
SPN # 3               02/12-03/06/86        (2) Staff                         I
SPN #4                10/10-17/86           (2) Staff                         I



-40-
8. Use of Bank Resources
b) Bank Missions (Continued)
Overall
Type of                                 Performance                     Problem
Mission             Dates                Staff Ratings                  Types
SPN # 5              03/13-27/87          (2) Staff                      1
SPN # 6              08/29-31/87          (2) Staff                      1
SPN # 7              02/26-03/01/88       (2) Staff                      1
SPN # 8              10/18-20/88          (2) Staff                      1
SPN # 9              11/28-12/09/89       (2) Staff                      1
SPN # 10             10/01-12/90          (1) Staff                      1
SPN # 11             06/06-07/91          (1) Staff
SPN # 12             11/02-12/91          (1) Staff                      l
(1) Consult.
SPN # 13             02/09-15/92          (1) Staff                      1
(1) Consult.
SPN # 14             03/12-19/93          (1) Staff                      1
(1) Consult.                   Procurement
SPN # 15             10/18-22/93          (1) Staff                      I
(1) Consult.                   Procurement
SPN # 16             01/31-02/01/94       (1) Staff                      1
(1) Consult.                   Procurement



-41-
ANNEXES



-42-
Annex 1
1/
Description of the Project
The objectives of the project are to improve the basic infrastructure in the Project Cities, to
strengthen municipal administration, particularly in finance and planning, and in implementation, operation
and maintenance of urban services, and to strengthen the capacity of MOI to assist municipalities in
carrying out their development programs.
The project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Infrastructure Improvements
1.        The carrying out of road, bridge and drainage improvements in the Project Cities,
including, inter alia, the provision of road maintenance equipment to Khon Kaen.
2.        The carrying out of improvements in the wastewater collection and treatment
facilities in Nakhon Ratchasima and Khon Kaen and the strengthening of solid waste
management in Nakhon Ratchasima, Khon Kaen and Songkhla through the
provision of landfill disposal facilities, workshops and equipment therefor.
3.        The carrying out of slum  improvement measures in Chiang Mai, Nakhon
Ratchasima and Songkhla, including access and environmental sanitation facilities.
Part B:   Revenue Earning Facilities
The construction of a fishport and adjacent commercial/industrial zone in Songkhla.
Part C:   Technical Assistance and Training
The provision of technical assistance and training to MOI and the Project Cities for
purposes of:
(i) strengthening municipal administration in the areas of planning,
programming, budgeting, accounting, financial management and
revenue improvement;
(ii) assisting in project implementation, operation and maintenance; and
(iii) preparing future urban development projects and undertaking
related studies.
* * *
The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1990.
1/        From Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement dated June 10, 1985.



-43-
Annex 2
1/                                             (Page I of 4)
Details of Proiect
Municipal Infrastructure
1.        Drainage and Sanitation. The interrelated systems of flood protection, drainage and waste
disposal comprise the chief infrastructure deficiency influencing environmental conditions in the Project
Cities. This was to be dealt with through the project as summarized below:
a)       Improvements to about 12 km of key main drains to be made in all Project Cities
together with improvements to about 16 km of secondary drains in roads and
streets. Seasonal and flash flooding are expected to be reduced and dry weather
flows improved thereby reducing stagnant conditions;
b)        Health-threatening and obnoxious conditions during low flow periods would be
further reduced as the major drainage waterways serving Khon Kaen and Nakhon
Ratchasima (also known as Korat) are improved through provision of 6 km of
wastewater interceptor sewers, pumping stations, and diversions. The condition of
badly polluted receiving waters also would be improved in Khon Kaen and Korat
through the introduction of wastewater treatment pond systems.   These
improvements represent the first attempt to deal with municipal wastewater on a
city-wide scale in Thailand.
c)        Solid waste management systems in Korat, Khon Kaen and Songkhla would be
improved to substantially reduce uncollected waste through increased collection
coverage and efficiency and the provision of sanitary landfill sites. Additional
collection, disposal and maintenance equipment would be provided and management
and operations improved through better planning and maintenance.
2.        Urban Transport  Urban transport improvements in all the Project Cities would reduce
congestion and facilitate traffic movement along principal arteries and in central commercial areas as
follows:
a)        About 14 km of road improvements and several major intersection improvements
would be constructed in all the Project Cities. They would include new roads,
realignments and widenings, resurfacing, road marking, traffic signals and sidewalk
construction.  Drainage improvements would be carried out simultaneously as
necessary.
b)       In Chiang Mai, a much needed four-lane bridge would be constructed over a river
dividing the municipal area. The capacity of the existing bridge would be improved
by widening to accommodate separated pedi-cab traffic streams.
c)        Small amounts of road maintenance equipment would be furnished to Khon Kaen as
part of an effort to upgrade municipal maintenance capacity.
1/        From paragraphs 2.04-2.12 of Staff Appraisal Report dated March 8, 1985.



-44-
Annex 2
(Page 2 of 4)
Details of Project (Continued)
Revenue EarninR Facilities
3.        A fishing port and commercial/industrial zone would be constructed at Songkhla as
a key measure in the municipality's efforts to stimulate commercial/industrial development, increase tourism
and improve productivity of the city's main industry, fishing. Existing inefficient and congested fish
handling facilities close to the city center caused environmental nuisance and depressed the potentially high
values of surrounding property. The improvements would include the following:
a)        a 340 m long main wharf and a 300 m long wharf for small craft would be
constructed on the fringe of a 23 ha site reclaimed from Songkhla Lake;
b)        about 4.6 ha of the site would be leased, together with the port facilities, by the
municipality to the Fish Marketing Organization, or other appropriate authority,
who would operate and maintain the port. The remaining 18.4 ha would be
serviced and leased by the municipality as an industrial/commercial zone. The
Government would prepare a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the marketing and
operation of the industrial estate, including typical leasing arrangements and
principles of the leasing fee determination; and
c)        treatment of the wastewater from the port and zone operations prior to discharge to
the environmentally sensitive lake.
Slum Improvements
4.        Four pockets of relatively high density, poorly serviced low-income residential areas in Chiang
Mai, Korat and Songkhla, containing about 1,750 families were to be provided with improved access,
drainage systems and solid waste collections. Where feasible, water and electricity supplies would be
arranged through the Provincial Water Works Authority (PWA), or the municipal supply in Korat, and the
Provincial Electricity Authority. (Water supplies to the slum areas in Chiang Mai, Korat and Songkhla were
inadequate and were to be addressed under separate water supply projects planned by the respective water
authorities). The municipalities in each case were to be assisted in the implementation by the National
Housing Authority (NHA).
Institutional Development
5.        In all Project Cities, the project was to address administrative and financial deficiencies, as
follows:
a)        new accounting and budgeting systems were to be installed and improvements to the
municipalities' planning procedures and financial reporting were to be introduced;
b)        assistance was to be provided to address inefficiencies in the collection and
assessment of property taxes, the main source of local tax revenue;



-45-
Annex 2
(Page 3 of 4)
Details of Project (Continued)
c)        the Central Government was expected to amend the appropriate legislation to permit
increases in local fee, fine and permit revenue; and
d)        the project was to support the establishment in each Project City of a permanent
unit concerned with economic, social and spatial planning and evaluation as well as
coordination with central planning agencies.
6.         Technical Assistance and Training  The principal aims of the technical assistance and training
component were to: strengthen Government's project implementation capacity through advisory assistance
and engineering services; and to assist Government in the preparation of a future regional cities project
which would reinforce and further develop the policy measures formulated by this project. The studies
included in the project were:
a)        a review of the Municipal Development Fund; and
b)        preparation studies for future regional cities development projects, including, inter-
alia: city selection criteria; further municipal administration and revenue reform
measures; and feasibility and preliminary engineering.
7.        Advisory and Engineering Services for Project Implementation Technical assistance was to be
obtained from local and expatriate consultants to provide on-the-job training and to supplement the skills
and capacity of the city and central agency staffs concerned with project implementation as follows:
a)        the Public Works Department (PWD) to be provided with 20 staff-years of foreign
and 62 staff-years of local consultants' assistance for detailed engineering,
construction supervision, project management and monitoring. Also, consultants
would provide on-the-job training to 34 staff-years of junior staff from PWD and
the cities;
b)        the Department of Local Administration (DOLA) would be provided with 15 staff-
years of municipal financial management advisory services to assist with: (i)
implementation and monitoring of new systems; (ii) design and implementation of
project accounts; and (iii) study the requirements for an expansion of the Municipal
Development Fund.
8.        Training  In addition to the training of project agency staff as above, the following training
assistance and equipment was to be provided:
a)        to PWD for (i) wastewater analysis training and laboratory equipment; and (ii)
training fellowships; and
b)        to DOLA  for municipal administration training, equipment, study tours and
fellowships.



-46-
Annex 2
(Page 4 of 4)
Details of Project (Continued)
9.        Future Proiect Preparation and Studies Assistance would be provided to the National Economic
and Social Development Board (NESDB) and the Ministry of Interior (MOI) for planning, feasibility and
preliminary engineering studies for a future project, based on the experience gained on this project.



-47-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
Songkhla Municipality - Fishport
Financial Rate of Return
(Current Prices - Million Baht)
Appraisal Estimate
Civil                     New                        Old
Works                      Fish-                      Fish-
&                         port        Plot          port       NET
Year          Land        0 & M          Fees         Fees         Rent       FLOW
1/           2/                        3/
1986           4.44           -            --           --           --        - 4.44
1987         102.46           -            --           --           --       -102.46
1988          62.63           --          --            --           --        - 62.63
1989          70.87           --          --            --           --        - 70.87
1990                        3.11         4.50        46.70          5.60        53.69
1991                        3.27         4.50         15.50         5.88        22.61
1992                        3.42         4.50         18.20         6.17        25.45
1993                        3.60         5.60         17.40         6.48        25.88
1994                        3.78         5.60         8.60          6.81        17.23
1995                        3.97         5.60         9.50          7.15        18.28
1996                        4.17         7.00         10.00         7.51        20.34
1997                        4.38         7.00         10.60         7.88        21.10
1998                        4.60         7.00         11.15         8.28        21.83
1999                        4.83         8.75         11.50         8.69        24.11
2000                        5.07         8.75         26.75         9.13        39.56
2001                        5.32         8.75         31.15         9.58        44.16
2002                        5.59         10.94        33.60        10.06        49.01
2003                        5.87         10.94        31.05        10.56        46.68
2004                        6.16         10.94        15.40        11.09        31.27
Financial Rate of Return = 7.67%
Notes on Appraisal Estimates:
1/ Estimated cost of land for new fishport and commercial/industrial plots.
2/ Taken from fishport feasibility study: Special Report No. 2, March 1984.
3/ Lease fees for new commercial and industrial plots.
4/ Lease fees from businesses on land of the old fishport.



-48-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Songkhla Municipality - Fishport
Financial Rate of Return
(Current Prices - Million Baht)
Actual
Civil       New                        Old
Works         Fish-                     Fish-
&           port        Plot          port       NET
Year          Land          Fees        Fees         Rent       FLOW
5/          6/           7/
1986            --           --           --           --         0.00
1987          13.78          --           -          0.11        -13.67
1988          33.61          --           --         0.11        -33.50
1989          61.33          --           --         0.11        -61.22
1990          25.34          -            --         0.09        -25.25
1991                        6.18          --           --         6.18
1992                        9.89          -          0.89        10.78
1993                       10.33          --         0.93        11.26
1994                       11.36         1.20        0.98        13.54
1995                       12.50         1.20         1.03       14.73
1996                       13.75         1.20         1.08       16.03
1997                       15.12        4.63          1.14       20.89
1998                       16.63        4.63          1.19       22.45
1999                       18.29        8.30          1.25       27.84
2000                       20.12         8.30         1.31       29.73
2001                       22.14         8.30         1.38        31.82
2002                       24.35         8.90         1.45        34.70
2003                       26.49         8.90         1.52        36.91
2004                       29.46         8.90         1.60        39.96
Financial Rate of Return = 8.96%
Notes on actual results and new projections:
5/ Figures extrapolated from actual results 1991 through 1993 and projected on expected increased use.
6/ Contracted amounts to be paid to the city by the developer.
7/ Old fishport sold and actual negotiated fees to be paid to the city through year 2004.



0 -



- M   A.-'_T 1,3 --
,e-.    -         ,  lj  .. = 
r; .I: ;    , -1   .   _                           . -..



