Document of
The World Bank
FOl OFCIAL USE ONLY
Ripte No. P-4010-Tm
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
CUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUINT EQUIVALENT TO $27.5 MILLION
TO
TEE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 4, 1985
TIs igoc.eat ias a strctd disrtlu. a_ my be .W by recipkuts may in he peiformsm  ofr
thdr ofca dufits cs.ea ma  ne otherwise be dscd withou Wold Dak mAtlelrhuon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit .               Baht (B)
$1                 =          B 28.0
B 1                -          $0.035
B 1 million        =          35,714
(The Bhat, since November 1984, has been pegged to a basket of currencies and
the rate is established daily.  The exchange rate used in the SAR is $1 =
B 27.0 based on the rate which prevailed at the time of recalculations made in
preparation for loan negotiations.  The change in cost estimates since that
time as a result of ezchange rate movement has been insignificant.)
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                   =         39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)         =         10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)          =         35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =         0.62 mile
1 rai                         =         0.16 hectare or 0.395 acre
1 hectare (ha)                =         6.25 rai or 2.471 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAB      -      Ausrralian Development Assistance Bureau
BMA       -      Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
DOLA      -      Department of Local Administration
DTCP      -      Department of Town and Country Planning
FMO       -      Fish Marketing Organization
MDF       -      Municipal DeveLopment Fund
MOF       -      Ministry of FinAnce
MOI       -      Ministry of Interior
MWWA      -      Metropolitan Water Works Authority
NESDB     -      National Economic and Social Development Board
NHA       -      National Housing Authority
OUD       -      Office of Urban Development
PWA       -      Provincial Water Works Authority
PWD       -      Public Works Department
UNDP      -      United Nations Development Program
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOl OMCIL USE ONLY
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Kingdom of Thailand.
Beneficiaries:  Municipalities of Chiang 4ai, Khon Kaen, Nakhon Ratchasima,
and Songkhla
Amount:         $27.5 million.
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Relending
Terms:        Grants to the beneficiaries.
Project         The proposed project has been designed to support Government
Description: efforts to stimulate economic development and regional growth
in the three poorest of Thailand's six regions by: (a) improving
selected basic infrastructure in the four project cities
including: (i) road and drainage improvements, (ii) wastewater
disposal, (iii) solid waste collection, (iv) flood protection,
(v) new roads and bridges, and (vi) road maintenance equip-
ment; (b) provision of a combined fishing port and commercial/
industrial zone in one of the cities; and (c) institutional
development through policy measures and technical assistance
which would strengthen municipal administration and the
Ministry of Interior in carrying out development programs.
Risks:          The main project risks are an untested implementation capacity
of the project cities for a project of this magnitude and the
uncertainty of the cities' ability to collect adequate revenue
to repay their share of the project loans. The principal
implementation risk is related to land acquisition. Technical
assistance and other measures proposed under the project to
strengthen the involved institutions and to improve municipal
finances are expected to minimize these risks.
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutiesL Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed Vitbout World Bank authorizrtion.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:            Category                Local   Foiei n   Total
(US$ mLllionT--
Drainage and sanitation             4.3     2.9       7.2
Urban transport                     7.2     4.0      11.2
Revenue earning facilities          3.8      1.8      5.6
Slum improvement                    0.8     0.4       1.2
Land                                6.0      -        6.0
Technical assistance                2.5     4.0       6.5
Project administration              1.2      -        1.2
Base Cost                    25.9    13.1       39.0
Physical contingencies              2.6      1.6      4.2
Price contingencies                 4.8     2.9       7.7
Total Project Cost /a        33.3    17.6       50.9
Bank Front-End Fee /b                -       -         -
Total Financing Required    33.3    17.6        50.9
Financing Plan:
IBBD                               14.9    12.6      27.5
ADAB                                 -      5.0       5.0
Government                          5.6      -        5.6
Project Cities                     12.8      -       12.8
Total                        33.3    17.6       50.9
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY         1985     1986      1987     1988      1989
z~~~US$ million) - -
Annual           1.5      4.5       9.4      8.1       4.0
Cumulative       1.5      6.0      15.4     23.5      27.5
Rate of Return:  30% (weighted average)
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4673-TB, dated March 8, 1985
MLap: IBRD-17451
/a Including estimated taxes and duties totaling US$5.1 million.
7i Bank Front-end Fee is OZ.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
;OR A REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of US$27.5 million to heLp
finance a Regional Cities Development Project. The Australian Development
Assistance Bureau (ADAB) would cofinance part of the technical assistance and
training costs associated with the project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a
Dvnamic Economy" (Report No. 3067-TH) was issued on December 23, 1980. It
proposed a medium-term strategy to deal with the adjustment problems resulting
from the two oil price shocks of the 1970s. Subsequently, the Royal Thai
Coveznment initiated a program of structuraL adjustment policies, which the
World Bank supported wich two structural adjustment loans. An economic report
entitled "Managing Public Resources for Structural Adjustment" (Report
No. 4366-TH) was and issued on August 31, 1983. It reviewed progress in the
implementation of structural adjustment policies and proposed directions for
further action, especially in regard to the mobilization and management of
public resources.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Since the early 1970s, the political process in Thailand has broad-
ened and matured significantly. Initially, this was accompanied by frequent
and sometimes abrupt changes in government leadership. Since the 1977 general
elections, however, Thailand has enjoyed a period of greater political stabi-
lity and continuity of policy. Cabinet shuffles have continued to take place,
reflecting shifts in the makeup of the coalitions of political parties, mili-
tary and business leaders, and technocrats, which have governed the country
for the past five years. However, only one change in Prime Minister has
occurred during this period.  General Prem Tinsulanonda was appointed as Prime
Minister in March 1980 and has been successful in mobilizing support for a
major program of economic structural adjustment, embodied in the Fifth Five-
Year Plan, 1982-86. Senior civil servants supporting this program were given
key positions in the public sector. Although there are continuing internal
debates on the details and speed of policy implementation, overall, a broad
public consensus on national policy priorities has been maintained.
4.        National elections were held again on April 18, 1983, in which can-
didates from ten parties were elected to Parliament. No party secured an
outright majority, but Prime Minister Prem succeeded in forming a new four-
party coalition which includes two of the three leading parties and has the



-2-
backing of approximately two-thirds of the elected representatives. As part
of a gradual constitutional reform aiming at increased representative
government, transitional arrangements had been in place for a five-year period
to permit serving military, civilian and other non-elected officials to con-
tinue to play a stabilizing role in both the legislative and executive
branches of government through their appointment to the powerful senate and to
Cabinet posts. These transitional arrangements were allowed to lapse, cur-
tailing the senate's powers and prohibiting military and civilian officials
from participating in the Cabinet. These changes, when combined with the
current coalition's diversity, and the Prime Minister's lack of an independent
political power base, have made it hard to achieve a consensus on difficult
economic issues since the April 1983 election. However, the Government has
endorsed the Fifth Plan's objectives of improved economic management, struc-
tural adjustment and poverty alleviation and has moved cautiously in continued
Plan implementation. Continuation of ongoing policy and institutional reforms
is therefore expected.
Past Economic Trends
5.        Thailarad's economy grew rapidly over the past two decades and devel-
oped successfully by most standards of international comparison. Its per
capita income growth of almost 5% per annum during 1960-1980 was among the
highest sustained rates among developing countries. The reduction of poverty
was substantial for a country still among the lowest third of middle-income
developing countries, as the overall incidence of poverty dropped from about
57% in the early 1960s to about 31Z in the mid-1970s. Despite its continuing
reliance on agriculture, Thailand experienced a far-reaching transformation of
its economic and social structure during the past two decades, with a high
growth in modern industrial and service sector activities, extension of trans-
port and communications infrastructure throughout the country, rapid modern-
ization, and a significant increase in the openness of the economy to trade
and capital flows, tourism and international labor migration. The rapid
growth in Thailand's exports played a particularly important role in stimulat-
ing aggregate demand and providing the necessary means to finance imports.
Moreover, because of this rapid export growth, the Thai debt service burden
remained moderate.
6.        However, because of its increased openness, its heavy dependence on
imported oil, and an expansionary fiscal stance in the Late 1970s, the Thai
economy was substantially affected by the two oil price shocks and by the
ensuing international econonic upheaval. A relatively high rate of overall
growth was maintained initially but this was accompanied by accelerating
inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on
foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 10Z in 1979, by 20Z in 1980,
and by 13% in 1981. The Central Government deficit on average exceeded 4% of
GDP in the period 1979-82. Notwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the
current account deficit amounted to 7.7Z of GDP in 1979, 6.2% in 1980, and
6.9% in 1981; consequently, there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's
traditionally low external debt.



- 3 -
7.        Initially, the Government was slow in responding to the changing
ezternal conditions, but, beginning in 1980, policy adjustments were under-
taken at a gradually accelerating pace through 1982. They included sharp
increases in prices for most petroleum products, electricity and other public
services; measures to increase government revenues; a substantial increase in
real interest rates; and the changes in regulations to increase financial
stability and monetary restraint. In October 1981 the Government inaugurated
its Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) which made structural adjustment one of its
major priorities. In March 1982, the first SAL for Thailand was approved,
followed by SAL II in March 1983.  Under these loans the Government committed
itself to taking steps toward adjustments in the structure of the economy
through reductions in domestic price controls, export taxes and controls over
agricultural exports; developing a program for improved land tenure; taking
steps toward rationalization of the structure of incentives for industrial
production, exports, and investment; promoting energy conservation and
efficient development of domestic energy resources; and improving the Govern-
ment's tax structure and administration, public investment planning, and other
areas of public administration. Progress under both SALs was satisfactory,
although implementation of SAL II was at a somewhat slower pace than origin-
ally expected, especially in the area of public resource management.
8.        Macroeconomic developments in Thailand during the last two years
(1982-84) were strongly influenced by a number of external factors. The most
important of these were the worldwide recession in 1982, gradual recovery in
1983 and 1984, with, however, continuing high interest rates and increasing
strength of the dollar to which the baht was linked. The average growth rate
of GDP for 1982-84 was around 5% per annum. This lower than historical growth
performance was due to a combination of high interest rates at home and
abroad, worldwide recession and thus weak export prices and growth. Agricul-
tural production which had increased slowly in 1982 and 1983 because of poor
weather and low commodity prices, rebounded somewhat in 1984 as weather
improved permitting paddy rice, maize, and cassava production to reach record
levels. As a result of weak domestic demand in 1982, lower international
prices, and an appreciating exchange rate, domestic inflation dropped from 13%
in 1981 to less than 7% in 1983 and 2% in 1984.
9.        The growth of export value and volume picked up in 1984 after having
dropped in 1983. In 1984, export value increased by 16%, as a result of a
good 1983/84 crop year, lead by a 29.4Z volume increase in rice exports.
Imports, on the other hand, which had resumed rapid growth in 1983 because of
a revival in domestic demand, slowed down considerably in 1984 increasing only
by 1.2% in value terms. Given these trade developments, the current account
deficit, which had averaged 7Z of GDP for 1979-1981 and which reached a high
of about 7.5Z of GDP in 1983, came down to about 5.3% in 1984. However, even
this improvement left the current account deficit above sustainable levels and
the Government decided in November 1984 to devalue the baht by 14.8% and to
delink it from the US dollar. The external imbalance also reflected an exces-
sive public sector investment-savings gap which averaged about 7X of GDP in
FY81 and FY82 but impreved to about 5% of GDP in FY83 and FY84. Since the
current accouat and fiscal deficits remain at unsustainable levels, continued
implementation of the structural adjustment program remains essential and
urgent. In particular, action is requi:ed to improve the international



-4-
competitiveness of the economy and to further reduce the public sector
investment-savings gap. The Government is considering further measures to
reduce the pressure on the balance of payments in the context of preparing the
next phase of its structural adjustment program.
Development Constraints and Prospects
10.       During the 1980s, many of the positive factors which contributed to
Thailand's rapid economic growth and reduction in poverty over the preceding
two decades wiLl continue to do so, including the relatively equitable distri-
bution of agricultural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved tech-
nology, a good network of public infrastructure, and a dynamic private sector
in industry, agriculture and services. Substantial reductions in the rate of
population growth between the mid-1960s and late 1970s and discovery of domes-
tic gas and oil supplies are further positive factors which will support the
continued rapid development of Thailand.
11.       Against these favorable factors, however, a number of important con-
straints must be recognized and addressed: (a) The rapid growth of Thailand's
public sector over the last decade, particularly of major state enterprises,
without commensurate growth in public resource mobilization, has posed a
serious challenge to improvements in institutional and fiscaL management.
(b) For the longer term, the exhaustion of agricultural land reserves could
severely limit employment growth and exports of the agricultural sector,
unless rapid, input-intensive agricultural development proceeds. (c) Further
industrial development, exports and employment growth may similarly be limited
unless the international competitiveness and diversification of Thai industry
are strengthened through correct incentives and support for marketing, finance
and technological developments. (d) Despite the promising outlook for
domestic energy resources, their development is costly and will take time, and
thus continued efforts in energy conservation are required. (e) The decline
in the population growth rate appears to have slowed in recent years; further
reductions will require innovative policies. (f) Continued long-term develop-
ment and poverty alleviation will also depend on continued efforts in human
resource development, including education, technical skill development, and
improvements in health and nutrition. (g) Finally, the pace of development
will increasingly be hampered by inefficient metropolitan growth in Bangkok,
unless steps are taken to rationalize the city's land use and transport, water
drainage and sanitation systems; Thailand's secondary cities, too, require
strengthening of their infrastructure and administrative capabilities to
prepare them for the expected future growth in urban population.
12.       These long-term economic development concerns have been compounded
by medium-term adjustment problems as a result of the two oil price shocks and
the subsequent world recession accompanied by poor export prospects and high
real interest rates. Economic projections carried out for the 1983 Economic
Report, and subsequently, indicate that accelerated implementation of the
Government's program for structural adjustment would be needed to restore
external balance for the economy during the Fifth Plan period. Over the
medium term, the slower growth of GDP (5.4Z per annum for the remainder of the
1980s compared with 7.4% in the late 1970s), while still better than that of
most other developing countries, will make it more difficult to reduce the



-5-
incidence of poverty and heightens the need for policies which raise labor
absorption, and for continued efforts in the areas of human capital develop-
ment and rural development.
13.       To help address these constraints, the Government has sought the
assistance of the IMF and the Bank. During the past four years, Thailand made
=       purchases from the IMF under a compensatory financing facility (SDR 186
million), a buffer stock financing facility (SDR 58 million), and two standby
arrangements (totalling SDR 617 million). Thailand sought assistance from the
*       Bank in implementing its structural adjustment program through two structural
adjustment loans and sector work, and in lending to priority sectors. The
Government has also expressed its interest in obtaining Bank assistance in
preparing the Sixth Five Year Plan (1987-91). The country economic and sector
work program for Thailand has been structured accordingly.
Financing Requirements
14.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures, though they are
expected to drop somewhat in relation to CDP. In order to reduce the public
sector investment-savings gap from its current level of about 5% of GDP to
sustainable levels, much greater efforts will be required to mobilize domestic
resources than in the past. The Government's domestic revenue, as a percen-
tage of GDP (about 15% in recent years), is low compared to that of other
developing countries at similar levels of development and has not been
increasing. While the Government has taken steps to revise the tax structure
and to improve tax administration and collections, further measures are
needed. In addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which has
stabilized in the wake of tariff increases since 1980 and cutbacks in overly
ambitious investment programs, will need further improvement. The Government
is currently reviewing appropriate policies to achieve a more efficient and
financially viable state enterprise sector.
15.       Despite these policy measures, the demand for external resources
will increase. Macroeconomic projections indicate that the current account
deficit may well remain above 3% of GDP through most of the 1980s. This will
require large amounts of external borrowing, totaling about $30 billion over
the period 1984-90, of which about 45Z is expected to be in the form of public
and publicly guaranteed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, total medium- and long-term debt service payments as a percentage
of exports of goods and nonfactor services will rise from 15.4% in 1980 to
20.9% in 1990. The resulting debt burden, projected on the basis of measures
implemented to date, confirms the need for further adjustment policies
currently under consideration by the Government.
16.       Official donors, particularly the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
of Japan and the development banks, have been expanding their programs to meet
a larger part of Thailand's growing public resource requirements. The rest
has been financed mainly through syndicated loans and bond issues. The
Government has established a National Loan Policy Committee to coordinate and



- 6 -
approve all borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand is improving
its procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order to keep track
of total foreign debt. External agencies, including the Bank Group, have in
recent years increasingly concentrated on project lending to Thailand in some
sectors that have high social benefits but low foreign exchange savings or
earnings. To achieve the Level of external resource transfers that is now
required, it is necessary, in selected projects where the foreign exchange
component is low, to finance some local currency expenditures.
PART II - BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1984, had received 78 IBRD loans (including
two third-window loans) and six IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellations)
$3,414 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date,
$1,082 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments. Bank loans
and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$1,936 million as of September 30, 1984 and accounted for 16.7% of Thailand's
total debt (disbursed and outstanding/. The Bank Group's share of Thailand's
total debt service payments amounted to 10.2% in 1984. As of September 30,
1984, IFC had made twenty-three commitments totalling $225.3 million in
fourteen projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been primarily in
industry and in the development of financial institutions. Prospects for
increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced by expanding private
sector investment activity and by increased potential for developing
indigenous resources.
18.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in percen-
tage, has been as follows: 28X for energy; 26% for agriculture and rural
development; 16% for transportatic'n; 9% for telecommunications; 4% for urban
development; 5Z for education; 2% 'or industry; 1% for population/health/
nutrition; and 9% for structural adjustment lending. Overall implementation
of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the past five
years. Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7Z in 1977 to 31.6% in
1983 which compare with 19.4% and 17.9%, respectively for Philippines and
Morocco in 1983.
19.       The main objective of Bank Group activities in Thailand is to
promote the country's economic growth and development through structural
adjustment, productive investments in the key sectors of the economy, and
targeted poverty alleviation measures. The economic and sector work program
is designed to achieve this objective by assisting the Government to formulate
appropriate economic policies and programs. Major macro and sectoral issues
are being addressed through SALs as well as project lending. Specifically,
current Bank operations are helping Thailand to improve its public resource
management, enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of productive sectors,
and rationalize the policies and investments for infrastructure development.
The Government has valued the analytical input and technical assistance
provided by the Bank in these areas, especially through our economic work and



- 7 -
structural adjustment Lending. However, the level of the Bank's future
lending to Thailand is likeLy to continue to be affected by statutory ceilings
on public foreign borrowing, reductions in public investment programs, and the
country's ready access to foreign commerciaL and concessional sources of
finance. The Government has also indicated its preference to seek highly
concessional aid or to use its own resources for education, health and
population related investments. As a resuLt, the levels of bank lending
sought by the Government are likely to be cLoser to the historical average
over the last ten years rather than to the peaks achieved in some years. In
cofinancing, the Bank's primary concern will be to identify appropriate
sources of concessional funding for technical assistance associated with Bank
operations. The above factors are being taken into account in determining the
level and composition of the Bank's operations program in the following areas.
20.       Energy.  Energy has been a significant sector for Bank assistance to
Thailand. The sector's needs and investment programs are likely to remain
large, and a number of planning and pricing policy issues continue to deserve
Government and Bank attention. In the past, the Bank has helped finance
projects for power generation and distribution, for lignite mining, and for
the development and processing of hydrocarbon resources. Bank assistance
through these projects has served to strengthen the institutions involved in
the sector. Policy analyses and dialogue through CESW and SALs have addressed
issues in energy management, planning and the incentive structure. The Bank's
future assistance through energy and power projects combined with a CESW
program involving sector work and public investment propramming would help
ensure substantial Bank impact on policies and assist the Government to meet
its resource requirements for the relatively large investments planned in the
sector.
21.       Agriculture/Rural Development.  The importance of the agriculture
sector to the economy, and the potential for intensive farming and crop diver-
sification, suggest that it should normally continue to be a major focus of
Bank operations. Past 3ank assistance through projects has emphasized
development of the irrigation infrastructure, uplifting of backward areas,
improvements in land tenure, programs for rubber replanting, and strengthening
of the delivery systems for extension, research and credit. A number of
policy reforms in the areas of institutional coordination, poverty allevia-
tion, land reclassification, and reduced export taxation have been implemented
with support from the Bank's CESW program and via SALs. Future operations are
expected to continue these efforts and further concentrate on targeted poverty
alleviation, agricultural marketing and pricing and maintenance of existing
infrastructure. However, weaknesses in the provision of support services by
Government departments and some outstanding issues in rural credit and
mobilization of savings may limit future Bank assistance in these areas.
22.       Urban and Water Supply.  The Government intends to devote increasing
attention to the continued expansion and pressures of urban areas in the
country, especially Bangkok.  Urban and water supplr sectors provide consider-
able investment opportunities, but they also involve institutional and cost
sharing issues. Ongoing sector work for Bangkok as well as the preparatory
work for urban projects financed or under consideration by the Bank are pro-
viding a good basis for assistance in this sector. Future Bank assistance is



likely to concentrate on providing essential urban infrastructure and shelter
for low-income families in Bangkok and in regional cities.
23.       Transport.  Thailand's transport sector, dominated by road transpor-
tation, is generally well developed. The Bank has contributed to developing
transport infrastruccure through project lending for roads, railways, inland
waterways and ports.  Future Bank role would focus on investments in infra-
structure maintenance, operational efficiency, and selected construction as
well as on issues in institutional development, investment planning, and state
encerprise finances.
24.       Education.  Past Bank involvement in the education sector indicates
potential for improvement in most areas of the education and training system.
In view of the Government's current policy to finance social sectors from its
own budget without recourse to external sources, the Bank's future role may be
limited in the near term. Nonetheless we intend to keep current with sector
developments to assist in strengthening higher and technical education, par-
ticularly where critical for development in other sectors. Technical manpower
development is a priority area for which Government may seek Bank assistance
in future.
25.       Industry.  The Government evolving role, beyond policy setting, is
likely to include investments for export promotion, energy efficiency, and
technological change in engineering and agro-industrial subsectors. The Bank
has so far played a limited role in industrial development, primarily through
the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand. Major policy reforms have
been supported through SALs in the areas of trade policy, investment incen-
tives, and planning for large scale industrial investments. Future Bank
operations are likely to focus on the rationalization of the trade regime
together with additional measures for export development, and could be
complemented by credit facilities should Government seek resources from the
Bank for these purposes.
26.       Telecommunications.  The Bank has been closely associated with the
development of the domestic telephone network, and the Bank's first B loan was
made in connection with the third and fourth telecommunications projects.
Howeve;, the Government's plan for rapid network expansion is straining the
institituonal/managerial capacity and finances of the impLementing agency, the
Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT). It may thus take TOT sometime to
consolidate its operations before fully launching the next phase of expan-
sion. Meanwhile, Bank involvement would continue through supervision of the
ongoing project and as part of our dialogue on state enterprise performance
and development.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Background
27.       One out of every six of Thailand's 50 million people lives in an
urban area. In relation to many other Asian countries this is a low level of
urbanization. However, the annual rate of population growth in urban areas is



-9-
now estimated to be 5.3Z: about two and a half times faster than the national
rate and reflecting, in part, increasing rural-urban migration. There are
substantial gaps in economic performance and living standards motivating
migration between the predominantly rural peripheral regions and the rela-
tively industrialized central region, which includes the capital, Bangkok.
The disparities between Bangkok and the regional urban centers are reflected
most strikingly in population terms.  Less than one half of Thailand's
estimated urban population of 9.3 million people live in provincial cities and
towns; the majority, some 5.6 million people, live in Bangkok. The next
*       largest city, Chiang Mai, has a municipal population of about 160,000 which is
less than Bangkok's annual populati. growth.  By the end of this century
Thailand's urban growth is expected to have added over 10-12 million people
into its cities. At least half of this increase is likely to be absorbed by
provincial cities and towns, with the remainder being in Bangkok.
28.       It is estimated that 12Z of the urban population, some one million
people, live in househoLds which have total incomes at or below a relative
poverty level of 2000 Baht/month. The incidence of urban poverty is propor-
tionally greater in regional cities and towns outside the Central Region.
Among the cities to be addressed by the proposed project, the poor constitute
between 11 and 33% of the urban population (compared to 9% in Bangkok), total-
ling an estimated 25,000 families, almost one quarter of the urban poor that
live outside the capital. Incomes in the project cities have grown in recent
years, and it is estimated by Thailand's National Economic and Social
Development Board that the average economic growth rate over the next few
years up to 1990 will be about 5Z p.a. in the urban areas compared to a pro-
jected national growth rate of about 3.9Z.
29.       Provision of services in regional cities lag behind national urban
averages, although the cities' poor do not necessarily suffer greater service
deficiencies than higher income groups since their homes are typically spread
throughout the cities. In Chiang Mai, the best served of the regional cities,
piped water service, was until recent improvement, accessible to only 40X of
the population or little more than half the percentage of the population
served in Bangkok. Health services, likewise, were available to about one
third the degree possible in the capital. Social and industrial infrastruc-
ture both lag in development although degrees of deficiency differ among
cities. Responsibility for services in regional cities is fragmented among
various ministries' agencies and state enterprises as well as the municipal-
ities.  Conspicuous infrastructure deficiencies within the responsibility of
the municipalities are inadequate drainage and flood protection, poor
sanitation and inadequate road capacity. None of the municipalities has much
reserve infrastructure capacity to accommodate urban expansion nor do they
possess sufficient technical and financial resources to deal with the growing
backlog of remedial works.
30.       All of Thailand's municipalities are administered by municipal
organizations whose staff, policies and financial resources fall chiefly under
the purview of the Ministry of Interior (MOI), the largest and one of the
oldest of Thailand's ministries. The decision making powers of municipalities
are narrowly circumscribed by government regulations which largely determine
the level of annual budgets and expenditure programs, the level of fees which



- 10 -
may be charged for specific services and the number and quality of staff.
Revenue generation is weak and the past failure of Government to allow munici-
pal taxes and fees to keep pace with growth of expenditures has not only meant
an increasing drain on the central government budget but also that services
and maintenance of facilities have lagged significantly behind requirements.
Expenditure by provincial and local government in 1980, including Bangkok, was
24 billion Baht, which represented about 10% of total public sector expendi-
ture. About three-quarters of that expenditure was financed from central
government grants. Municipalities are less reliant on central grants than
rural local authorities since they receive a greater proportion of centrally
collected and administered surcharge and shared taxes. Municipal expenditure
in 1980, excluding Bangkok, was about 2 bilLion Baht, of which about 800 mil-
lion Baht or 402 was financed from central government grants.
Priorities and Bank Role in the Urban Sector
31.       Sector strategy.  In contrast to the economic growth objectives of
earlier National Economic and Social Development Plans, the Government's Fifth
Plan (1982-86) places emphasis on achieving, through structural adjustment
measures, greater economic efficiency and equitable distribution of
services. In support of the Government's efforts to attain its dual goals,
the Bank's urban sector lending strategy embodies three principal areas of
emphasis: (a) strengthening of the capabilities of national agencies and
local governments in planning, financing and delivering urban services;
(b) enhancement of urban centers (especially in the peripheral regions) to
stimulate economic development; and (c) poverty alleviation through the
provision of basic needs to the urban poor. Lending in Thailand's disparate
urban sector has two different emphases. In the Bangkok region, the emphasis
is on the objectives of poverty alleviation and institutional development to
improve urban efficiency. In regional cities, the appropriate emphasis is on
the redressal of key administrative and infrastructural deficiencies-which
cons.rain their role as service and market centers to the adjoining rural
economy. An essential key element in a regional cities strategy for Thailand
is the design of programs which enhance the attractiveness of urban centers
for a vide variety of productive activities. Of particular importance in the
longer term will be the strengthening of municipalities so that they will have
the capacity to formulate sound development programs and the means to mobilize
sufficient resources to implement them.
32.       Infrastructure Investment.  The development of regional cities
throughout Thailand will support the Government's poverty alleviation efforts.
It would help to strengthen the direct linkages between an urban and rural
development strategy, and provide some of the necessary conditions for
implementing the Government's emerging decentralization policy. A dynamic
urban environment suggests also an ability to attract industries which support
and supply the rural populace. Large industries are more likely to be
attracted by Bangkok's large consumer market, skilled labor pool, better
infrastructure and input supplies. It is, therefore, the development of
resource-based, small-scale enterprises such as agro-processing and handi-
crafts which holds the greatest promise for industrial development in the
outlying regions. Attraction of such industries implies in part overcoming
the infrastructure deficiencies which exist as constraints for small-scale



- 11 -
industrial development.  Measures to deal with major constraints outside the
responsibility of the municipalities, such as poor telecommunications, limited
water supply, transport difficulties and Limited access to credit are listed
in the Government's Fifth Plan. Several sectoral initiatives through projects
are either under implementation or in preparation by various Government
agencies, in many cases with Bank participation. In addition, for a number of
years, the Government has, with UNDP and Bank assistance, been exploring ways
and means to improve basic social services and municipal infrastructure in
regional cities and address the weaknesses of local administration which has
*      culminated in the proposed project.
33.       Institutional Developmc ..  The strategy for strengthening municipal
government in Thailand requires gradual inter-related changes in its institu-
tional framework. These would include key measures aimed at strengthening of
municipal management and technical capabilities, improving local government
revenues, and strengthening the ability of MOI to provide technical assistance
and to monitor performance. The most important measures in the long-term
process of municipal reform are to improve municipal planning, budgeting and
accounting procedures, and revenue collection efficiency and to strengthen
Government's ability to assist the municipalities develop their administra-
tive, fiscal and operational mechanisms.
Experience in Bank-supported Urban and Water Supply Projects
34.       The Bank's support of the urban and water supply sector began in the
mid-70s with attention to Bangkok's water supply, shelter and traffic needs.
Support has recently expanded to include regional projects in water supply and
shelter. Experience with these projects, four of which are still ongoing, has
been mixed. Physical achievements have generally been successful but institu-
tional gains or performances have been disappointing in three cases. The
first loan, to the Metropolitan Water Works Authority (Loan 1021, 1974), has
been implemented and was successful in improving water supplies in Bangkok
but, because of Government's inability to raise tariffs, it did not meet the
objective of transforming the Authority into a financially viable entity. The
subsequent Provincial Water Supply Project (Loan 1863, 1980) supports develop-
ment of potable water supplies in over 120 towns but is progressing slowly due
to inexperience in the newly instituted Provincial Waterworks Authority.
Lastly, institutional difficulties initially beset the Bangkok Traffic
Management Project (Loan 1638, 1979) but have now been largely resolved. This
project has implemented several low-cost measures for traffic management and
is helping to establish a capacity for urban transport planning in the
Ministry of Interior.
35.       The Bank's most promising contribution in the sector to date has
been in shelter. Through support of the National Housing Authority (NHA) the
Bank has assisted in the promotion of low-cost housing programs in Thailand.
Though the first NBA project (Loan 1556, 1978) experienced initial delays, it
completed during 1983 a pilot demonstration of sites and services and slum
improvement approaches in Bangkok. A second NHA project (Loan 1870, 1980)
reinforces the significant institution building and policy gains of the first
and includes sites in eight regional cities as well as Bangkok. Although
disbursements have been delayed, due initially to procurement delays and



- 12 -
subsequently to land acquisition difficulties, the project is now progress-
ing well and has, among other things, helped initiate a dialogue with the
Government on housing finance development. Future Bank lending in the sector
will continue to emphasize institution building and urban management.
Forthcoming projects are expected to deal with city-wide infrastructure
deficiencies in Bangkok, particularly drainage, and provide further support
for NHA as well as regional development.
Municipal Administration
36.       By law, Thailand's municipalities provide a prescribed range of
services dealing mainly with public order, health, education, welfare and
transportation. In addition, a number of other services may be provided at
the discretion of the municipality, including municipaL enterprises,
hospitals, vocational training, sports facilities and slum improvement, among
others. Some services typically provided by local governments in other
countries such as housing, water supply, electricity and police are mainly
operated by state enterprises or government departments. Municipal expendi-
ture patterns reflect local priorities as resources permit but are influenced
strongly by central government funding allocations. The structure of munici-
pal finance in Thailand - virtually unchanged in almost 30 years - precludes
local financial autonomy. The municipal fiscal base is extremely weak with
local resources being sufficient to finance only part of the recurring
costs. Because of central restrictions on the rate at which local taxes, fees
and charges can be levied, the proportion of local expenditure financed from
local sources has been declining. In the project cities, for example, about
30Z of municipal revenues has been, on average, derived from locally collected
property taxes and rentals, license fees and service charges. Improvements to
local revenues will begin to redress the reliance on central sources of
revenue, although these will emerge only gradually and municipalities must
continue for the foreseeable future to rely for the bulk of their income on
the system of national surcharge and shared taxes and various kinds of routine
and special grants. Because of their reliance on annual budgetary allocations
from Central Government, long and medium-term planning is currently not
practiced in the municipalities. Moreover, any attempt at fiscal planning
would suffer from the currently inadequate accounting procedures and weak
financial management experience.
37.       The evolution of a systematic program by MOI to assist development
of municipalities has been weak, although technical assistance is provided
routinely in local spatial planning matters and on an ad-hoc basis for
engineering services by MOI's Departments of Town and Country Planning and
Public Works (PWD), respectively.  In addition, the Department of Local
Administration (DOLA) has provided staff training for municipal personnel
through its Academy of Local Government Administration. However, the tradi-
tional functions of DOLA, the principal MOI department concerned with munici-
pal affairs, emphasize detailed control of municipal government with the
intention of preventing abuse and ensuring uniform behavior, thereby pre-
venting a focus on broader issues and stultifying innovation. Despite this
proscriptive environment, a strong movement has emerged during recent years
aimed at municipal regulatory reforms and a gradual restructuring of
relationships toward greater autonomy for the larger regional cities.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.       Development nf key regional cities is a long-standing goal of the
Government. Ten cities were identified for attention in the Government's
Fourth Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81), but little was accom-
plished. In 1979, a Bank urban sector mission visited Thailand to review
national policy issues affecting the development of regional cities. During
the study, agreement was reached with Government on the scope of the proposed
project and its focus on five cities located in the country's three poorest
regions - Chiang Mai in the Northern Region, Khon Kaen and Korat (also known
formally as Nakhon Ratchasima) in the Northeast, and Hat Yai and Songkhla in
the South. The selection of the cities also took into consideration their
economic diversity and growth potential, including relative administrative
abilities and planned complementary major infrastructure investments.
Prefeasibility studies financed by UNDP in 1980 identified major investments
that would overcome infrastructure deficiencies in the five cities, and a
regional cities development strategy incorporating the project was included in
the Government's Fifth Plan (1982-86). During 1982, as part of the Second
Shelter project, UNDP-financed feasibility studies were undertaken together
with complementary studies of municipal administration and finance improvement
and reform. The findings of the studies in respect of four of the cities
(investments in Hat Yai were not included) were finally approved by the
Government in January 1985.  Ongoing detailed engineering of the project is
being financed mainly by the ADAB, an agency of the Australian Government,
through its Bank cofinancing facility. Appraisal of the project took place in
May 1983 and negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from February 4 - 8,
1985. The Thai delegation was led by Mr. Charn Kanchanakpan, Deputy Permanent
Secretary, MOI, assisted by Mr. Nibhat Bhukkanasut, Deputy Director-General,
Fiscal Policy Office, MOF. Staff Appraisal Report No. 4673-Th, dated March 8,
1985, is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III
of this report provides supplementary project data.
Project Description
39.       The proposed project has been designed to support Government efforts
to stimulate economic development and regional growth in the three poorest of
Thailand's six regions by:  (a) improving basic infrastructure in the four
project cities; (b) strengthening municipal administration particularly in
finance and planning, and in implementation, operation and maintenance of
urban services; and Cc) strengthening the capacity of the MOI, specifically
its Departments of Local Administration and of Public Works, to assist
municipalities in carrying out their development programs.
40.       The proposed project, which would be the first Bank supported
project of its kind in Thailand includes: (a) municipal infrastructure
improvements ($18.4 million base cost, January 1985 prices) including exten-
sive road and drainage improvements in all cities; wastewater collection and
treatment facilities in Korat and Khon Kaen; solid waste dump sites, workshops
and equipment in Khon Kaen, Korat and Songkhla; new roads and bridges in



- 14 -
Chiang Mai and road maintenance equipment in Khon Kaen; Cb) provision of
revenue earning facilities, ($5.6 million) incLuding a combined fishing port
and commercial industrial zone in Songkhla; (c) slum improvement, ($1.2
million) concentrating primarily on access and environmental sanitation in
Chiang Mai, Korat and Songhkla; and (d) insticutional development, ($6.5 mil-
Lion) incLuding policy measures and technical assistance and training to the
municipalities, and the MOI to (i) strengthen municipal administration in the
areas of planning, programming, budgeting, accounting, financial management
and revenue improvement, (ii) assist in project implementation, operation and               q
maintenance, and (iii) prepare a future project and undertake associated
studies.
Implementation Arrangements
41.       The project will follow existing Government functional responsi-
bility lines whereby the municipalities will execute the project under the
overall guidance of the MOI, which will provide the necessary administrative
and technical support to the cities through DOLA and PWD respectively. The
project is expected to be implemented over a five-year period, October 1985 to
April, 1991. Detailed engineering and land acquisition is proceeding with the
aid of technical assistance funded by ADAB. Land acquisition will be
facilitated by a planned program of private property acquisition, including,
if necessary, expropriation and intergovernmental property transfers. A
satisfactory land acquisition plan was provided by DOLA. Overall project
supervision is the responsibility of the Project Steering Committee which,
through a Project Director, will direct and coordinate the work of various
subcommittees and the project management and implementation teams in DOLA, PWD
and the cities. DOLA will provide an overall project management unit which
will: (a) monitor overall project progress; (b) supervise and monitor the
program to strengthen municipal planning and financial management, including
the administration of related technical assistance; (c) coordinate with the
World Bank, including processing loan withdrawal applications; and (d) plan
for future regional cities deveLopment. In PWD, a technical assistance and
coordination unit will be established to fill the key role of providing the
necessary engineering and technical support to the cities for implementation
of project works. It will, with the assistance of consultants: (a) initiate,
supervise and monitor the acquisition of land required for the project;
(b) complete detailed engineering and procurement documentation; (c) supervise
procurement for and construction of all large and/or complex project works;
(d) provide technical assistance to municipalities for works to be handled by
them; (e) monitor and advise the cities in the operation and maintenance of
the project facilities; and (f) assist in the preparation of future regional
cities infrastructure improvement. Project implementation units will also be
established in each of the four cities (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). These units will be responsible for: (a) acquiring land needed
for the project; (b) tendering and supervising small-scale project works; (c)
monitoring project implementation and maintaining project accounts; (d) super-
vising operation and maintenance of project facilities; and (e) implementing
measures to improve municipal planning and financial management. Staffing
requirements for the new offices and implementation units will be met mainly
through transfers of suitably experienced staff from elsewhere in the agencies
and municipalities concerned. Consultants to assist with implementation have



- 15 -
been appointed. The large investments through the project will increase
operations and maintenace demands. By October 1, 1987, each city will prepare
an action program satisfactory to the Bank for the improvement of their
respective operations and maintenance functions for roads, drainage and
sanitation works (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). The munici-
palities will operate and maintain the project facilities except in the case
of the Songkhla Fishport. The new fishport will be operated and maintained by
the Government's Fish Marketing Organization or other appropriate operator
under a leasing arrangement, to be entered into by June 30, 1986, satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 3.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs
42.       The total project cost is estimated to be $50.9 million equivalent
of which the Eoreign exchange element (both direct and indirect) is estimated
at 35% or about $17.6 million. The taxes and duties element of total project
cost is estimated at $5.1 million. Project costs were estimated on the basis
of advanced preliminary engineering designs and include land acquisition, con-
struction works, technical assistance and physical and price contingencies.
All base cost estimates are expressed in January 1985 prices. In the absence
of completed detailed engineering designs, a physical contingency allowance of
15% has been made for all components except land acquisition (no allowance
provided) and technical assistance (5Z allowance provided), and amounts to
about 11% of base cost. Price contingencies for Local currency costs are
based on expected increases in construction costs of 8% in 1985, 7% in 1986,
and 6% per annum thereafter. The corresponding rates for foreign costs are 8Z
in 1985, 9% in 1986 to 1988, 7.5% in 1989 and 6.5% per annum thereafter.
Costs of consulting services total $7.6 million.
Financial Arrangements
43.       The proposed Bank loan would finance 60% of total project cost net
of taxes and duties. The cities would be responsible for about 25% of total
project cost; and the Central Government for about 11%, the latter being
granted to the cities. The remaining 10% of total project cost would be
provided as a grant from ADAB for part of the technical assistance program.
The Bank loan of $27.5 million would cover the total foreign exchange
requirements (including the front-end fee) and local costs of about $9.8
million equivalent, or about 54% of total project cost. The loan will be made
to the Kingdom of Thailand for a period of 20 years including five years of
grace at the standard variable interest rate. The loan proceeds would be
passed to the four municipalities on a grant basis. The Government would bear
the full cost of the loan, including foreign exchange risk and interest and
principal payments. It is expected that the cities would borrow about 60% of
their contributions from sources arranged by the Ministry of Finance and from
development funds managed by MOI, and provide about 40% from their respective
development budgets. The conclusion of project financing and implementation
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government and the project
municipalities is a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01
-of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
MunicipaL Finances
44.       The need to strengthen the administration and financial capacity of
the project cities was recognized by the Government at the onset as part of a
meaningful regional cities deveLopment program. To this end, two complemen-
tary studies, identified during the urban sector study (para. 38), were com-
missioned by MOI to develop a scrategy to increase revenues at the local leveL
and to design and assist in implementing improved planning, programming and
budgeting practices and accounting systems to provide a basis for improved
financiaL management.  The revenue strategy concentrated on measures within
the jurisdiction of local governments. The recommendations emphasized the
importance of improving the municipalities' efficiency in assessing and
collecting the main sources of local taxation. A coordinated program is now
being undertaken by MOI, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration (BMA), with financial support from the Bank's
first structural adjustment loan to Thailand (Ln. 2097-TH) to prepare work
manuals and provide a task force to assist in the development/updating of tax
maps and tax rolls as well as updating assessments for all of Thailand's 122
municipalities as well as for the BMA. This work has nearly been completed
and agreement was obtained at negotiations that the program would continue to
be carried out in consultation with the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Concurrently, legislation was passed which substantially
increased the ceilings for solid waste collection fees levied by municipali-
ties.  In addition, the Government hag caused each project municipality to
implement improved planning, budgeting and accounting systems which are now
essentially complete.
45.       Long-term strategy for local revenue improvement.  The measures
initiated and supported by the project and the structural adjustment loans are
a significant beginning to the long-term process of legislative and admini-
strative reform necessary for strengthening local government finances. An
appropriate strategy for the Bank's future involvement in this process would
be to continue to work with Government to develop initiatives and measures for
improvement in the administration and collection of local revenues. The broad
goals for further work in this area include: (a) continued rationalization
and reform of property taxation; (b) continued support for the improvement of
local financial management; (c) improved cost recovery for municipal services;
(d) a shift in emphasis from centrally administered to local sources of
finance, with grants based on relative local needs and tax collection effort;
and (e) a greater use of loan financing for capital works. The Bank's role in
supporting and encouraging the study and strengthening of the Municipal Devel-
opment Fund and the establishment of a National Valuation Authority, which
would be a focus for further improvement in the field of property taxation, is
expected to contribute in a positive way to these goals. Also, a proposed
future project with the SMA is expected to build upon the momentum gained in
this project in Thailand's largest urban area. In addition, further work is
currently being undertaken by government and its consultants to consider the
present system of distributing shared and surcharge taxes and grants to local
governments. A concomitant goal of Government is to support reform in all
,municipalities as well as other tiers of local government, which is an impor-
tant step toward increasing the share of urban development expenditures funded
from local sources. The financing plans of any subsequent regional cities
project are envisaged to reflect improvement aLong these lines.



- 17 -
Cost Recovery
46.       Currently, investment costs incurred by municipalities are primarily
financed from Central Covernment transfers (shares and surcharge taxes and
grants) and are not seen to be recovered from beneficiaries since overall
local tax and nontax revenues are insufficient to meet even normal recurring
expenditures, although varying degrees of cost recovery exist for some
individual municipal services. In this project, many components are
unsuitable for direct cost recovery because beneficiaries and the value of
individual benefits are, in general, impossible to identify; the imposition
and collection of benefit charges would not be a cost-effective way of raising
revenues; or because services are traditionally and appropriately provided by
the cities and funded from general revenues. This applies to drainage and
sanitation, roads and bridges, and maintenance equipment included in the
project, which together amount to about 68% of total investment costs.
Revenue-earning facilities in the project include a fishport and adjacent
commercial/industrial zone in Songkhla. For the Songkhla fishport and
adjacent commercial/industrial zone, which represents about 27% of total
investment cost, the full cost of the development would be recovered through
various lease payments to the municipality. Cost recovery for the slum
improvement components, which represent about 5% of total investment cost,
will be appropriately pursued on an indirect basis through improvement in
general revenues at the local level. Utility charges would provide for cost
recovery of water supply and electricity improvements in the slums in line
with levels elsewhere in the communities. The accounting improvements to be
undertaken through the project are expected to demonstrate to the cities the
level of cost recovery currently employed for all services and would provide
the basis for setting the various fees and user charges more in line with
actual costs incurred.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Two large civil works contracts for the construction of a fishport
and industrial zone in Songkhla costing $8.1 million and $2.7 million respec-
tively, would be procured on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. The balance of civil works construction, totalling about $23 million
would consist of about 40 minor works contracts of estimated size ranging from
2-50 million Baht ($70,000 to 1.9 million equivalent) each that are unlikely
to be of interest to foreign bidders and, would be procured following local
competitve bidding procedures (LCB) satisfactory to the Bank. Equipment,
including vehicles and furnishings, totalling about $0.8 million equivalent
would be grouped in about 15 bidding packages valued less than 4 million Baht
($150,000 equivalent) each and would be procured under LCB procedures satis-
factory to the Bank. Miscellaneous items of equipment, and materials under
contracts valued at 400,000 Baht ($14,800) or less and up to an aggregate of
10 million B ; ($370,000) would be procured following prudent shopping
procedures satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank. The proceeds of the
loan would be disbursed against: (a) 75% of expenditures for civil works; (b)
100% of the foreign cost of directly imported equipment; 100% of ex-factory
costs of locally manufactured equipment; and 65% for other locally procured
equipment; and (c) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance (not financed
from grant sources). In order to better ensure the timely provision of funds



- 18 -
to finance the capital costs of the project, the Government will establish a
special account (revolving fund) under the proposed project. This would allow
advance payments from the proposed Bank loan for that portion of the project
expenditures which would otherwise be financed directly by Government and
subsequently reimbursed by the Bank. In addition, disbursements against all
contracts valued less than $100,000 equivalent will be by statement of
expenditure (SOE) procedure. It is expected that loan disbursements will be
completed by March 31, 1991, about six months after completion of civil
works.  The disbursement period of six years is somewhat less than the country
performance of seven and a half years due to the advanced stage of the project
preparations and the experience expected to be gained in the early years by
the project organization.
ESTIMATED VALUE OF PROJECT PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS BY
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND PROCUREMENT PROCEDURE /a
(S million)
Procurement procedures
LCB                    Not
Expenditure                          Open    Prudent              appli-   Total
category                   ICB     bidding  shopping  Other/b   cable    value
Civil works               10.8        22.7      0.5                         34.0
(7.8)/c    (16.3)    (0.4)                       (24.5)
Equipment                              0.8                                   0.8
(0.7)                                (0.7)
Land and project                                                     8.4    8.4
administration                                                    (-)    (-)
Technical assistance:
Engineering services                                     5.8               5.8
(1.2)/d          (1.2)
Institutional
development                                             1.8               1.8
(l.l)/d          (1.1)
Totals        10.8         22.7      o.5       7.6        8.4   50.9
7.8        16.3     (0.4)      (2.3)     (:T   (27.5)
/a   Amounts shown include base costs (January 1985) and physical and price
contingencies.
/b   "Other" procurement procedures would apply to recruitment of consultants
in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
/c   Amounts in parentheses are estimated disbursements from loan proceeds.
7-  Loan proceeds to be reallocated for civil works component purposes in the
event that grant finance is obtained by RTG from external sources.



- 19 -
Accounts and Audits
48.       Separate project accounts would be produced by DOLA for each of the
project cities from information supplied by the cities. The project accounts
and the accounts of the four project cities would be audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank, with the audit reports submitted to the Bank
no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The audits will
be carried out by the National Audit Council in cooperation with DOLA's
Division of Local Finance, as part of their normal audit procedures.
Benefits and Risks
49.       The project would support the Government's regional development
strategy by providing an improved infrastructural base and strengthening muni-
cipal administration to support growing economic opportunities in four import-
ant regional cities. The project would provide improvements to infrastructure
and better environmental conditions affecting 450,000 people in the four
cities' municipal areas. The main benefits included in the economic analysis
are derived from: (a) drainage and waste disposal improvements which would
relieve severe seasonal flooding and local flash flooding and alleviate
pollution; (b) road and bridge improvements designed to improve traffic flows
on heavily travelled routes and which would reduce congestion and improve
access in the cities' central business districts, and to newly developed
areas; (c) a riverfront development component in Chiang Mai would integrate
much needed road, market, parking and recreation space improvements which
would reduce road congestion and improve environmental conditions in an
important commercial and tourism area of the city; (d) a combined fishport and
commercial/industrial zone development in Songkhla which would include: (i)
about 16 ha of commercial and industrial development, (ii) improved fish land-
ing and handling operations, and (iii) land released for redevelopment of
potentially valuable commercial and tourism areas of the city presently con-
strained by the existing, noisome fish landing facilities; and (f) slum
improvements which would improve walkways, drainage, solid waste collection
and water supply benefitting about 1750 households in relatively low-income
areas. The economic rate of return is estimated to be 25Z for drainage and
flood control components, 14X for solid waste disposal, 45% for roads, 33Z for
bridges, 182 for the Songkhla fishport and commercial/industrial zone, and 13%
for slum improvement. The weighted average economic rate of return for all
components is 30%. Principal quantifiable benefits were avoidance of property
damage and disruption to transportation, reduced vehicle operating costs and
travel time saved, new market and parking area values, and increased land and
rental values. The needs of the urban poor are addressed in part by all pro-
ject components, the poverty content of individual components ranging from 24-
66Z. The poverty impact of this project is considered to be significant based
upon both the relatively high incidence of poverty in the project cities and
the overall high poverty content of the respective project components. The
project would be expected to create approximately 8,000 man years of employ-
ment during the six year construction period. In addition, it is estimated
that up to 800 new, permanent jobs could be created through the operation and
maintenance of various components concerned.



- 20 -
50.       The main risks in the project lie in:  (a) an untested implementa-
tion capacity of the project cities in relation to the magnitude of the
project; and (b) the uncertainty of the cities' ability to achieve adequate
revenue improvements in order to repay project loans and provide for increased
recurrent expenditure budgets. In order to minimize the risk of inadequate
revenue improvements in the project cities, the MOI and MOF have established a
permanent unit to assist with implementation and monitoring of improvement
measures. In addition, preparations to address revenue improvements are well
advanced, and funding to undertake the necessary steps has already been
obtained. The principal implementation risk is related to land acquisition
which has delayed progress and increased costs in several previous Thailand
projects. To reduce this risk, substantial completion of negotiations for
land needed for commencing construction during the first year of the implemen-
tation program and initiation of expropriation proceedings has been
achieved. A further implementation risk is the managerial capability of the
project organization units to carry out a project larger and more complex
(from a logistical standpoint) than any undertaken by them previously. This
risk is considerably reduced in view of the specific organization and staffing
arrangements established by the MOI and the technical assistance already
obtained.
Environmental Impact
51.       The project is expected to have a substantial net positive environ-
mental impact. The municipal infrastructure and the municipal revenue-earning
services are designed specifically to improve environmental conditions, espe-
ciafly improved water quality and reduced disease risks in the project
cities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. In addi-
tion to the special conditions listed in Section III of Annex III, the
conclusion of project financing and implementation arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, between the Government and the municipalities of Chiang Mai,
Khon Kaen, Nakhon Ratchasima and Songkhla (para. 42) would be additional
conditions of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 4, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-22 -                                             x
Page 1 of 5
ma                    (EDT361  NUNAI) lb
ipod       1g7ct uunuL               Al&cnc           s-sc&u
ARBA (miniM  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    MMR. U)VAU
TOTAL                             514.0      514.0       314.0
AIClAULTWAL                       121.1      141.2     128.1
ap  U  WMvC  (S)                     100.0 2O30.0          790.0             1091.2             2106.6
rNNO muONOSIuI  "a cairm
mtlcmItS Or OIL . l IIIRUI)        44.0      150.0      264.0              567.3              95.5
1ooLAnI      An  iTZAL sTAIIUC
POiULATIlO.KID.uAR (TWOUSANDS)  2467.0    36370.0    41331.0
UU.3 VOP.UTIOM (Z OF TOTAL)        IZ-5       13.2       16.4               34.7               44.5
POPULATION iRBCTIONI
iOPULATIOIe fI VW  2000 (XeLL)                          47.9
STATIONARY POPUIATAON tNlL)                            111.3
FOPULATION NONIZN                                        1..
POPULATION D11SITT
PM sq. IN.                       52.3       70.1        92.4              241.9               35.7
MR sQ. 1l. Aai. A   bUD         209.6      257.7      255.2              1735.1              92.4
POMATIOII ACe SUbCE CZ)
0-14 IRS                        ".7        44.2        40.4               39.0               39.9
15-64 13.                        52.6       50.3        56.3              57.4                54.0
65 AID ARVe                       2.7        3.0         3.1                3.3                4.1
POPULAflON cavm  lRaY  (1)
TOtLL                             2.8        3.0         2.4                Z.3                Z.4
URBAN                             4.6        3.6         4.3                4.3               3.4
CRUDE SIXTH RAe (PM TX)            43.9       3B.5       26.0                30.1               31.3
CRIUID DEAtI RITE (PER 1BO0)       14.7       10.4        7.6                9.5                8.1
CRSS REPRODUCTION 14T               3.2        2.7         1.9                2.0                2.0
PAN!Y PLrING
ACCETOS. ANNUL  au3s)              . *     202.9 /e  1063.3
USERS (t 2    MARRIELD VU@)        ..       13.0        39.0               52.7               40.;
FWOD AM WMXTru
10  OF POOD Pne. PU CAPrrA
(1969-71-100)                      92.0      100.0      133.0               123.0              114.3
FEZ CAPITA SUMY o
CALORES (Z0O 0E    lrs)         100.0      103.0       105.0              114.4              110.6
WOTEZIS (031 PEt DU)             45.0       50.0       47.0               57.0               67.3
OF WHICKI A*MNL AMD PULSE      11.0       15.0        15.0 /d            14.1               34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DATH RATe         13.3        7.9        4.0                7.2                5.7
MtALItE
LIMe ExECT. AT BUM   ZEARS)        52.3       58.2       62.7                60.4              64.7
IFANTr 211!T. RITZ (PM TI0IS)     103.0       74.6       51.4               66.3               60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WAUR (lie?)
TOAL                               ..       17.0        22.0               37.0               65.4
mm"3I                              ..       60.0        49.0 0             54.8              78.1
IL3                                .        10.0        12.0 7e'           26.4               44.2
ACC5SS TO MERETA DISPOSAL
(t OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       17.0        40.0 /1f           41.3              52.9
UR1A                               ..       65.0        58.0 IE           47.4               67.0
RUAL                               ..        8.0        36.0 7!           33.3               24.5
POPMAIXEOI PER PUICIA            7900.0     8430.0      7100.0/            7749.4            1917.7
POP. PrR NURsxNG PzRs            4830-0 /h  7030.0      2400.0             240.4              815.8
POP. PER NOSPrAL BED
TOrAL                          1380.0      890.0      820.0 I            1044.2              367.2
UIUAl                           260.0 lh   180.0      530.0 76 451.2                        411.5
RURAL                         21420.0 71 3 1360.0     1.230.0             594.6             2636.3
ASUHSSIONS PER 3   A BED             ..       31.0       44.8 Ia            27.0               27.3
AVERACK SIZE 07 BDUSEOWD
rTa                               5.5 /b     5.8         5.5 /a
UREAN                             5.3 7W     5.8         5.5 s7e
RUA                               5.67       5.8         5.5                 ..
AVERAGE 30. Of NBSONS/R0ou
TOTAL                              ..         ..         2.4/.
URN                                ..         ..         2.27..
RURAL                              ..         ..         2.47..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF VAEMLIC)
TOTL                                        15.9
*.. URBl                           ..       85..
,-   ~     ~    RRL                                ..         9.0         .                   ..



ANNEX I
-23-                                               Page 2 of 5
1-6dk       197?   38!DSAU             n  a,               LALAn IIKCA & CIA
IrN.Ma    TL                        6.0         63.0        p6.0                102.0                105.4
WE                      "s0          66.0         M0                 101.9                101.3
nm                      79.0         79.0        93.0                 96.2                106.3
UECOUUTI TOML                       13.0        17.0        29.0                 46.0                 43.2
NMIl                     1.0         20.0 a0.0                        4B.7                 42.3
1 1                     ]LO:10.0     13.0        27.0                 43.1                 44.5
VOCATOUL CZ OF IEOUMX)               19.1        22.3         13.5                17.5                 33.0
1PL-TEum  U"Tio
FIliAr                              36.0        35.0        24.0                 31.S                 30.1
iscKolt                             20.0        10.0        23.0 2d 23.5                              10.0
DLT LIAC  LAT  CI)                    67.7        76.6        6.o                  72.9                 79.3
?AS16U10u CMIIOANP                     1.8         5.1         6.35                IJ.I                 40.0
3*3100  NWRES/U        3 Ml            6.1        76.3       127.2                113.6               225.6
TV WR        O    nD MI                2.2         6.6         17.4                30.1                OT.2
=RM(-M  Comm
NU3PI   c.M!          A
3  13D00*1 3O!UTIh                  10.6        23.3        42.8                 5 33.9               63.5
CINDU AUYL A! A             T           ..         0.4 1         *.                 3.4                  2.6
TOAL L0  Vo          0)            13772.0     16956.0     23356.0
PSSA ('UNC )                        4.4         44.8        43.8                 33.5                 23.2
AMMT=g CICUU!)                      64.0        60.0         76.0                52.2                 31.5
110061! (UNCU)                       4.0         6.0         9.0                 17.9                 23.9
PAOTIZPDZIO  NAM  (fluUT)44                                    6.
TOTAL                               31.3         3.6         ".I                 3B.7                 32.2
ASZ                                 32.7        49.3         31.9                50.9                 49.3
FUIMIS                              4.6         43.9        44.3                 26.6                 15.2
coom=  D            3 0_               0.9         1.1         0.9                  1.1                  1.4
ror fuTn rllco
93303610 ITIAT 
NICUIT 5S30 OfNouZUOI3              21.8 l      23.0        23.0 A               22.2
SCUll 200 o O  UO-I                 50.9 7      49.7        49. 7;               48.0
I.33ST 201 of   u      S.           Z 6.2   60.1             5.6 7                6.4.
U016 403 OF 900.                    14.9 7      13.3         15.2 a7;            15.5
NSTDIATA AISOLDI WOWS!! INC011
LEVEL (US$ 131 CAPIT)
USNAN                                 ..          ..        159.0 h             U8.6                2U.2
RAL                                   ..          ..       106.0 7              1.0                 164.0
ESTDIA?I  331*219  IOURM!  1300
Ua                                    ..          ..       115.0 /k             177.9               522.8
3.03*1.                               ..          ..       110.0 7              164.6               372.4
3511*11  90. 1.0  AM I-Hox
PO91  INCaS LVEN (CE
0                                     ..          ..         15.0 /k             23.4
"                                     ..          ..        34.0 7W[             37.7
MT AVAZIANL
-O AP.UC*31
M O T E S
/a   Te grosp *eraps for eakh ldIcator are PMpolatae-aeLjghtid ae tb.tic 21a,..  Courage of countries awns the
irACadtor deend Da _   velleblUty of data and IS nt unifox.
lb   Unlea   otberule  eted. 'Data for 9' refec to any year bet_ee  1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; an  data for 'Mot lacet btlate' between 1960 ad 1962.
/c  CGovernmt plr_  onl:  /d 1977;    1 1974; If 1975;  LL 1979; Ih 1962: A  1972;  /i 1968;  k 1978.
.  1984



4M 1 4331 1-     4 je -% 333 -  344             l 43ec .14.3   BP -nccIapd
3911  3e433p iSdi       p 'i43*3344   ..cAtdne *eWe "-ps .cbceee..43
a- 3cPa1 elcla PS Ce  P3*1  13333  I" %9e O453                  44--P   3336Pi
(318  41-443 ioa3ee4 A 35=      3435  133313ON          94 *4taPa,   ci 443
..3w Ogg -da3  ow   .fta 43W.  P.....3*ep44
.cte   e.3*4*4i      cd   i.e   .4  J  13-      3e.Se..- eqt*-~
WO&I -W                                                     so.~~~~~~~~~~33334  415 4433  31  P4 -34.343i  33431  -_  (fmes'
PPI-W-111 --a r- PT=   -1-                                                   il_=84   a   eq  as.p4.s4e4..               mes  eq4    .n          .
-4 *..eIng44  a.;e3441   *44   c.O.cs-33 .4 18e14
W on-n j- .-  _411ol -0W    354   j .1.P  e431    seel 4-  c3-p;  ic   ccp
.1 I-M  -W    -4.aw fta j. --R 1-alaw          --s    1161 p- PdG   10161  '-339 3633 p43 0101.  35"  IlillS
e3366c. .13  ~9u1.. 0  e~3)  eiecj.44 Ic 4 .4e  -  e.143,te    nsa  elI    e                                   l. P-,,PaWZ3jDi_ l35IlE
e;dc  e4Sce.                       9-lu-e   -.1   8..aco l   xu.q_oP                                            -.P3e5p ea   sn I a. 33613 se n vhl ecdg 'eAce  r'P c-es  a
- 5331"  e410 -(41.a    348335)50   343134-   31rt  cc 343313odosi  P45443                4  P%3.1~ era in 34  3eodd"   - (p "I44      3.- 03  434  (93""  t)  s"
P_5533         A. Pfl' P9olc4     c136  3  33    e                                                  gg.lcic4Spe   p- 4..a ec1-  1- - vK pee   " ".n   34    *5`scI  43 *.I 3.
- (311 53  e.,c  - 3c3..-  eni3)3c cemel *ecce  4c5c4A.304344                           iof P    ,33 Ap3  016   SSd-391  3*44 -v4  p414 -P11
'nn~  cqe.4cp.4ca I,. pccadeoe  41 pv4               411.,. -4 peceid V 'pA% 4ol14 as.  -Ii3aaioaW.i  .msu  mo-o 5
P 3.-a eV a-lad p-   gz                Pd oz               31441p4                      3.e- 'cicisi 3440 p    41 3P_41d  UN  'AM p34  Pc'e            e
S %Mpli -t P-3-ft - fM% 1-  N Z-A M ., P.                             --413 (443  5308 3-3P 413*3  -   cice-eld 34444 53T-31535 m     -.ece3
*s33eqee.41              f-leec_P *31  91*314    . pt 94113533 nud en j. -,P     c,jp .- peec
35 ReeS 43   acel pe__.4 13  d.3 e..,e.  *cecsd    ce4cl  'iecs                       A13   ..c     ._ 3  ..4 "33 Pe4m1sIid.2 len  'lpi    %atsoq  wa c      .n
5 i  Pwi   At 30444,  (p4   0sn  34.3804   ie    3.  c.i441                              c       :.-14  jc4444   33  - jee               au444 do 44.3-c  4434 -   .34(3
- _     I-T.-  -3    lWi-T..  PJ le% flat                                      34ep1 -P33 poc 3115-3531 E     p-  -1c343g 3,
*                                                       '(fl.41 ~ godtrsP  ,n, -pch d   -" ",P I3",,3 5445tq99was*'0.  dPM   mi'Seeedeo               33,p  n54.d  -elipdc- Il 34-  41353333
14-3      13-da so3 1pc*    j. *39 a .ciefi     P3314 -t-IinA 5314ZSi ia41300f                   "Id.      *5*3.   m;itsqScp33   ved   .epecae
43 43135 14141               n   5e4 IMP    Ps ae   ee-J .443 nm l4ic**                     44,5- .p*4e3  - j.1mos,  .1441  . e-n....) eee.-ft . P   .---.
ft"n  to  P31.- D45434  933 -30  (4 v-   J.3*34  4333.-d3    333-13                         Pa'3339.PPMl.ga-34  -                                                  -
'A""          ,3  "                    (33P43*ss =     61 -lu,  3.4331*1451   334    eeai   44
Poll*s s 3eeee  3133 30l3  -W Scecp         meg- noo.   - m33u In..-. gld *- eo"ncw4 ce331i3   *leee 1.e  ~e
fewi Sleqeem u.sc  1 305e3*c ITO- 33341334                       -        i                      3344483 Ml 3d33 - I333-1 d..-13I            -ol3c .. .3s. h.l4_,jppjj
p0  0. .3**4m-   cjle. 43  35341 31=133                                                        t-- Is 0. PPs124o jAtcs  AS
-was   alve mu  IPot 3.-oadds,31 As    ve. .Pc - 3134 3P 3.414e3, -WOW                4 3*ne   4.c.   13        is    ~
43 4~~3.441 31-3'P 53        s-I '4*.4a1 'i-M~*   33.fJ4d                                                      ____________________
S133 Meit MS03 stpoen 3                .4--"-3 .4piJ*-1 jd                                                                    '.eP                            4 ie
33 34p014 143  l3.4c334 36 -310544   4                                          4&43d,p334                 =1139I e-5cU
en nel. cI3qds.       q S. Lee cacin  Wce  "a1 eve ticcue SI    3-a                            -VP l 44p03a   P444311  3443 3443-133W3F14II5
.1aaJ. 3l.331344 poi        ".qi; eec Masq44. 3se14 .4 .sen t0e                             .3.     el.q4ai3439-  eIt-(36c   c34.*   .  3
da33e   " 34333, IeeciLe  P~ -Pnt(c    031   -lq.*f4P3-l419.                                                     *13413  p43-   9(33-449   3  43330 M.33*P
p0  4443141 '.44433p0 444t80 3.444  3          443.4A-3114-4tMPPa"q                                   ,1          '1gP Z.   30I '33  '        Ot 3; OS
s  O, ifto-od - 1-3.9                                                  APPA~~~~~433143334143 P(13  33.33 hP344 -  313.14-,5411p393
om4 P313     313334 -a    33 -at-"          -Ln 4 -      3331I =*143..v3IVal33ee4G 'M3I 504 p433
.en;4e;43  Cep0ee  1~  33.43444  ecn  Ttpa-             ~           P 1348.313  MI 301.3-3n1131  43b  Bad. s3111313d  4333340.   1
-33314 -41-4           __________:______-_____34eA    14  434  c33444                                                      c  35433(4444 *=ieecee  Asees
3)3334444334333433   -                            4*-33      3                        1   53)1   3peacT*3443  e 3i3 vc 5u 33.334.
1,valsoss    "wa  P -    '-mro1o  d   - 13543d.i                 T       44 T   *1."  9333331333 3343 -453p1i33.  URI 414341ft-s  '43
1      0 se11n3e  1  443ml434  383sie.4  p334144333,334444  e wa"l. .si 033341.344    BP1 -II-e.                                            P.ec3.e   cne 3)44m4
4.3c.3  143  4    343*e33339  3e44.3444   4430333   0  3313_                                           03  3  133*a   3.43   ls   ee   33 I3la "3
.e334 t4431  p    14333 3.144 j3e   *14433PM     sa  -33   3si 3  3133                  *343445a 3131a- aw . 3334   3014 h  331-343 .%43-od             3!*qa-1
Ismi"' ml some 9    v-sivolOa unp-w  z- woi- Paus4-33 eceq Iona   .   t.Ile  0.3-3 43    sea34                     .. 4*419*casj44 .3 B.." PO
MaPoo. ;Polo-Po  - .4e443   0134   431p                 43   34333 44.                  *411          .41413d_ 33 3313. p.141313311  333.31433-411
q-j                            1-411~~~~~~~'31342 p334318                       nIqi 3   3.4.3e1* llAN               W.5 31ce ew     434(l4*c3
413pe143i44  333314.33  p0344303334   '*34;43331  0.5343                         1333.           a    "133314   A33  ".4441 P-  S11u   J.433333
34313e3e.304aseII   0  4.p 3 3  013c   3443fin                        Z.-3 Ld v43  *  eipc.c  393043313
len  .331en 33131 ~~~~~'341l3   3333e - 0.4.44.4431Jcc  34 13was3433BS-o4,431317
44    3.433533443 a~~~~~~ p341e30P"3to413                              '333SIPA36  A943 1PA. 3I33  034   343.03 043
P-      U.Mm.L~~~*"3333.3  3349". 43 4433. 41333   4911414 w3  3.,13A4.3 1344A14330  333 -ml                                   3 q.3333i333   .3413
p0 31i493e4  iq4..ei 3          -.435 . 4 I.4 .   - csiod395   4433 d4. A3.4       olees.. - W.14." amsm 5134  %e5f44.e.menl-me                                 c
S43e s      4343usIaie  t4433*3.3d,n303                              43.33103   *33134343331   310efp                                                  a
'33c3e3 33434c  -  4. -4 -14 so *344.   (4es I.musA m.le,s.I...                                                                                    .eip 3m3  P ped313
p0  .35.33 *ie  *eeeas                      '44au" P1*i39 Su  ti-aw               -ml    S1-133 313 03133345 1. 3  dslii 3       -3.  0 31e'.c*e3_ "             P
33333443*4 p  '3~~~~4~~~.ri   C3  3j44 ~13434330.4*                                    d1*10e --o    -."i1
3.3     -P4m lase    54PM 34  434  31 ,3e as elf aiN  133*5414  436333916 3w                   MOM-3 1m0304  334foW  .n1et    Joe6 343  4n0  lsa
we 3 POI.I*-4 431343e   l    I . 4 ....4w43440    1343  5   m  ihe                                    .qe43p   ed           ...        333333  --w      fi  P"i 03,1368 1
c3 1480  443411S  '31  339 cM '*eneqs0333334 l 3ow        j   .3333313p pcme cuSp "I.s .4M43c ""A 3333ft                 e  SO  363smil   - 8"0344  314d1. 40
A3enie me 6o3ur3 43341   eao                 4  41  93603    44331,1  34311". 3333413 946l933 mo p43.33  33163333*   en-4-11                    334 41-31 433.4      03P
lmilimm    P&Dqvin ~       ~            ~           141333113383UhISi
    jo     sSuj                 -.s   ..Ilp                                                             01   "M   011   PM    PI1104t
mumO=ayPsaumww



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
-25-
Popuaatlon    I *49,00 (old-lo. tmemmnda)
G-  per cPitaZI  Ulqlo (1tu2)
TNAte   - zswmwC  tDtCcaeU
Seuat
(mus mLult  at                                                                           nags of G
current Prtce)    rcee_  nu  tncre  tO (et cmsef   flqereo                at    e: :rteeot at  ear         te
IldIaeroer                                      peI-i1 11970-7,  197          ne        , 1    1Wo   la Iss wo   1ss
nniLACCOUWNT
Groan doeatic product           36.71?           3.4       0.3       7.0       5.7         5.4       200.2     100.0    100.0    1920.0    100.0
3trtculturu                    3.204           5.5       5.i       1.2       1.0         2.9        Me        zaa.      31.3     26.2       20.3
trAfetl 10.303                                1         1.1  7.3  12.       5.4         0.1        13.7      25.3      24.3     27.5      23.0
geruica                       13.230           9.0       7.1       7.9       6.9         4.0        42.5      ".        43.?     40.3      51.7
Cona ti@n                       23.439           7.3       7.n       7.1       4.1         5.3        35.7      73.7      79.3      73.3      73.1
Gross inweenut                   .7 25          15.3       3.3       4.2       2.1         1.3        13.7      26.2      25.4      27.9      22.9
nperte .t Golla                  9.104          10.5       3.0      13.4      10.2         5.1        17.4      10.7      19.1     25.0       24.2
Ipoert of GtPS                   9.20           13.9       3.7      10.3       1.3        4.7         10.9      21.3     23.7      31.1      27.2
Gron national mleula             6.723          13.7       4.1       1.5       2.9         7.4        14.1      21.5      20.7      20.7     12.1
lpoe ttlee ot
_rheab  iem tred    )    c t currn t prtea l
1900    1970   1975   18    29031W    mori,
annuaL teat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  t  m
cmTWA TLO
rhaedtea  experts                0.335           5.3       9.0      14.4       4.4         0.2      100.0  1oo.0  200.0  100.0  200.0   100.0
Prtirm                         4.049           4.2       0.6      10.0       0.2         3.7      97.3 5   0.5   77.3   60.2   50.9        50.3
tate cturee                    2.186          29.2      20.9      25.1       3.4         9.2        2.2    19.5   22.7   29.8 3   4.1      49.7
Eurchemdiue Laorta               5.406          11.5       1.3      10.3       1.2         4.6      100.0  I10.0  100.0  200.0  1IW.o.  1OO.0
Peed                             24S           4.3      -2.7      11.9       5.'s        ..5.      9.0      SO4    4.*   3.4  . 3.2         3.4
Parol,e_:                      2.042          12.3       s:o       3.7     -4.7          1.6       10.9    3.3  .22.1    31.4   21.3    19.4
tchieery 4 equlpent            2.41Z         16.1       5.9       7.4       3.5         5.3       25.3   36.1    35.8   23.5   35.2        35.3
Other                          1.101          10.1       1.0       9.3       4.7         4.9       54.2   09.7   37.7   41.7   40.3    42.2
195         19763       197?       1973        197w        1q30        IMt         1"2         1,Ulu
iw--efftetr                                  100.0       103.3       122.1       121.3       136.9       19.3        172.1      177.9       134.3
"chamge rate                                  20.4        20.4        20.4       20.3        20.3        20.5        21.12       22.0        23.0
zPort prIce tia                              100.0        97.3        99.4       107.4       123.3       151.7      256.2       145.2       147.3
tmert prtce tisa                             100.0      105.5        113.4       122.3      11.4        271.0       207.5       212.7       200.3
Toerm of tra   ade                           100.0        92.2        37.6        37.3       90.8        30.4        75.3        43.1        73.4
_       190     970            1975             1960           I9331
tCEPc n!AmI /cc
Current rafenu                                     13.4            13.3            12.2            14.0             16.9
Current *eendLturs                                 10.6            12.6           I.6             23.S             15.0
Surplu (*) or 4a tcit (-I                          43.0           .1.2             4S1.6           M3.              -0.1
Captcal ewentturm                                   4.3             5.3             3S              1 39             3.9
Foreign fItnacing                                  0.2              0.1             D.1             0. Z      
r                                                          18tO-70            19?0-75            1975-30            1980-85b             19"5-0Tb
0113R INfDICATORS
CNP growth rate (2R)                                                   6 .2               6.9                 5.4                  5.1
CW per capita grait, rate (Z)                       5.2                1.4                4.4                 3.5                  0.2
icon                                               2.3                 4.0               1.4                 4.2                  4.1
brsginei eowiog  rate                               0.29               0.23              0.21                0.10                 0.29
tuport elasticlty                                   1.7                0.6               1.3                   . 2                0.9
/a Preilatmery.
lb Projected.
Ie   antrel goverment only.
ebtuary 28. 1985



ANNEX I
-26 -                                                     Page 5 of 5
coital  mmao  (tw4ae)
TULAS -  L1A3  of RR EMA 639M  CAPTM. AL                 6 OM
in                 r     p at cer t  rices)
Inicator                                   2970    1676    1977    1976 294   79f I912                                      TM 293  ll  f9iU   i          nir'b 'nu-
6*.40 OF Pawmn                                                                                                                                                               .
Af e off ued. sed  eefactoer
services                               1.0    2,690   4.029   6.076   6.45    6.19         6,971    9,167    9.0e       10.221   11.162   1 2.39   12.646 *  2.1579
Of AIthl: trchalee f.o.b.                u66  2i,ii    3,63*   4.035  53234   6.419    G.=&    6.635    6.30a    7.320    7.967    9.064   20.762   24.637
I rte  f Steed  andS mafacter
services                             -3.430  -32.92  -5,0611  -3.694  -0,123  -9.490  -LO.713   -9,126   -11.11?  -11.271  -12.SU   -12.676  -14.80L -21 622
Of   hlkk    irch.diee fo.b.        -3.L46  -3.245  -4,247  -4,913  -6.787  -9,352    8.930   -9,406  -L0.167  -10.308  -30.510  -11.733  -31.192  -19, 701 ,
et fEter teem from  abred                   23     -62      -"     -266    .45    -410         49   -*1,d7   -1.033   -1.234   -1.533   -1.717   -1,.90    -2,168
Nt transfer.                                49      23       40       40      50      116      122       163       27        17l      t 170     170       370      Ila
Currun  acnemt b*Lame                     -250    -440  -1.097  -1.133  -2.086  -2.222   -2.106   -1.006   -2,973   -2.132   -t.909   -L.653   -19,96   -2.442
Ptivate dircat i^emtment                    43      79      106              S5       161      292       169       346.     407       296       104      i1]      3l2
1LT Leas (net)                             32      4m       Ia      670    .416  3I,6"s    1,*63        .3227    1.236    1.642    1.922    1.572    2,211   2,51s
Official                                  23     109      161     290      46      569       621       "60       861      123       777       76       732       377
privae /a                                 30     139      163     360      930   3.096    1.010        647       411      91      1,169    I.O4      1.639    1.696
Oter   pttSl /b                                     219     740      F62   1.160       -s    1.ni        no        448        35     -307      -30?     -369       -'2
Chamg  In re -
(- Indicac   Increasea                    I2     -96      -93    -349    -343       36      -601      -130       61l     -331      -102     -216      -169    -_34
nteratiel rer0g                                    t.590   1.817   2.333   1.t34    3.063    2.874    2.652    2.33S    2.846    2.968        1.206    1.533     4,714
aer_e ase ,the ofe fort                      6        5       4        s       3        4         1         2                  I 3                1         3        2
numia CWtTaL AD DIT
Gers  Disbaereemen
Coceelesl Loas                            11      52       76      121    242      230       221       216       250      144       423       511      321       673
DAC                                    11       43       30      46      176     176       369       132      206       267       372      All       *u        t67
i*SI                                    -        7       9        3        6       5        22l       39       3         12        9         6         4         I
Other                                  O-        -       1       62       h0      69        13        46        27       65        61        41       L6         I
oencoeaemioLt" oe s                      161     *67      36S   133 12   1.16   2.13       2.026    1.910    2.031    2.390    2."7    2.60          3.401    3.593
Otit cial aespt cedIts                   I       -       12       -        -        3       s0        95      226      l37        I35      362       174       Z25
tE                                     19       43      63      102      329     163       269       370      621       267      218       245       364       24
Otchr wattilatereL                       2       4       33      46       I       63        64       302     ltoo        93      '11-   16           L2        20z
' . Private publicly garanteed                17     101      106     411      342     s66       805       653       322       U39      527       133      393       711
Ivuce 'neguerateed                    143      277     349      372      79    1.027       790       Ge6      966    1.395    1.751    1.99    2119    3,60
TotaL green dlnberess*ta                 299     319      662   1.6    2.036   2,3U4    2.251    2.123    2,23    7.S6             3.40    323    3,912    3,671
nterual tebt Cf dad term)
PIcebt eutatnelde  and
dtalree                                 326     623   11139   1.620   2.6Z2   4, 26    3,149    6.126    7,003    6,044    ,9*77    9.915  10,592   13.069
ifiecla                               291      672      693  L1234   1.671   2.315    2,43    3,43so    4,236         4."3    3.770    6.356    7,310    9,134
Private                                 37     LS1      224     566   1.161  13,13    2.126    2,687    2,733    3.031    3,207    3.393    2.362    4,762
Private .eA_ar en d debt
eetetsdti   and dlbaurned             182      765      860     931   1,243  13703    2,09         2,296    2,645    3.234    4.243   53.41     .411   1O0,I
Total debt ou tetnedig ed
dLsbaresd                              710   3.6W    2,999   2.711   4,073   1,831    7.266    6,434    9.637   32.            2 13.220   13.092   IZ32n3   24.367
-ldtabersed debt                        16      U40   1.364   I.m99   2.361   3,006    3.091    3.S92    36438   3.123    1.144    3.037    2.966    1.36
Det Servien
S-c-ST -sarvi-s,paetc                    162     376      642     632      62   2.224    3.323   12,493         ,768    2.,62    2,443    2.43    3.049   S3,41
cateceve                               26      107      126     396      222     301       686       697      .41       369    3,023    1.192    3.349    1,9 4
Paimosen an 2 experts of goods
55d  oemfactor servtees               14.4    10.0    11.0      6.3    16.9    1133.      15.6      13.9      39.2     2e. 7     23.1      2n,A      20.4     23.1
Avrage tetaret Fate on Ik  Les
(II /eA8 6                                         7.9      '.0r    6 .9     7.6      ,       30. 12      . 2      4n    1LI.]       1.0       1q.0      9.6      In.2
otfeliai                                InS      7.       4.      3, 56    3,6     .5.       7.        6,^7     9,3         -         -         _         _ -      _
wtv c                         5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  7.  . .    I O.S    1111     11 .0         I.w       S
Priv"at                                 60       73       6.,     8.9    30.5    3.8.    31.9 3.4 9nh           1.6         -                              
A"ve       Imturity an Nw lAsna
(yeare) IC                               136.     17.1    16.5    17.1    17.0    163.        16.7      19.1      2n.1     11.9      12.4      12.4      12.1     11.2
Offt&T                                  MA,19.  20.6    29.6    23.1    22.6    21.1        22.6      21.6      22.3        -         -         -         -        -
Privet1 22.2                                     7,3      7.9     9.6    In31      6.6       6.1      11.4      3n.7        -         -         -        -         -
NalWage ore (Z)
IRa W1:7toolOOD               22.ft 5   4      37.1    35.9    11.    11 3.4       22.n     1.9       17.1      3, 7     l.0n      15.4      96,7     39.9
IUID dlebureemts/total groem
dLebureents                           9.S      6.1   ji*n        4,       ..        1     I1.n      1 .s      16.       4* n      .i       I .,       R.m      &.n
D26D debt aervte-ltotal debt
service                              11. 1      .A.    I11      ^4       4.6      ..S      4,9       3,1 e.9           I-1.l     I'       i         31.9 2M.'
IDA DO/total DOD                          -      0.7      1.0     l.9      n.07    ^.4       0.7       nD.       .        n. 0,6    ..  n..            '.1       n S
ID5 dlebureesteltocal groam
disbursmnts                             -      1.2      1.1     0.4      0.2     0.2       0.9       0.9      0.6       0.6       n.3      11.2      0.9       0.0
IDA debt ervice/total debt
service                                 -      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.2       0.0      0.0       0.n       0.0      o.n       0.0       0.0
Sn   of debt outatandtna at end  f 1961
Iturity atructura of debt ontstandig
Principal due witli.s 5 yeere                                                                       60.7
Principal tdn. tthtn 10 ye"ar                                                                       96.2
Interat etrture of debt outetanidg
intcrne  de vitfhin tirnt year                                                                        *e
Ie to chnge La clasifiatlo. pro"jected data for "privaste 1LT leant ioCldi  u_ of tbh  Cetepry "ocber capltet."
0ther capital       elsces _et s-ea of       tfuaja ad not floe of et onft-te  capital.
7   fliatarical data do not Include 0guagntoe  private debt.
Peborcy 25. 1963



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
- 27 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount ($ million)
Loan or                                                             less cancellations
credit                                                         Bank         IDA     Undis-
number   Year            Borrower             Purpose                               bursed
Forty-six loans and three credits fully disbursed           1,425.35       31.74
1149     1975  Kingdom of Thailand          Irrigation         95.00         -       13.84
1468     1977  Kingdom of Thailand          Irrigation         55.00         -        8.26
767     1978  Kingdom of Thailand          Population                    33.10 /h   5.18
1620     1978  Telephone Organization       Telecom.           90.00         -       13.48
of Thailand
1630     1978  Kingdom of Thailand          Irrigation         17.50         -        6.29
1638     1979  Kingdom of ThaiLand          Urban Trans.       16.00         -       10.27
1690     1979  Electricity Generating       Power              69.00        -        18.39
Authority of Thailand
913     1979  Kingdom of Thailand          Education            -        35.00       8.74
929     1979  Kingdom of Thailand          Agriculture          -        25.00      13.98
1752     1979  Kingdom of Thailand          Ag. Extension      40.00        -        17.46
1770     1980  Electricity Generating       Power              80.00        -         0.18
Authority of Thailand
1787     1980  Kingdom of Thailand          Irrigation         80.00         -       57.30
1816     1980  Kingdom of Thailand          Ag. Credit         19.00         -        1.25
1852     1980  Electricity Generating       Power              72.00         -       14.93
Authority of Thailand
1863     1980  Provincial Waterworks        Water Supply       40.00         -       33.02
Authority
1870     1980  Kingdom of Thailand          Housing            29.00         -       18.02
1871     1980  Provincial Electricity       Rural Electri-    75.00          -       39.87
Authority                   fication
1889     1980  Kingdom of Thailand          Inland Waterways  53.00          -       42.44
1918     1980  Kingdom of Thailand          Ports              47.00         -       45.51
1922     1980  Kingdom of Thailand          Ag. Research       30.00         -       28.97
1947     1981  Kingdom of Thailand          Potash              8.90         -        2.15
Engineering
1956     1981  Industrial Finance Corp.   Industry             30.00         -        0.20
of Thailand



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
- 28 -
Amount ($ milLion)
Loan or                                                              less cancellations
credit                                                         Bank         IDA      Undis-
number   Year            Borrower             Purpose                                bursed
2000     1981  Electricity Generating       Power             100.00         -        74.02
Authority of Thailand
2022     1981  Kingdom of Thailand          Irrigation         57.00         -       48.98
2035     1981  Kingdom of Thailand          Provincial Roads  35.00          -        12.29
2078     1982  Kingdom of Thailand          Tree Crops        142.00         -        76.99
2143     1982  Telephone Organization       Telecommnuini-    142.10         -       106.01
of Thailand                 catiaos
2178     1982  Kingdom of Thailand          Education          75.00         -       67.00
2184     1982  Petroleum Authority of       Liquified Petro-  90.00          -       69.84
Thailand                    leum Gas
2198     1982  Kingdom of Thailand          Agriculture        17.00         -        16.59
2310     1983  Bank for Agricllture &       Agriculture        70.00         -        28.67
Cooperatives
2311     1983  Kingdom of Thailand          Prov. Roads       100.00         -       98.64
2312     1983  Provincial Electricity       Rural Elec-        30.60         -        30.52
Authority                   trification
B-001    1983  Telephone Organization
of Thailand               Telecom.            8.50         -         3.05
2402     1984  Kingdom of Thailand          Rural Dev.         50.00         -       49.88
Total                                            3,288.95     124.84  1,082.39
of which has been repaid                        391.34        3.26
Total Now Outstanding                           2,897.61      121.58
Amount sold /c                   68.63
of which has been repaid      58.69                9.94
Total Now Held by Bank and IDA                  2,887.67      121.58
Total Undisbursed                                1,054.49      27.90  1,082.39
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and cir-
culated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
T7  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
-29 -                             Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amounts (S million)
Year                   Company                    Type of business    Loan  Equity  Total
1959       Concrete Products and               Cement and Construc-
Aggregate Co., Ltd.                 tion Materials          0.3    -       0.3
1964/1971  Industrial                          Development Finance
Finance Corporation of             Company                   -    0.4      0.4
Thailand (IFCT)
1969/1976  Siam Cement Group                   Cement and Construc-
1978/1980                                        tion Materials         28.3   4.5    32.8
;977       Mutual Fund Company Limited         Money and Capital Market  -    0.3       0.3
1977       United Sugar Terminal Limited       Food and Food
Processing              2.5   0.2      2.7
1978       Siam Commercial Bank                Small and Medium Scale
Industries              2.0    -       2.0
1979/1983  Bangkok Glass Industry Co. Ltd.   Glass Containers            9.9   0.4    10.3
1979/1981  Siam City Cement Co. Ltd.           Cement and Construc-
tion materials        109.7   4.8   114.5
1979       Thai Orient Leasing Co. Ltd.        Capital Market             -    0.1      0.1
1983       Sea Minerals Limited                Mining                     -    0.3      0.3
1983       National Petrochemical Corp.        Chemicals & petro-
chemical                 -    0.3      0.3
1983       Thailand Tantalum                   Mining                   53.5   3.9    57.4
-X1984      World Aquaculture                   Food and Food
Processing              2.3   0.6      2.9
1984        Southeast Asia Venture              Venture Capital            -    1.0      1.0
Investment
Total Gross Commitments                                   208.5  16.8   225.3
Less cancellations, termi-
nations, repayments and sales                          147.1   3.5   150.6
Net held by the corporation                                61.4  13.3    74.7
Total Undisbursed                                          72.5   6.3    78.8



ANNEX III
-30 -
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:  August 1980 to April 1983
(33 months)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:               Ministry of Interior with
assistance from ADAB and
UNDP
(c)  First mission to consider project:           November 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:              May 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                  February 8, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:               July 31, 1985
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
Agreements were reached with the Borrower:
(a) on providing adequate staffing for project units in DOLA, PWD, and
the municipalities be provided in accordance with an agreed
timetable (para. 41).
(b) on preparing an action program by October 1, 1987 for improving the
operation and maintenance functions of the project cities
(para. 41).
(c)  on concluding an agreement by June 30,1986 between the City of
Songkhla and FMO for operating the new fishport (para. 41).
(d) on carrying out the remaining tasks of the action program Eor fiscal
improvement and municipal finance reform (para. 44).



h        -                                                                                              q 
o00'.                                                 THAI LAND
I                        REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
URBAN GROWTH CENTERS
B  U  R  M   A                              7     >                                            rj     PROJECT CITIES
-20                    tt-        >t }       s     /  C^|.B|l 4**|g}                                     t3/OTHER FIFTH PLAN DESIGNATED URBAN GROWTH CENTERS
f'%  ~~~~~~~~~~      I ~~~~~~~~ROADS
g1     )               I   /-,t                        I              \-.---.--- _>t RAILWAYS
''   5                             ~~     ~~~~~~~~0 PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
0                                                                                         P - - - \   j  rROVINCIALICHANGWAT) BOUNDARIES
.   l _    J   ( yJ   t   f-#   )                                  REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
Rr(                     O*                                         I INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
, d t  0          /.                                                         LAO       PEOPLE'S
'1   \, '                                                     *, ,_j   /=   (t    t545r-  K   t  L-  I DEMOCRATIC
( \   \  ( tJ ( / \               i ;*  ,l 7                                                                REPUBLIC
J       -~~~~~~  /        I ~~~~~Kh~ol   Kie'K                                  b
160                                                                                                                                                             160
L       o/J  /   Jr iKrh^,,,CNa2 S ) tX-_No%r Sar,
Than,                                                                        a chamana~ro' Rtdasa 
1 ,a   B SsLtair                       r r   ur-'
\$ t--'-1~~~~~~~No
.  .          .    .KO



% \ % Phlet  Blrin                       }          )   i   S|               Srr stI                i    go _N  c '_        _
Phet gi.                 >j                              wjos NW do U    VW  r40N    Lot Of TW no aw W iw JWtUw
-12                                                                                             Fa      CbPt  p  Khiri  LAW )  'e  o             12   -
t   - : 4     .<                                                  ~         ~         ~~~~~i DEMOCRATIC  '   3
S            ;                A*  /                                                                       KAMPUCHEA   |
Ch\ /humphon              n. 11 7.                              1u ei ,, R,             J
I~~~~~~~~~~~
m -
c   Khiri Khan                                                                                     120104
' .c.~ /  7U\>, \s '7  *                                                              * DMO RTC
, ^ t t v-\} \ \ < ;KAMP>UCHEA) 
,'9pho    Tag         h                                            An/mnik               }
',  Thmaa 20,0  S00  >  .  .   ( >\BURMA  *
LAO..),
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P D                                                           FRI
Philmets  lung    )           \        X                        >    >    EM THAILAND Y
~,DEMAOCRATIC
KAMPUCH4EAJ   '
Andaman
fa                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~c A
Sea
0        ~~100         200            300Se
Kilomaetfa                                                                                               MA AY           I
0               ~~~100                 200                                                                                                     0
Mliii                                                              a           . ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~SINGAPhE 
1000             MALAYSIA                                                I DN E Sl



