Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4673-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 8, 1985
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Urban and Water Supply Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Baht (B)
$1                  =       B 27.0
B 1                 -       $ .037
B 1 million         =       $37,037
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                   -       39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)         =       10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kiLometer (km)              =       0.62 mile
1 rai                         =       0.16 hectare or 0.395 acre
1 hectare (ha)                =       6.25 rai or 2.471 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMA      -   Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
DOLA     -   Department of Local Administration
DTCP     -   Department of Town and Country Planning
FMO      -   Fish Marketing Organization
MDF      -   Municipal Development Fund
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
MOI      -   Ministry of Interior
MWWA     -   Metropolitan Water Works Authority
NESDB    -   National Economic and Social Development Board
NHA      -   National Housing Authority
OUD      -   Office for Urban Development
PWA      -   Provincial Water Works Authority
PWD      -   Public Works Department
[JNDP    -   United Nations Development Program
Royal Thai Government
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiaries:    Municipalities of Chiang Mai, Khon Kaen, Nakhon Ratchasima,
and Songkhla.
Amount:            $27.5 million.
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years' grace, at the standard variable
interest rate
Project
Description:    The proposed project has been designed to support Government
efforts to stimulate economic development and regional
growth in the three poorest of Thailand's six regions by:
(a) improving selected basic infrastructure in the four
project cities including: (i) road and drainage improve-
ments, (ii) wastewater disposal, (iii) solid waste
collection, (iv) flood protection, (v) new roads and
bridges, and (vi) road maintenance equipment; (b) provision
of a combined fishing port and commercial/industrial zone in
one of the cities; and (c) institutional development through
policy measures and technical assistance which would
strengthen municipal administration and the Ministry of
Interior in carrying out development programs. The main
project risks are an untested implementation capacity for a
project of this magnitude and the uncertainty of the cities'
ability to collect adequate revenue to repay their project
loans. The principal implementation risk is related to land
acquisition. Technical assistance and other measures
proposed under the project to strengthen the involved
institutions and to improve municipal finances are expected
to minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:             Category                 Local   Foreign   Total
…- (US$ million) -----
Drainage and sanitation              4.3      2.9       7.2
Urban transport                       7.2     4.0      11.2
Revenue earning facilities           3.8      1.8       5.6
Slum improvement                     0.8      0.4       1.2
Land                                 6.0       -        6.0
Technical assistance                 2.5      4.0       6.5
Project administration                1.2      -        1.2
Base Cost                      25.9    13.1       39.0
Physical contingencies               2.6      1.6       4.2
Price contingencies                  4.8      2.9       7.7
Total Project Cost /a          33.3    17.6       50.9
Bank Front-End Fee /b                 -        -         -
Total Financing Required    33.3    17.6          50.9
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                14.9    12.6       27.5
Australia                              -      5.0       5.0
Government                            5.6      -        5.6
Project Cities                      12.8       -       12.8
Total                          33.3    17.6       50.9
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY       1985   1986    1987    1988   1989
-…-----…= - (US$ million) ---------
Annual         1.5    4.5       9.4    8.1    4.0
Cumulative    1.5    6.0    15.4    23.5   27.5
Rate of Return:  30% (weighted average)
Map: IBRD-17451
/a   Including estimated taxes and duties totalling US$5.1 million.
7_   Bank front-end fee is 0%.



THAILAND REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.   BACKGROUND ................... .................. ..........         1
A. Urban Background ................................. .... .        1
B.  Priorities in the Urban Sector ........................        2
C. Past Experience in Bank-supported Urban and Water
Supply Projects .....................................        3
D.  Municipal Administration .........................             4
II.    PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING ...................         5
A.  Background and Objectives .............................        5
B.  Project Description  . ........ . ................. .          6
C. Cost Estimates ........................... 0* ................ O-  11
D.  Financial Arrangements ............................... .      12
III.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .......        14
A.  Executing Agencies  ... ...*e ......so* ...... .......        14
B.  Project Organization and Managemento............              15
C.  Implementation Schedule ............................ .        17
D. Operations              andMaintenance.........................  17
E.  Land Acquisition ......................................       17
F. Procurement .................... ....... ..                    18
G.    Disbursements .................  .    ..............................  20
H. Accounts and A u d i t s ...................................   21
I. Monitoring and        Evaluation*.. ..* ...............        22
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                       ..                          22
A.    Municipal  Finances  ..... . .... .  .....  e ... .   ............ .  22
B.  Cost Recovery and Service Pricing............so#.........     28
This report is based on the findings of preappraisal, appraisal and post-
appraisal missions which visited Thailand in August 1982, May 1983 and
September 1984 respectively. The mission members consisted of Ms. Gochenour
and Mrs. Velji (AEPUW), Ms. Murphy (AEADA), Messrs. Ahmad, Miller and Stott
(AEPUW) and Messrs. Akhuputra and Gidman (consultants). In addition Messrs.
Jones (WUD) and Temple (RMB) assisted during preparations. Ms. Bayulken and
Mrs. Linehan and Paratore assisted in Washington, D.C.



Page No.
V.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...........................        31
A.  Sectoral Benefits ................................... . .      31
B.  Economic Justification . . ..............................      31
C. Social Impact                  ...... ....   33
D.  Environmental Impact ................ ................. .      34
E. Project Risks                      ....   34
VI.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............        34
ANNEXES
1. The Project Cities
2. Equipment Procurement List
3. Drainage and Sanitation Component Summary
4. Urban Transport Component Summary
5. Songkhla Fishport and Commercial/Industrial Zone Component Summary
6. Slum Improvement Component Summary
7. Technical Assistance Program
8. Detailed Cost Estimates
9. Agency Responsibilities for Project Implementation
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
11. Municipal Financial Analyses
12. List of Documents in Project File
13. Economic Analysis
EXHIBITS
A. Typical Municipal Organization Structure
B. Project Organization
C. Overall Project Management and Implementation Organization
D. Project Implementation Schedule
E. Songkhla Fishport and Commercial/Industrial Zone
F. Thailand Urban Growth Centers
C. Nakhon Ratchasima
H. Chiang Mai and Khon Kaen
I.  Songkhla



I. BACKGROUND
A. Urban Background
1.01      One out of every six of Thailand's 50 million people lives in an
urban area. In relation to many other Asian countries this is a low level of
urbanization. However, the annual rate of population growth in urban areas is
now estimated to be 5.3%; about two and a half times faster than the national
rate and reflecting, in part, increasing rural-urban migration. There are
substantial gaps in economic performance and living standards motivating
migration between the predominantly rural peripheral regions and the rela-
tively industrialized central region, which includes the capital, Bangkok.
The disparities between Bangkok and the regional urban centers are reflected
most strikingly in population terms. Less than one half of Thailand's
estimated urban population of 9.3 million people live in provincial cities and
towns; the majority, some 5.6 million people, live in Bangkok. The next
largest city, Chiang Mai, has a municipal population of about 160,000 which is
less than Bangkok's annual population growth. By the end of this century
Thailand's urban growth is expected to have added over l0-]L2 million people
into its cities. At least half of this increase is likely to be absorbed by
provincial cities and towns.
1.02      It is estimated that 12% of the urban population., some one million
people, live in households which have total incomes at or below a relative
poverty level of 2000 Baht/month. The incidence of urban poverty is propor-
tionally greater in regional cities and towns outside the Central Region.
Among the cities to be addressed by the proposed project, the poor constitute
between 11 and 33% of the urban population (compared to 9% in Bangkok), total-
ling an estimated 25,000 families, almost one quarter of the urban poor that
live outside the capital. Incomes in the project cities have grown in recent
years, and it is estimated by Thailand's National Economic and Social
Development Board (NESDB) that the average economic growth rate over the next
few years up to 1990 will be about 5% p.a. in the urban areas compared to a
projected national growth rate of about 3.9%.
1.03      Provision of services in regional cities lag behind national urban
averages, although the cities' poor do not necessarily sufier greater service
deficiencies due to their diffuse distribution among higher income groups. In
Chiang Mai, the best served of the regional cities, piped water service was,
until recent improvement, accessible to only 40% of the population or little
more than half the percentage of the population served in Bangkok. Health
services, likewise, were available to about one third the degree possible in
the capital. Social and industrial infrastructure both lag in development
although degrees of deficiency differ among cities. Responsibility for
services in regional cities is fragmented among various ministries' agencies
and state enterprises as well as the municipalities. Conspicuous infrastruc-
ture deficiencies within the responsibility of the municipalities are
inadequate drainage and flood protection, poor sanitation and inadequate road
capacity. None of the municipalities has much reserve infrastructure capacity
to accommodate urban expansion nor do they possess sufficient technical and
financial resources to deal with the growing backlog of remedial works.



- 2 -
1.04      All of Thailand's municipalities are administered by municipal
organizations whose staff, policies and financial resources fall chiefly under
the purview of the Ministry of Interior (MOI), the largest and one of the
oldest of Thailand's ministries. The decision making powers of municipalities
are narrowly circumscribed by government regulations which largely determine
the level of annual budgets and expenditure programs, the level of fees which
may be charged for specific services and the number and quality of staff.
Revenue generation is weak and the past failure of Government to allow munici-
pal taxes and fees to keep pace with growth of expenditures has not only meant
an increasing drain on the central government budget but also that services
and maintenance of facilities have lagged significantly behind requirements.
Expenditure by provincial and local government in 1980, including Bangkok, was
24 billion Baht, which represented about 10% of total public sector expendi-
ture. About three-quarters of that expenditure was financed from central
government grants. Municipalities are less reliant on central grants than
rural local authorities since they receive a greater proportion of centrally
collected and administered surcharge and shared taxes. Municipal expenditure
in 1980, excluding Bangkok, was about 2 billion Baht, of which about 800 mil-
lion Baht or 40% was financed from central government grants.
B. Priorities in the Urban Sector
1.05      Sector strategy.  In contrast to the economic growth objectives of
earlier National Economic and Social Development Plans, the Government's Fifth
Plan (1982-86) places emphasis on achieving, through structural adjustment
measures, greater economic efficiency and equitable distribution of
services. In support of the Government's efforts to attain its dual goals the
Bank's urban sector lending strategy embodies three principal areas of
emphasis: (a) strengthening of the capabilities of national agencies and
local governments in planning, financing and delivering urban services;
(b) enhancement of urban centers (especially in the peripheral regions) to
stimulate economic development; and (c) poverty alleviation through the
provision of basic needs to the urban poor.   Lending in Thailand's disparate
urban sector has two different emphases. In the vigorous, agglomeration-based
economy of the Bangkok region the emphasis is on the objectives of poverty
alleviation and institutional development to improve urban efficiency. In
regional cities the appropriate emphasis is on the redressal of key adminis-
trative and infrastructural deficiencies which constrain their role as service
and market centers to the adjoining rural economy. An essential key element
in a regional cities strategy for Thailand is the design of programs which
enhance the attractiveness of urban centers for a wide variety of productive
activities. Of particular importance in the longer term will be the
strengthening of municipalities so that they will have the capacity to
formulate sound development programs and the means to mobilize sufficient
resources to implement them.
1.06      Infrastructure Investment.  The development of regional cities
throughout Thailand will support the Government's poverty alleviation efforts.
It would help to strengthen the direct linkages between an urban and rural
development strategy, and provide some of the necessary conditions to make
Government's emerging decentralization policy work. For example, deconcentra-



- 3 -
tion of Thailand's large bureaucracy - now overwhelmingly located in Bangkok -
will be made much easier if the outlying cities and towns can offer a suffi-
ciently attractive environment to accommodate educated ThaLis and their fami-
lies. A dynamic urban environment suggests also an ability to attract indus-
tries which support and supply the rural populace. Large industries are more
likely to be attracted by Bangkok's large consumer market, skilled labor pool,
better infrastructure and input supplies. It is, therefore, the development
of resource based, small-scale enterprises such as agro-processing and handi-
crafts which holds the greatest promise for industrial development in the
outlying regions. Attraction of such industries implies in part overcoming
the infrastructure deficiencies which exist as constraints for small-scale
industrial development. Measures to deal with major constraints outside the
responsibility of the municipalities, such as poor telecommunications, limited
water supply, transport difficulties and limited access to credit are listed
in the Government's Fifth Plan. Several sectoral initiatives are either under
implementation or in preparation by variou7 Government agencies, in many cases
through projects with Bank participation.-   In addition, for a number of
years, the Government has, with UNDP and Bank assistance, been exploring ways
and means to improve basic social services and municipal infrastructure in
regional cities and address the weaknesses of local administration which has
culminated in the proposed project.
1.07      Institutional Development.  The strategy for strengthening municipal
government in Thailand requires gradual, inter-related changes in its institu-
tional framework. These would include key measures aimed at strength-
ening of municipal management and technical capabilities, improving local
government revenues and strengthening the ability of MOI t:o provide technical
assistance and monitor performance. The most important measures in the long-
term process of municipal reform are to improve municipal planning, budgeting
and accounting procedures, and revenue collection efficiency and to strengthen
Government's ability to assist the municipalities develop their administra-
tive, fiscal and operational mechanisms.
C. Past Experience in Bank-supported Urban and Water Supply Projects
1.08      The Bank's support of the urban and water supply sector began in the
mid-70s with attention to Bangkok's water supply, shelter and traffic needs.
Emphasis has recently expanded to include regional development-oriented
projects in water supply and shelter. Experience with these projects, four of
which are still ongoing, has been mixed. Physical achievements have generally
been successful but institutional gains or performances have been disappoint-
ing in three cases. The first loan, to the Metropolitan Water Works
Authority, (MWWA) (Loan 1021, 1974), has been implemented and was successful
1/   Including:  Loan 2143-TH, Fourth Telecommunications lProject (1982); Loan
1863-TH, Provincial Water Supply Project (1980); Loan 2311-TH, Second
Provincial Highways Project (1983). In addition a proposed Bank-
supported Industrial Credit Project is being discussed with the
Government which will, inter-alia, address small-scale industry develop-
ment in regional cities.



- 4 -
in improving water supplies in Bangkok but, because of Government's inability
to raise tariffs, it did not meet the objective of transforming the authority
into a financially viable entity. The subsequent Provincial Water Supply
Project (Loan 1863, 1980) supports development of potable water supplies in
over 120 towns but is progressing slowly due to inexperience in the newly
instituted Provincial Waterworks Authority (PWA). Lastly, institutional
difficulties initially beset the Bangkok Traffic Management Project (Loan
1638, 1979) but have now been largely resolved. This project has implemented
several low-cost measures for traffic management and is helping to establish a
capacity for urban transport planning in MOI.
1.09      The Bank's most promising intervention in the sector to-date has
been in shelter. Through support of the National Housing Authority (NHA) the
Bank has assisted in the promotion of low-cost housing programs in Thailand.
Though the initial NHA project (Loan 1556, 1978), was delayed by a major
contract dispute, it has completed during 1983 a pilot demonstration of sites
and services and slum improvement approaches in Bangkok. A second NHA project
(Loan 1870, 1980) reinforces the significant institution building and policy
gains of the first and includes sites in eight regional cities as well as
Bangkok. Although disbursements have been delayed, due initially to procure-
ment delays and subsequently to land acquisition difficulties, the project is
now progressing well and has, among other things, helped initiate a dialogue
with the Government on housing finance development. Future Bank lending in
the sector will continue to emphasize institution building and urban
management. Forthcoming projects are expected to deal with city-wide
infrastructure deficiencies in Bangkok, particularly drainage, and provide
further support for NHA as well as regional development.
D. Municipal Administration
1.10      Within the Thai administrative structure, urban local government is
administered through various forms of municipality. The municipality is a
quasi self-governing body with an elected assembly but is subordinate to the
territorial administration. Chief officials of the assembly and the municipal
executive are appointed by the provincial governor. The affairs of the muni-
cipality are supervised by the municipal executive under the leadership of the
Mayor, and the administrative head is the Town Clerk. Administrative staff
are usually organized into five divisions responsible for at least one service
or function (see Exhibit A). There is, however, no clear distinction between
policy and management in the operations of municipalities, and the responsibi-
lities of the Mayor can often overlap those of a division chief. The number
of staff employed by municipalities is closely controlled by the Department of
Local Administration (DOLA) and the movement and promotion of all but the most
junior staff is also decided by Central Government. Municipal career service
is less remunerative than Central Government service and because of the
detailed control exercised by Central Government, and is regarded as less
prestigious. Municipalities usually have some trained technical staff
(engineers, architects, etc.) but administrative and financial staff tend to
have little training other than that at-college or university.



-5 -
1.11      By law, Thailand's municipalities provide a prescribed range of ser-
vices dealing mainly with public order, health, education, welfare and trans-
portation. In addition, a number of other services may be provided at the
discretion of the municipality, including municipal enterprises, hospitals,
vocational training, sports facilities and slum improvement,, among others.
Some services typically provided by local governments in other countries such
as housing, water supply, electricity and police are mainly operated by state
enterprises or government departments. Municipal expenditure patterns reflect
local priorities as resources permit but are influenced strongly by Central
Government funding allocations. The structure of municipal finance in
Thailand - virtually unchanged in almost 30 years - precludes local financial
autonomy. Because of central restrictions on the rate at which local taxes,
fees and charges can be levied, the proportion of local expenditure financed
from local sources has been declining (see Annex 11, Tables 13-16). In the
project cities, for example, about 30% of municipal revenues has been, on
average, derived from locally collected property taxes and rentals, licence
fees and service charges. Improvements to local revenues will begin to
redress the reliance on central sources of revenue, although these will emerge
only gradually and municipalities must continue for the fore!seeable future to
rely for the bulk of their income on the system of national surcharge and
shared taxes and various kinds of routine and special grants. Because of
their reliance on annual budgetary allocations from Central Government, long
and medium-term planning is currently not practiced in the municipalities.
Moreover, any attempt at fiscal planning would suffer from the currently
inadequate accounting procedures and weak financial manageme!nt experience.
1.12      The evolution of a systematic program by MOI to assist development
of municipalities has been weak, although technical assistance is provided
routinely in local spatial planning matters and on an ad-hoc: basis for engin-
eering services by MOI's Departments of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) and
Public Works (PWD), respectively. In addition, DOLA has provided staff
training for municipal personnel through its Academy of Local Government
Administration. However, the traditional functions of DOLA, the principal MOI
department concerned with municipal affairs, emphasize detailed control of
municipal government with the intention of preventing abuse and ensuring
uniform behavior, thereby preventing a focus on broader issues and stultifying
innovation. Despite this prescriptive environment, a strong movement has
emerged during recent years aimed at municipal regulatory reforms and a
gradual restructuring of relationships toward greater autonomy for the larger
regional cities.
II. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Background and Objectives
2.01      Development of key regional cities is a long-stancling goal of the
Government. Ten cities were identified for attention in the Government's
Fourth Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81) but little concrete was
accomplished. In 1979 a Bank urban sector mission visited Thailand to review
national policy issues affecting the development of regional. cities. During
the study, agreement was reached with Government on the scope of the proposed



project and its focus on five cities located in the country's three poorest
regions - Chiang Mai in the Northern Region, Khon Kaen and Nakhon Ratchasima
(also known as Korat) in the Northeast and Hat Yai and Songkhla in the
South. In addition to interregional inequity, selection of the cities took
into consideration their economic diversity and growth potential including
relative administrative abil ties and planned complementary major
infrastructure investments.2   Prefeasibility studies financed by UNDP in 1980
identified major investments that would overcome infrastructure deficiencies
in the five cities and a regional cities development strategy incorporating
the project was included in the Government's Fifth Plan (1982-86). During
1982, as part of the second Bank supported NHA project, UNDP-financed
feasibility studies were undertaken together with complementary studies of
municipal administration and finance improvement and reform. The findings of
the studies in respect to four of the cities (investments in Hat Yai were not
included) were finally approved by the Government in January 1985. Ongoing
detailed engineering of the project is being financed mainly by the AustraliarnL
government through its Bank co-financing facility.
2.02      The proposed project has been designed to support Government efforts
to stimulate economic development and regional growth in the three poorest of
Thailand's six regions by:
(a) improving basic infrastructure in the four project cities;
(b) strengthening municipal administration particularly in finance and
planning, and in implementation, operation and maintenance of urban
services; and
(c) strengthening the capacity of the MOI, specifically its Departments
of Local Administration and Public Works, to assist municipalities
in carrying out their development programs.
B. Project Description
2.03      The proposed project, which would be the first Bank supported pro-
ject of its kind in Thailand includes:
(a) municipal infrastructure improvements, ($18.4 million base cost,
January 1985 prices) including extensive road and drainage improve-
ments in all cities; wastewater collection and treatment facilities
in Korat and Khon Kaen; solid waste dump sites, workshops and
equipment in Khon Kaen, Korat and Songkhla; new roads and bridges in
Chiang Mai and road maintenance equipment in Khon Kaen;
2/   Annex 1 provides further details of the selection process and summary
descriptions of the project cities.



- 7 -
(b) provision of revenue earning facilities, ($5.6 million) including a
a combined fishing port and commercial/industrial zone (in
Songhkla);
(c) slum improvement, ($1.2 million) concentrating primarily on access
and environmental sanitation in Chiang Mai, and Songhkla; and
(d) institutional development, ($7.1 million) including policy measures
and technical assistance and training to the municipalities, and the
MOI to (i) strengthen municipal administration in the areas of
planning, programming, budgeting, accounting, financial management
and revenue improvement, (ii) assist in project implementation,
operation and maintenance, and (iii) prepare a future project and
undertake associated studies.
Municipal Infrastructure
2.04      Drainage and Sanitation.  The interrelated systemrs of flood protec-
tion, drainage and waste disposal have received less attention than other
infrastructure systems consequently causing the chief infrastructural defi-
ciency influencing environmental conditions in the cities. This would be
dealt with through the project as summarized below. Further details of the
proposed drainage and sanitation components are given in Annex 3.
(a) Improvements to about 12 km of key main drainage waterways will be
made in all cities together with improvements to a total of about
16 km of secondary drains in roads and streets. Seasonal and flash
floodings are expected to be reduced in all cities as well as dry-
weather flows improved thereby reducing stagnant conditions.
(b) Health-threatening and environmentally obnoxious conditions during
low flow periods will be further reduced in the major drainage
waterways serving Khon Kaen and Korat through prcvision of 6 km of
wastewater interceptor sewers, pumping stations and diversions. The
condition of badly polluted receiving waters affecting downstream
users will also be improved in Khon Kaen and Korat through the
introduction of waste water treatment pond systems. These improve-
ments represent the first attempt to deal with municipal wastewater
pollution on a city-wide scale in Thailand.
(c)  Solid waste management systems in Korat, Khon Kaen and Songkhla will
be improved to reduce substantially their uncollected waste through
increased collection coverage and efficiency and the provision of
sanitary landfill disposal sites. Additional collection, disposal
and maintenance equipment will be provided and management and oper-
ations improved through better planning and maintenance.
2.05            Urban Transport.  The urban transport improvements in all
cities will reduce congestion and facilitate traffic movement along principal
arteries and in central commercial areas. About 14 km of road improvements
and several major intersection improvements in total will be constructed
throughout all cities. Improvements will include new roads, realignments and



- 8 -
widenings, resurfacing, road marking, traffic signals and sidewalk construc-
tion. Where appropriate, drainage improvements (para. 2.04) will be carried
out simultaneously. In Chiang Mai a much needed 4-lane bridge will be
constructed to improve highway capacity across a river dividing the municipal
area. The capacity of an existing bridge in Chiang Mai will also be improved
by widening to accommodate separated pedi-cab traffic streams. Small amounts
of road maintenance equipment (see Annex 2) will be furnished to Khon Kaen as
part of an effort to upgrade municipal maintenance capability (para. 3.10).
Further details of the proposed urban transport component are given in
Annex 4.
Revenue-earning Facilities
2.06      The construction of the Songkhla fishport and commercial/industrial
zone will be a key measure in the municipality's efforts to stimulate
commercial and industrial development, increase tourism and improve
productivity in the city's main industry, fishing. Existing inefficient and
congested fish Landing and handling facilities close to the city centre cause
considerable environmental nuisance and depress potentially high values of
surrounding property. The proposed port would incorporate a 340 m long main
wharf and 300 m wharf for small craft on the fringe of a 23 ha site reclaimed
from the Songkhla Lake (Exhibit F). About 4.6 ha of the site will be leased
together with the   rt facilities by the municipality to the Fish Marketing
Organization (FMO)-X or other appropriate authority who will operate and
maintain the port. The remaining 18.4 ha will be serviced and leased by the
municipality as an industrial/commercial zone. Wastewater effluents from the
port and zone operations will be treated prior to discharge to the
environmentally sensitive lake. The Government has agreed to prepare a
satisfactory plan for the marketing and operation of the industrial estate
including typical leasing arrangements and principles of the leasing fee
determination (para. 4.23). Further details of this subcomponent are given in
Annex 5.
Slum Improvement
2.07      A limited demand exists among the cities for slum improvements.
Four pockets of relatively high density, poorly serviced residential areas in
Chiang Mai, Korat and Songkhla containing about 1,750 families will be provi-
ded with improved access and environmental sanitation (drainage and solid
3/   The FMO is a state enterprise under the control of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives. FMO currently handles about 80% of all
fish landings in Thailand and operates 12 ports including the existing
Songkhla fishport which, with annual landings of 60,000 and 140,000 tons
of table fish and trash fish respectively, accounts for 15% of FMO's
total throughput.



- 9 -
waste collections).  Water and electricity supplies, as may be feasible,4/
would be arranged through PWA (or the municipal supply in Korat) and the
Provincial Electricity Authority. The municipalities in each case will be
assisted in the implementation of the improvements and tenure negotiations by
NHA. Further details of this component are given in Annex 6.
Institutional Development
2.08      The project will address administrative and financial deficiencies
in the four project cities. New accounting and budgeting systems will be
installed and improvements will be introduced to the municipalities planning
procedures and financial reports. In addition, assistance will be provided to
address inefficiencies in the collection and assessment of property taxes, the
main source of local tax revenue. Along with these measures, Central Govern-
ment is expected to amend the appropriate legislation to permit increases in
local fee, fine and permit revenue. These measures are intended to improve
local revenues as well as overall municipal administation. The project will
support the establishment of a permanent unit in each project city concerned
with economic, social and spatial planning and evaluation as well as
coordination with central planning agencies.
2.09      Technical Assistance and Training.  The technical assistance and
training package included in the project is described briefly below. More
details are contained in Annex 7 including study objectives, timetables and
key outputs. The principal aims of the package are: (a) to strengthen
Government's project implementation capacity through advisory assistance and
engineering services; and (b) assist Government in the preparation of a future
regional cities project which would reinforce and further develop the policy
measures formulated by the project. The studies to be included in the package
are:
(a) a review of the Municipal Development Fund (3 man-months); and
(b)  future regional cities development project preparatory studies,
including, inter-alia, (i) city selection criteria, (ii) further
municipal administration and revenue reform measures and (iii) feas-
ibility and preliminary engineering (200 man-months total).
The advisory and engineering services and training described below would be
provided by Australian consultants funded with the assistance of grants
totalling $5.0 million provided by the Australian Government under its Bank
co-financing facility arrangement. The costs indicated in paras. 2.10 to 2.12
below exclude contingency allowances.
4/   Water supplies in Chiang Mai, Korat and Songkhla are presently inadequate
in the project slum areas and will be addressed under forthcoming water
supply improvement projects planned by the respective water
authorities. Connections would be available to residents on request and
payment of the appropriate connection fee.



- 10 -
2.10      Advisory and Engineering Services for Project Implementation
($5.4 million). Technical assistance has been or will be sought by the
Government in accordance with Bank guidelines from expatriate and local
consultants to provide on-the-job training and supplement the skills and
capacity of the city and central agency staffs concerned with implementation
as follows:
(a) PWD will be provided with about 20 man-years of foreign and 62 man-
years of local consultants' assistance for detailed engineering,
land acquisition, construction supervision, project management and
monitoring. In addition the consultants will provide training under
an arrangement whereby PWD and the cities will second 34 man-years
of junior staff to the consultant's project team for on-the-job
experience in surveying, engineering design and procurement, quality
control and construction supervision.
(b) DOLA will be provided with 15 man-months of municipal financial
management advisory services to assist with: (i) implementation and
monitoring of new planning, budgeting, accounting and financial
management systems; (ii) design and implementation of project
accounts; and (iii) study the requirements for an expansion of the
Municipal Development Fund.
2.11      Trainin  ($0.07 million).  In addition to the training of the pro-
ject agencies  staff included in technical assistance described above, the
following training assistance and equipment will be provided:
(a) to PWD for (i) wastewater analysis training and laboratory equip-
ment, (ii) municipal engineering, planning and design training
fellowships; and
(b) to DOLA for municipal administration training system development,
equipment, study tours and fellowships.
2.12      Future Project Preparation and Studies (S$1.0 million).  Once
experience has been gained under the proposed project indicating the appro-
priate direction of future regional cities development, assistance will be
provided to NESDB and MOI for forward planning, feasibility and preliminary
engineering studies for a future project.



- 11 -
C. Cost Estimates
2.13      The total project cost is estimated to be 1.38 billion Baht
($50.9 million equivalent) of which the foreign exchange element (both direct
and indirect) is estimated at about 35% or about 0.47 billion Baht.  The taxes
and duties element of total project cost is estimated at 0.15 billion Baht.
Summary cost estimates are given in the Table II.1 below, and detailed cost
estimates by city and component are given in Annex 8.  Detailed cost estimates
for the technical assistance program are given in Annex 7.
2.14      Project costs were estimated by PWD and their consultants5/ and Bank
staff on the basis of detailed and advanced preliminary engineering designs
and include land acquisition, construction works, technical. assistance and
physical and price contingencies. All base cost estimates are expressed in
January J785 prices. In the absence of completed detailed engineering
designs,_ a physical contingency allowance of 15% has been made for all
components except land acquisition (no allowance provided) and technical
assistance (5% allowance provided), and amounts to about 11% of base cost.
Price contingencies for local currency costs are based on expected increases
in construction costs of 8% in 1985, 7% in 1986 and 6% per annum thereafter.
The corresponding rates for foreign costs are 8% in 1985, 9% in 1986 to 1988,
7.5% in 1989 and 6.5% per annum thereafter. The overall price contingency
amoun57 to about 20% of base cost. Consulting services costs total $7.6 mil-
lion.-
5/   Sinclair Knight and Partners (Australia) in association with TEAM
Consulting Engineers, Asian Engineering Consultants arid Sumet Jumsai
Associates (Thailand).
6/   Detailed engineering designs and tender documents are being prepared by
PWD and consultants; tender documents for components t:o be constructed
during the first project year have been completed. Most construction
works to be included in the project are of a relatively uncomplicated
variety (e.g. road and drainage improvements).
7/   The Australian Government has agreed to provide a total of about
$5.0 million equivalent as grants through its Bank Co-financing Facility
for detailed design, project management, system implementation and other
studies. The Government is likely to seek grant funds for the remainder
of consulting services required under technical assistance.



- 12 -
Table II.1 SUMMARY OF TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Baht '000                      $ '000              %         Z
Category                      Total      Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  of base  foreign
Land                          162,914  162,914          0   6,034   6,034            0    15.5       0.0
Drainage and sanitation       195,048  116,435   78,613   7,224   4,312         2,912    18.5       43.0
Urban transport               303,057  195,402  107,655  11,224   7,237         3,987    28.8       35.5
Revenue earning services    151,133  102,760   48,363   5,598   3,806            1,791    14.4      32.0
Slum improvement               32,137   20,246   11,891   1,190         750        440     3.1      37.0
Technical assistance          174,783   67,726  107,057   6,473   2,508         3,965    16.6       61.3
Project administration         33,629   33,629          0   1,246   1,246            0     3.2       0.0
Base Cost
Jan. 1985 prices          1,052,701  699,123  353,578  38,989  25,893    13,095   100.0           33.6
Physical contingencies        114,607   70,879   43,728   4,245   2,625          1,620    10.9      38.2
Price contingencies           208,237  130,857   77,380   7,712   4,847          2,866    19.8      37.2
Total Project Cost          1,375,545  900,859  474,686  50,946  33,364    17,581   130.7           34.5
Bank Front-End Fee                   0        0         0        0        0          0     0.0
Total Financing Required  1,375,545  900,859  474,686  50,946  33,365    17,581   130.7             34.5
/a   Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
/b   Taxes and duties amount to about $5.1 million (10% of total project cost).
D. Financial Arrangements
2.15      The proposed Bank loan would finance 60% of total project cost net
of taxes and duties, consistent with the objectives of the Bank's Special
Action Program. The Bank loan of $27.5 million would cover the total foreign
exchange requirements and local costs of about $9.8 million equivalent, or
about 54% of total project. The loan will be made to the Royal Thai Govern-
ment for a period of 20 years including five years' grace at the standard
variable interest rate. The loan proceeds would be passed to the four munici-
palities on a grant basis. The Government would bear the full cost of the
loan, including foreign exchange risk and interest and principal repayments.



- 13 -
2.16       The cities would be responsible for about 25% of :otal project costs
and the central government for about 11%, the latter being allocated to the
cities under the "specific grant procedure" (see para. 4.03).  It is expected
that the cities would borrow about 60% of their contributions from sources
arranged by the Ministry of Finance and from development funds managed by the
Ministry of Interior and provide about 40% from their development budgets.
Confirmation was obtained during negotiations regarding the required counter-
part financing arrangements and terms (see para. 4.11). The remaining 10% of
total project cost would be provided as a grant from the Australian government
for part of the technical assistance program. The sources of project finance
are summarized in Table II.2 below:
Table II.2: SOURCES OF PROJECT FUNDS
(Million Baht)
% of              IBRD loan   Central                              Australian
City/                project   Total   passed on   govern-    Cities           Cities    government
component               cost     cost    as grant       grant    revenues  borrowings         grant
Chiang Mai             24.0      330.3    142.1          83.6       28.7         75.9
Khon Kaen              14.1      194.3    110.6          31.1        9.2         43.4
Korat                  19.8      272.9    187.5          26.3       12.4         46.7
Songkhla               26.7      366.6    232.2           2.3       85.8        46.3
Tech. assistance       15.4      211.4       69.6         6.8         -            -          135.0
Total                 100.0   1,375.5    742.0          150.1      136.1       212.3          135.0
Total US$ equiv.    100.0         50.9       27.5         5.6        5.0          7.9           5.0
Z of Total               -       100.0       54.0        10.9        9.9         15.4           9.8
2.18       The financing plan has been developed with the understanding that it
is government policy that the cities should contribute to the cost of the
project to the fullest extent possible. An analysis was carried out of each
city's ability to pay in light of its current revenue base and the improvement
in revenue generating capacity as a result of reform measures to be imple-
mented (paras. 4.08-4.10) and of new income-generating faci'Lities to be
provided through the project. It is recognized, however, that the financial
reforms to be initiated will have only a modest impact on total city revenues
during the project period and that many of the project components have signi-
ficant benefits but low revenue generating capacity. A discussion of the
ability of the cities to contribute to the project is presented in para. 4.12.



- 14 -
III. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Executing Agencies
3.01      Overall responsibility for the project will be with the MOI.
Although the project differs significantly from normal municipal projects by
way of its magnitude, comprehensiveness, coordination requirements and
institution building objectives, it will build upon established institutional
capacity and follow the same functional responsibility lines as do more rou-
tine projects. The following key MOI departments concerned, DOLA and PWD and
project city administrations are working with the Bank for the first time
although all are long-established, experienced and potentially capable organi-
zations:
(a) DOLA, as discussed in para. 1.12, closely supervises the activities
of over 850 local governments including the 122 municipalities and
is responsible, among other things, for budgetary and expenditure
approvals, staff transfers and appointments training and installa-
tion of new administrative systems and procedures.
(b) PWD currently employs some 1,400 engineers and technicians for the
planning, design and construction of a wide variety of public build-
ings and infrastructure on differing scales, provides engineering
technical assistance on a project by project basis to all tiers of
local government on request and is responsible for reviewing and
approving all major works proposed by municipalities and those
funded by central government.
(c) The municipal organizations concerned vary in size from 1,200
(Chiang Mai) to 650 (Songkhla) employees. The project will directly
involve four of each of the municipalities' five main operating
divisions (see Exhibit A):
(i)    the City Clerk's office, responsible for local project man-
agement and proposed location of the new municipal planning
and evaluation unit;
(ii)    the Finance Division, recipient of the new financial
management systems;
(iii)    the Public Health Division, concerned with environmental
sanitation matters and maintenance in particular; and
(iv)    the Engineering Division, which will supply the core of the
local project implementation unit staff.
Project implementation experience varies among the cities, with typical annual
capital expenditures managed by them to-date ranging from 10 million Baht
($370,000) in Songkhla to 22 million Baht ($800,000) in Chiang Mai.



- 15 -
3.02      The need to strengthen the executing agencies both for project
implementation and future development purposes lies mainly in their lack of
capacity to deal with very large undertakings and unfamiliarity with manage-
ment of logistically complex undertakings. This need will be addressed
through: (a) the formation of permanent functional organizations, (b) trans-
fers of suitably qualified additional staff, and (c) suppcort and training pro-
vided by foreign and local consultants. DOLA will provide the municipalities
with the necessary administrative support through its Office for Urban
Development (OUD), originally established to help prepare the project but
recently given an expanded mandate covering all municipalities. Also recog-
nizing the need for more systematic assistance to municipalities, PWD has
recently decided to form a separate Technical Office for Cities Development.
Initially this unit will concentrate on the project cities but will eventually
be expected to provide similar assistance to other municipalities. The cities
will draw mainly on existing staff resources and arrangements to form their
project task forces but will also receive additional planning and engineering
staff. The chief supporting measure will be the provision of about 80 man-
years of local and foreign consultants to act as advisors and trainers in
project management matters and carry out the bulk of the project detailed
engineering and construction supervision. In view of the mainly simple nature
of the project works about two-thirds of the consultant resources to be used
will be obtained from Thai firms, with foreign experts providing assistance in
training and those managerial and complex technical areas relatively
unfamiliar to the agencies and local consultants.
B. Project Organization and Management
3.03      The municipalities will be responsible for execution of the project
under the overall guidance of the MOI, which will provide the necessary tech-
nical and administrative support to the cities through PWD and DOLA, respec-
tively. The project organization is illustrated in Exhibit B. Project
implementation units would be established in each of the four cities,
comprising staff responsible, on the one hand, for installing and implementing
the improvements in municipal finance and management and, on the other, for
overseeing the infrastructure components, i.e., negotiatirLg land purchase from
private land-owners; tendering and supervising small-scale project works;
monitoring implementation and maintaining project accounts; and supervising
operation and maintenance of project facilities.
3.04      Engineering and technical support for implementation of project
works will be provided to the municipalities by PWD. Its project Urban
Development Office will, with the assistance of consultants: (i) initiate,
supervise and monitor the purchase of privately-owned land; (ii) complete
detailed engineering and procurement documentation; (iii) supervise
procurement for and construction of all large and/or complex project works;
(iv) provide technical assistance to municipalities for works to be handled by
them; (v) monitor and advise the cities in the operation and maintenance of
project facilities; and (vi) assist in the preparation of future regional
cities infrastructure improvement.
3.05      DOLA will provide the municipalities with the necessary administra-
tive support through OUD. For the purpose of the project, its duties will



- 16 -
include: (i) monitoring of overall project progress; (ii) supervising and
monitoring of the program to strengthen municipal planning and financial
management, including the administration of related techncial assistance;
(iii) acquiring publicly-owned land required for project activities; (iv)
coordinating with the World Bank, including the processing of loan withdrawal
applications; and (v) planning for future regional cities development.
3.06      The proposed organization, staffing and responsibilities of each of
the above mentioned key project implementation units are detailed in Annex 9
and illustrated in Exhibit C. Staffing requirements to meet project implemen-
tation demands have been informally agreed with each of the cities as well as
with DOLA and PWD staff most closely associated with project preparation. An.
attempt has been made to minimize staffing requirements by the careful phasing
of project works, by allocating responsibilities among units in accordance
with their experience and comparative advantage, and by the use of consult-
ants. The minimum staffing requirements include 35 professionals for the DOLA
project unit, 22 professionals for the PWD unit and 7-10 professionals plus
4-15 technicans for each of the municipal project units (depending on size ofi
the city program) as well as clerical support. It should be possible to mini-
mize the hiring of additional staff through the transfer of suitably exper-
ienced staff from elsewhere in DOLA, PWD and the municipalities. In addition
to providing staff required for project management purposes, the PWD will also
second other staff, mainly junior engineers and technicians, to the consult-
ants' work forces for training in engineering design and project implementa-
tion.
3.07      In order to meet the project implementation schedule, approval has
been obtained from the Civil Service Commission and the Budget Bureau for the
proposed staffing levels and budget allocations (see Annex 9). During nego-
tiations, agreement was reached with the Government that suitably qualified
staff will be assigned to the project units in accordance with the following
timetable (see also Annex 9):
(a) prior to project effectiveness (i.e. by April 30, 1985) the DOLA
project unit, PWD project unit and municipal project units will be
fully staffed; and
(b) PWD will enfage the services of consultants to assist with project
management8 by June 30, 1985 and construction supervision and
operations and maintenance of project facilities by December 31,
1985.
3.08      The Government will ensure that project implementation units are
effectively coordinated by means of a project management unit in DOLA, and
that timely decisions are taken on project-related matters through the
establishment of a Project Steering Committee, chaired by the Permanent-
Secretary of MOI. The Director-General of DOLA has been appointed by the
8/   The project management assistance would be provided to both DOLA's and
PWD's project units.



- 17 -
Steering Committee as project director to supervise the activities of
subcommittees -for municipal, technical and provincial affairs, in turn
responsible for:  (i) overseeing, respectively, the DOLA, PW'D and municipal
project implementation units; (ii) providing policy guidance to them; and
(iii) approving major contract awards and progress payments.
C. Implementation Schedule
3.09      The project will be implemented over a six year petriod, October 1985
to April 1991, as illustrated in Exhibit D. Implementation preparations
including land acquisition and detailed engineering are ongoing and will be
aided by technical assistance funded by the Australian Government (para. 2.14)
and which will continue through 1986. Detailed engineering of the components
to be constructed during the first project year are substantially completed.
Land acquisition for the first year construction program was well advanced at
the time of negotiations (see para. 3.12).
D. Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
3.10      The prime responsibilities for operating and maint:aining municipal
services in the project cities will, as at present, lie with their engineering
and public health divisions. In the case of the Songkhla fishport, however,
responsibility for O&M will be delegated to a port operator through a leasing
agreement between the operator and the municipality. The large investments
through the project will increase O&M demands and the cities have agreed to
improve their O&M capabilities over the project period. Specific measures to
be taken, which will build upon improvements in O&M administration already
introduced during project preparation, include: (a) strengthening of O&M
organizations particularly in planning and scheduling and through provision of
vehicles equipment and workshop facilities; (b) provision o:Eadequate
maintenance budgets for the municipal infrastructure and reLated equipment and
vehicles; (c) training of management and staff in operation of wastewater and
solid waste facilities and maintenance of the project facilities. Training,
guidance and monitoring of municipal O&M performance will b-e carried out by
the PWD with consultant assistance. Agreement was reached at loan negotiation
that by October 1, 1987 each city will prepare an action program satisfactory
to the Bank for the improvement of their respective operations and maintenance
functions for roads, drainage and sanitation works.
E. Land Acquisition
3.11      Implementation of the project will require the acquisition of about
11 ha of privately-owned land and about 162 ha of publicly-owned land, at an
estimated cost of about $6.8 million. To carry out the land acquisition
program, the Government has established land acquisition teams in each of the
municipal, PWD and DOLA project implementation units which, supported by
consultants, manage, supervise and implement the process along defined func-
tional lines of responsibility. For privately-owned land, the municipalities
are responsible for direct negotiation with private land owners. However, to
ensure that this process does not become protracted and thus delay project
implementation, PWD has initiated statutory powers of expropriation for all
privately-owned land required for the project, which will be invoked should



- 18 -
voluntary negotiations be unsuccessful within an acceptable time limit. PWD
will also take responsibility for obtaining agreement with the State Railway
of Thailand for use of their right-of-way for location of various components
in three of the cities. DOLA will be responsible for acquiring all publicly-
owned land required for project purposes. In some cases this means negotia-
ting with government agencies for transfer of land owned by them. For several
large parcels, it will be necessary to change the legal status of land
belonging to a province and currently designated "for public use." DOLA will
also work closely with the NHA which has agreed to assist in making tenure
arrangements for families affected by the proposed slum improvement
components.
3.12      In order for construction to commence during Thai fiscal year 1986
(beginning October 1, 1985) in accordance with the project implementation
schedule, about 39 ha of public land will need to be acquired by that time.
The Government has therefore:
(a)  prepared a detailed land acquisition plan and initiated legislative
proceedings in respect of public lands and statutory expropriation
proceedings, including issuance of Royal Decrees, in respect of all
privately-owned lands to be acquired for project purposes (para.
3.11);
(b)  with respect to all lands required for the first year of project
implementation: (i) provided the necessary funds for this purpose
in the FY85 budget; and (ii) acquired a substantial portion (80%) of
this land and is at an advanced stage of negotiation for the
remainder.
F. Procurement
3.13      Two large civil works contracts for the construction of a fishport
and commercial/industrial zone in Songkhla costing $8.1 million and $2.7
million respectively, would be procured on the basis of ICB in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The balance of civil works construction, totalling about $23
million would consist of about 40 minor works contracts of estimated size
ranging from 2-50 million Baht ($70,000 to 1.9 million equivalent) each that



- 19 -
are unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders and, would be procured
follow ng local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) satisfactory to the
Bank.9   Equipment, including vehicles and furnishings, totalling about $0.8
million equivalent would be grouped in about 15 bidding packages valued less
than 4 million Baht ($150,000 equivalent) each and would be procured under LCB
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Miscellaneous items of equipment,
materials and small civil works under contracts valued at 400,000 Baht
($14,800) or less and up to an aggregate of 10 million Baht ($370,000) would
be procured following prudent shopping procedures satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank. Individual contracts and bidding packages for civil works
estimated to cost over 20 million Baht ($0.74 million) each and for equipment
estimated to cost over 5 million Baht ($185,000) each, totalling the
equivalent of about $24 million or 70% of the estimated total civil works and
equipment costs, would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The balance of
contracts will be subject to review by the Bank after their award.
9/   The contracts concerned are relatively uncomplicated municipal works
(e.g., road and drainage improvements) and scattered among the project
cities, which are located several hundred kilometers apart (see Exhibit
E). Foreign contractors are unlikely to compete successfully with the
relatively well developed Thai contracting industry under such
conditions. A similar lack of economy of scale applies to the project
equipment procurement which involves many different types of equipment
for the various cities (see Annex 2) which is available "off-the-shelf"
and should sensibly be acquired in phases over the project period. In
order to permit local construction firms in the regiorns concerned to
compete responsibly, the civil works to be procured under LCB provisions
will be sliced into contracts sized at about 10 million Baht ($370,000
equivalent) each and packaged for bidding purposes into groups of up to
five contracts (or more as convenient), which can be awarded singly or
jointly to the lowest responsive bidder(s).



- 20 -
Table III.1: ESTIMATED VALUE OF PROJECT PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND PROCUREMENT PROCEDURE /a
($ million)
-------------Procurement procedures--------------
------LCB -------              Not
Expenditure                           Open    Prudent                appli-  Total
category                    ICB     bidding  shopping  Other /c  cable   value
Civil works                 10.8      (22.7)      0.5                         34.0
(7.8)/b  (16.3)      (0.4)                      (24.5)
Equipment                               0.8                                    0.8
(0.7)                                  (0.7)
Land and project
administration                                                      8.4      8.4
(-)     (-)
Technical assistance:
Engineering services                                      5.8                5.8
(1.2)/d           (1.2)
Institutional
development                                               1.8                1.8
(1.1)/d           (1.1)
Totals                10.8       22.7        0.5       7.6       8.4    50.9
(7.8)    (16.3)      (0.4)    (2.3)    (-)    (27.5)
/a   Amounts shown include base costs (January 1985) and physical and price
contingencies.
/b   Amounts shown in parentheses are estimated disbursements from loan
proceeds.
/c   "Other" procurement procedures would apply to recruitment of consultants
in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
/d   Loan proceeds to be reallocated for institutional development component
purposes in the event that grant finance cannot be obtained by RTC from
external sources.
G. Disbursements
3.14      Disbursements under the proposed loan would be made as follows:
(a)  75% of expenditures for civil works;
(b)  100% of the foreign cost of directly imported equipment; 100% of ex-
factory costs of locally manufactured equipment and 65% for other
locally procured equipment; and
(c)  100% of expenditures for technical assistance (not financed from
grant sources).



- 21 -
3.15      All disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation
requirements. Conclusion of an agreement between FMO or other appropriate
authority and Songkhla municipality to enter into appropriate leasing arrange-
ments for the new port would be a condition of disbursement against construc-
tion of the fishport (para. 4.23).
3.16      In order to better ensure the timely provision of funds available to
finance the capital costs of the project, the Government will establish a
special account (revolving fund) under the proposed project. This would allow
advance payments from the loan for that portion of project expenditures which
would otherwise be financed directly by Government and subsequently reimbursed
by the Bank. In addition, disbursements against all contracts valued less
than $100,000 equivalent will be by statement of expenditure (SOE) procedure.
3.17      The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 10 along with
the country profile. It is expected that disbursements will be complteld by
September 30, 1991, about six months after completion of civil works. - The
disbursement period of six years is somewhat less than the country performance
of seven and a half years. Disbursements are expected to follow the country
performance closely in the earlier years but improve in the latter years. The
reasons for this expectation are: (a) good project momentum has built up dur-
ing the preparation period; (b) detailed engineering is well advanced and bid-
ding documents for the entire construction program will be available by the
end of 1985; (c) the PWD, which will help to execute a substantial portion of
the project, is experienced in execution of large projects; (d) the experience
gained during the earlier years by the project organization should facilitate
more rapid execution in the later years; and (e) the above mentioned special
account arrangements will advance about 5% of expected disbursements.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.18      Separate project accounts would be produced by DOLA for each of the
project cities from information supplied by the cities. Agreement was
obtained from Government at negotiations that (a) the project accounts will be
maintained accordingly; (b) adequate and timely working capital will be provi-
ded to finance the project; and (c) the project accounts and the accounts of
the four project cities would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Bank, with the audit reports submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year, commencing with Thai FY86. It was
confirmed during negotiations that the audits would be carried out by the
National Audit Council in cooperation with DOLAts Division of Local Finance,
as part of their normal audit procedures.
10/ It is expected that the loan proceeds will be fully disbursed within 5
years by virtue of the special account advance. However, disbursement
applications in support of the final drawdown of the special account are
expected to continue for a further year as shown in Annex 10.



- 22 -
I. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.19      Monitoring the progress of the project toward its physical, finan-
cial and institution building objectives will be through semi-annual reports
prepared by DOLA's project unit for project management purposes. The reports
will include relevant data on physical and financial progress in a format dis-
cussed and agreed during loan negotiations. Performance indictors, as listed
in the Project File (Annex 12) will serve as a basis for evaluating progress
toward the project objectives and will be reported periodically to the Bank.
Upon completion of the project MOI would prepare a completion report within
six months of the closing date of the loan.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Municipal Finances
4.01      Current Conditions.  The Municipal Revenue Act of 1954 establishes a
structure for municipal finance that has been largely unchanged over the last
twenty-eight years. Municipalities are empowered to collect and retain the
proceeds of four1 xes, i.e., house and rent, land development, sign and
slaughter taxes. - Among the four cities in the project, local taxes
contributed between 10-13% of total resources in 1981. Local non-tax revenues
act as equally important sources of revenue for municipalities, which include
fee, fine and permit revenue1v  well as revenues from locally-owned proper-
ties, municipal enterprises -   and other miscellaneous revenue.  Together the
tax and non-tax sources of local revenue accounted for about 25-34% of total
financial resources for the four project cities in 1981; this level is far
from adequate for any meaningful level of local financial autonomy. Table 1
in Annex 11 gives a summary of financial resources for the four project cities
in 1981.
4.02      To fund the balance of needed financial resources, municipalities
receive shares of and surcharges on national taxes collected centrally,
various types of grants from Central Government, loans from the Municipal
Development Fund and their own accummulated reserves. The distinction between
a shared and surcharge tax is that a shared tax is fully shared among
municipalities and local government organizations, while surcharges are addi-
tional taxes on revenues of the Central Government. The shared taxes include
the vehicle tax and the rice export tax. In the category of surcharges are
11/ The house and rent tax and the land development tax are two taxes on real
property, the former based on declared rental value of structures and the
latter based on assessed land values. The sign tax is a tax on the signs
of commercial or other profit-making enterprises or activities within
municipal boundaries. The slaughter tax is a tax on the slaughter of
meat animals.
12/ Such as pawnshops and water bureau operations.



- 23 -
additional taxes on business, liquor and beverages, entertainment, and petro-
leum and petroleum products refined in Thailand. Table 2, Annex 11 describes
the present arrangements for collection of shared and surcharge taxes and
their allocation procedures and criteria. The relative importance of these as
a source of revenue varies across cities because of the way the formulas have
been devised. For example, in 1981 shared and surcharge taxes provided 46% of
Chiang Mai's and 31% of Khon Kaen's total resources but only 19% of those of
Songkhla.
4.03      Central grants are of three kinds:  a standard per capita grant,
various types of grants for education and specific project grants. The per
capita grant was 50 Baht in 1981 and is allocated on the basis of population
statistics compiled by DOLA. It is the only unrestricted source of grant
revenue for the municipalities. Grants from the Central Government are mainly
for primary education, which made up 64-74% of all grants for the four cities
in 1981 and provide for both capital and recurring costs of education.
Specific project grants are based on proposals from municipalities for infra-
structure development, typically street, drain, bridge or public utility
construction. The maximum level of the grant available varies inversely with
the level of locally generated revenue. Where local revenue exceeds 15 mil-
lion Baht, as is the case with all four project cities hthe grant is at its
lowest level, now about 600,000 Baht in any one year.-   Issuance of this
grant depends on approval of the project proposal by DOLA and technical review
by PWD, if necessary.
4.04      Other resources available to municipalities are loans from the
Municipal Development Fund (MDF) or disbursements from their accumulated
reserves. Membership in the MDF is mandatory for all municipalities and
requires an annual subscription of 10% of each city's budget surplus. Budget
surpluses have been virtually guaranteed by budgetary regulations which stipu-
late that expenditures (net of those financed by grant) cannot exceed 97% of
estimated revenue (not including grantsj4 The balance of the budget surplus
goes into each municipality's reserves _ / which can be borrowed from
interest-free with permission of either the Mayor, Provincial Governor or MOI,
depending on the amount. For emergencies, the cities may be granted per-
mission to utilize funds from the reserves without repayment.
4.05      Municipalities can borrow for typical municipal works from the MDF
interest-free up to the amount each city has contributed. Above that amount,
up to a ceiling of ten times its contribution, a municipality can borrow at
concessional rates of interest. Loans must be approved by the Local Finance
Division of DOLA. The project cities' borrowings from MDF have been neglig-
ible in the past, reflecting, in part, their lack of financial capability to
13/ Representing about 1% of each of the four municipalities' budgets in
1981.
14/ Amounting to 90% of the 3% budget surplus or about 2.7% of total sources
of funds, which is not sufficient to provide financing for any meaningful
level of capital works.



- 24 -
service the associated debt. Table 3, Annex 11 shows the status of the MDF
accounts for the four cities as of end FY81, and Table 4 gives the statement
of financial position for the Fund. Currently, the funds available are
inadequate to finance any significant amount of capital investment. Given the
expected improvements in locally generated revenues as a result of efforts
undertaken through the project, it is envisaged that requests for loans from
MDF would increase in the future. Under the project, a study would be under-
taken to examine the requirements for an expanded MDF, which would include a
review of possible additional sources of funds, an appropriate interest rate
structure to ensure MDF's financial viability, appropriate evaluation cri-
teria, and staffing and training requirements. Terms of reference for the
study were discussed and agreed during appraisal, and the study is currently
underway.
4.06      A breakdown of sources of funds for the four municipalities during
1977-82 is presented in Tables 5-8, Annex 11, and Tables 13-16 summarize the
statements of revenue expenditures over the same period. From these it can be
seen that the fiscal base of these cities is extremely weak with local
resources being insufficient to finance even the recurring costs of municipal
government. To make up for this inadequacy, the Central Government has chosen
to directly subsidize municipalities with tax shares and grants rather than
address the underlying deficiencies of the tax system or raise the level of
charge for fees. Tax rates and ceilings on fees, fines and permits are deter-
mined by the Central Government and have remained essentially unchanged for
the last twenty years. This financial dependency of municipalities on the
Central Government is complex. The cities depend on the Central Government
for decisions on the availability of funds and, in the case of most grants,
for decisions about how the funds will be spent. This relationship is main-
tained by a structure of laws and regulations.
4.07      Expenditures for salaries, wages and general administration have
been growing faster than local revenues over 1977-81 for most of the cities,
due mainly to the fact that the levels and rates of local revenue sources have
not been permitted to increase, whereas wage levels and the number of muni-
cipal employees have. For example in Chiang Mai, these expenditures have
increased at about 19% per year, on average, over the period whereas local
revenues have increased at only about 7% per year. In addition, the main
sources of local taxes, the two property taxes, are inefficiently administered
with many legally-liable property owners not taxed, and those properties which
are taxed are levied on the basis of grossly underassessed values. It is dif-
ficult to estimate accurately the efficiency of municipalities in collecting
these taxes, due primarily to a reliance on self-assessments by the property
owners and lack of tax records H,check payments by owners from year-to-
year.  Estimates by consultants-   indicate that delinquent taxes as a
percentage of total house and rent taxes actually assessed ranged from 4-33%
for the four cities as of end-1981, with the number of delinquent taxpayers
ranging from an estimated 8-26% over the same period. This level of delin-
quency, however, does not take into account the number of potential taxpayers
15/ Multinational Management Ltd.



- 25 -
who are not currently being assessed. In addition, numerous exemptions in the
tax Igy s relieve the majority of property owners from paying any tax at
all.L
4.08      Action Program.  The need to strengthen the administration and
financial capacity of the project cities, other municipalities and local
government bodies was recognized by Government at the onset as part of a
meaningful regional cities development program. The Fifth National Economic
and Social Development Plan stipulates that more emphasis will be placed on
the role of the localities in the national economy by giving them more power
in collecting taxes in o7der to increase their revenues. To this end, two
complementary studies -    were commissioned by MOI in cooperation with the
four project cities to develop a strategy to increase revenues at the local
level and to design and assist in implementing improved planning, programming
and budgeting practices and accounting systems to provide a basis for improved
financial management. The revenue strategy,concentrated on measures within
the jurisdiction of local governments. The recommendations emphasized the
importance of improving the municipalities' efficiency in assessing and col-
lecting the main sources of local taxation. The studies, based on sample
surveys, have identified potential increases in local property taxes of over
200% during the project period as a result of a more efficient collection
system and use of up-to-date records and valuations. In addition, the studies
identified the need to increase fee, fine and permit revenue and have recom-
mended that the ceilings on these charges be increased substantially to allow
for more periodic increases of these fees in the future.
4.09      Serious review by local and central officials has been given to the
various findings of these studies, and their suggestions and concerns have
been taken into account in the final recommendations. Training seminars for
selected municipal and central government officials have already been held
regarding improvements to the system of property taxation. A coordinated pro-
gram is now being undertaken by MOI, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the
Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA), with financial support from the
Bank's first structural adjustment loan, to prepare work manuals and provide a
task force to assist in the development/updating of tax maps and tax rolls as
well as updating assessments for all of Thailand's 122 municipalities (includ-
16/ The problems with the system of taxation and valuation of real property
in Thailand are discussed more fully in Valuation and Taxation of Real
Property, Horrigan, Wilkinson and Associates (see footnote 17).
/17 Study on Valuation and Taxation of Real Property, Horrigan, Wilkinson and
Associates (Australia); Study on Municipal Finance and Administration,
Multinational Management Ltd. and National Institute of Development
Administration (Thailand). Both studies were included as part of the
second Bank-supported shelter project and financed by UNDP (available in
Project Files, see Annex 12).



- 26 -
ing the project cities) as well as for the BMA.18/ During the interval
between project appraisal and negotiations, this work has nearly been
completed, and agreement was obtained at negotiations that this program wouldc
continue to be carried out in consultation with the Bank. Concurrently, the
Public Health law has been amended to increase the ceiling of the fee for
solid waste collection by ten-fold to permit substantial increases of this
charge in the municipalities.
4.10      For the proposed reforms which will address accounting, planning and
budgeting deficiencies, agreement was obtairqed during appraisal that the
following would be incorporated into the new accounting and budgeting systems
to be installed under the technical assistance program and which are now
essentially complete:
(a) a clear distinction between recurrent and capital revenues and
expenditures;
(b) the concept of "responsibility centers" will be introduced into the
accounts which classifies expenditure and revenue, where appro-
priate, by organizational unit as well as municipal activity so as
to facilitate the setting of charges to better ensure appropriate
cost recovery;
(c) medium-term (5 year) rolling plans to be discussed with the Bank
will be developed consistent with the budgeting and accounting
systems; and
(d) a comparison between actual performance with that budgeted will be
incorporated into the reports which are prepared for each city's
Executive Committee.
4.11      Project impact on municipal budgets.  Detailed projections of reve-
nue sources for the four cities for the period 1983-88 are given in Tables 9-
12, Annex 11, and summaries of the statements of revenue and expenditure for
the same period are given in Tables 13-16. The level of capital investment
required for the implementation of the project exceeds the capacity of the
cities to finance this entirely from current revenues or available reserves,
and thus the cities would need to borrow to 'supplement the contributions from
their development budgets to finance their share of project cost and obtain
grant support for the remainder. Each city's share of loans, contributions
from development budgets and grants was determined giving consideration to
additional revenues arising from the tax reform measures to be implemented
over the project period as well as any revenues that would be generated by the
project components themselves and the estimated incremental project recurring
costs. The central authorities are responsible for arranging the required
loans on behalf of the cities at the best available terms. These include
/18 Steps to extend this support to other local government bodies are under
preparation for a subsequent phase to be supported under the second
structural adjustment loan.



- 27 -
borrowings arranged by MOI of (a) B 50 million from the Municipal Development
Fund at 4-7% interest for 13 years including 3 years o  grace; and (b) B 50
million from the Sanitary District Development Fund 1' at 10% interest for 15
years including 5 years of grace. The balance of B 112 million is currently
being arranged by MOF and is expected to be firmed up soon. For each city,
the loan amounts vary - from about 13% of project cost in Songkhla to about
23% in Chiang Mai - reflecting the differences in relative project size and
respective abilities to pay. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that
the cities would provide sufficient funds to carry out their respective shares
of the project and would provide sufficient funds from their annual budgets
for the repayment of loans.
4.12      Although the projected revenue improvements are considered a
significant step forward, it is recognized that strengthening local government
finances so that a greater proportion of total revenues are generated locally
will be a very gradual and long-term process. To illustrate, the proportion
of local taxes to total resources (excluding project resources) is expected to
increase from 9-14% currently to about 18-29% by 1988 but even when combined
with other local non-tax revenues would still represent a smaller proportion
of total revenue than grants and the centrally administered shared and sur-
charge taxes.
4.13      The remaining sources of funds for the project will be provided by
the Central Government from the proceeds of the Bank loan passed on as grants
together with additional specific project grants from the Central Government.
Within the constraints of intergovernmental finance, the importance of r
ional cities development fully justifies the level of grant: assistance.2_
The fact that the municipalities will be accepting shared responsibility for
their development programs, rather than mainly relying on c:entral transfers as
in the past, is considered to be an important first step. Agreement was
obtained during negotiations that the Government would provide the necessary
counterpart financing for the project in a timely manner on the terms des-
cribed above.
4.14      In order to ensure that vehicles and equipment being financed under
the project would be properly maintained, agreement was obtained during nego-
tiations that RTG would ensure that adequate funds necessary for repairs and
renewals would be provided in a timely manner.
4.15      Long-term strategy for local revenue improvement.  The measures
initiated and supported by the project and the structural adjustment loans are
a significant beginning to the long-term process of legislative and
administrative reform necessary for strengthening local government finances.
They also underscore the important commitment by both central and local
governments to that process. The reLated improvements in property tax
19/ A source of funds being utilized by the cities for the first time.
20/ The counterpart funds required from Central Government for the first year
(1984) of the project represent about 0.06% of its overall budget.



- 28 -
administration and municipal financial administration to be undertaken through
the project are designed to enable municipalities to manage and monitor their
affairs more efficiently. Local governments must demonstrate that they can
carry out their current functions better before they can be given greater
local autonomy.
4.16      An appropriate strategy for the Bank's future involvement in this
process would be to continue to work with Government to develop initiatives
and measures for improvement in the administration and collection of local
revenues. The broad goals for further work in this area include: (i) con-
tinued rationalization and reform of property taxation; (ii) continued support
for the improvement of local financial management; (iii) improved cost
recovery for municipal services; (iv) a shift in emphasis from centrally
administered to local sources of finance, with grants based on relative local.
needs and tax collection effort; and (v) a greater use of loan financing for
capital works. The Bank's role in supporting and encouraging the study and
strengthening of the Municipal 9evelopment Fund and the establishment of a
National Valuation Authority,21 which would be a focus for further improve-
ment in the field of property taxation, is expected to contribute in a posi-
tive way to these goals. Also, a proposed future project with the Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration is expected to build upon the momentum gained in
this project in Thailand's largest urban area. In addition, further work is
currently being undertaken by government and its consultants to consider the
present system of distributing shared and surcharge taxes and grants to locaIl.
governments. A concomitant goal of Government is to support reform in all
municipalities as well as other tiers of local government, which is an import:-
ant step toward increasing the share of urban development expenditures funded
from local sources. The financing plans of any subsequent regional cities
projects are envisaged to reflect improvement along these lines.
B. Cost Recovery and Service Pricing
4.17      Currently, investment costs incurred by municipalities are primarily
financed from central transfers (shares and surcharge taxes and grants) and
are not seen to be recovered from beneficiaries since overall local tax and
nontax revenues are insufficient to meet even normal recurring expenditures,
although varying degrees of cost recovery exist for some individual municipal
services. In this project, many components are unsuitable candidates for
direct cost recovery because beneficiaries and the value of individual bene-
fits are, in general, impossible to identify; the imposition and collection of
benefit charges would not be a cost-effective way of raising revenues; or
21/ Being addressed through the proposed Land Titling Project due to be
presented to the Board in January 1984.



- 29 -
because services are traditionally hnd appropriately provided by the cities
and funded from general revenues.-    This applies to drainage and sanitation,
roads and bridges, and maintenance equipment included in the project, which
together amount to about 68% of total investment cost.
4.18      Revenue-earning facilities in the project include a fishport and
adjacent commercial/industrial zone in Songkhla, which represents about 27% of
total investment cost. The full cost of the development would be recovered
through various lease payments to the municipality. The old port, which is
highly congested and polluted, is currently owned and operated by the Fish
Marketing Organization (FMO) but located on city-owned land, situated in the
heart of the city's commercial district. The FMO has agreed in principle to
close down this port subject to adequate compensation by Songkhla municipality
and operate the proposed city-owned port. Songkhla municipality would be
responsible for operating the commercial/industrial zone and would lease the
operation of the port to FMO or other suitable operator. Further study of
this investment will be carried out during implementation to firm up the
marketing and operating arrangements (para. 2.06).
4.19      Impact on the Fish Marketing Organization.  For the existing, FMO
port, revenue from port charges is greater than current operating expenditures
including an allowance for capital depreciation. Table 17, Annex 11 summar-
izes the income statements for the Songkhla FMO port for the last three years.
4.20      For the new port, FMO, if selected as the lessee, is also expected
to earn a significant profit on its operation. Revenues are estimated to be
derived mainly from fish landing fees and fees for use of ice, fuel, auction
and other facilities. In addition, FMO is expected to sub-let a portion of
the harbor area for related activities such as packing for export. The fish
landing fees have been estimated on the assumption that there will be no
growth in total fish landings of trash and table fish over the project period,
based on the consultants' finding that total catches from the Gulf area are
expected to remain fairly stable. Landing fees are assumed to increase by
about 25% every three years, in line with current practice.
4.21      The analysis assumes that FMO would lease the port and associated
facilities and would be responsible for maintenance of the same harbor faci-
lities at the new port which it currently maintains at the old port, that are
to be specified in the leasing arrangements. In the event: that another lessee
is selected, the analysis is expected to indicate similar results. Although
the terms of the lease between the selected operator and 'Songkhla municipality
are not expected to be firmed up until construction is unclerway, the expected
profit is considered to be more than sufficient to provide for adequate lease
payments to the municipality and proper maintenance of the facilities. The
conclusion of an agreement satisfactory to the Bank between the Songkhla
Municipality, FMO and, as appropriate, the new port operat;or covering: (i)
the closure of the existing FMO port; (ii) the operation and maintenance of
22/ Which is consistent with local government practice in many countries
throughout the world.



- 30 -
the new port; and (iii) the lease fee determination principles will be a
condition of disbursement against construction of the fishport, and agreement
was reached on this condition during negotiations. Table 18, Annex 11
summarizes the expected income position of FMO's operation of the new
fishport.
4.22      Impact on Songkhla Municipality.  Project revenues to Songkhla
municipality from the fishport investment and adjacent commercial/industrial
zone were estimated at appraisal to be derived from: (a) lease fees from FMO
or other appropriate authority which will operate the port; (b) lease fees
from the commercial/industrial plots; and (c) lease fees from businesses which
are expected to locate on the land released by removal of the old fishport.
4.23      Lease fees from the industrial plots were estimated on an expected
3-year start-up period and market values of about 1.60 million baht per rai,
based on market surveys conducted in 1984. The industrial plots are expected
to have long-term lease arrangements requiring downpayments equivalent to 70%
of the market value of the plot with an annual lease fee amounting to about 8%'
of market value, in line with current practice in Thailand. The commercial
plots, with a current market value of 4.48 million baht per rai, are expected
to have long-term lease arrangements requiring downpayments of 80% of the
market value of the plot with an annual lease amounting to about 3.3% of
initial payment. The businesses locating in the present port area following
completion of the new port are expected to lease the plots on a yearly basis,
with leases at 10% of market values. Market values at the old port area are
estimated at 3.85 million baht/rai, based on market surveys conducted in
1984. Future lease fees from the port operator have been estimated at 4.50
million baht per year for the first three years of operation with increases of
25% every three years. Agreement was reached at negotiations tha the
municipality will prepare a plan for the marketing and operation of the
commercial/industrial zone by December 31, 1985.
4.24      Based on these assumptions, the internal financial rate of return,
which considers all development costs, to Songkhla municipality was estimated
to be about 10% for the project. Table 19, Annex 11 summarizes the calcula-
tion of the internalifinancial rate of return for this project.
4.25      The slum improvement components, which represent about 5% of total
investment cost, typically include the provision of roads and walkways, fire
fighting equipment, waste recepticles and push carts, drainage improvements,
improvements to water pipes and the public lighting system, and house
connections to electricity and water supply in unconnected areas. Direct cost
recovery is inappropriate and would not be employed         this component as it
has proved to be infeasible under previous projects          The approach adopted
has been to pursue cost recovery for these types of works on an indirect basis
through improvement in general revenues at the local level. As mentioned
before, implementation of measures to improve collection of local taxes will
23/ For full discussion of issues and recommendations, see Thailand National
Sites and Services Project, SAR, Report No. 2879-TH, pp. 36-38.



- 31 -
be undertaken through the project, but the improvements are expected to have
only a modest impact on municipal budgets in the near term. Utility charges
would provide for cost recovery of water supply and electricity improvements
in the slums in line with levels elsewhere in the communities.
4.26      The four municipalities being addressed under the project do not, in
general, keep accounting records that identify the costs associated with the
provision of the various services, which may typically involve inputs from
several municipal departments. Through the project, the accounting systems
will be improved as described in para. 4.10 so that all costs associated with
the provision of individual services will be separately accounted for. This
is expected to demonstrate to the cities the level of cost recovery currently
employed and to provide the basis for setting the various fees and user
charges more in line with actual costs incurred.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Sectoral Benefits
5.01      The project would support the Government's regional development
strategy by providing an improved infrastructural base and strengthening
municipal administration to support growing economic opportunities in four
important cities. The project has been prepared through close collaboration
among the central and local government authorities concerned, ensuring strong
commitment to its comprehensive objectives. In addition to strengthening the
principal institutions responsible for municipal services, the technical
assistance and training provided through the project would support improve-
ments in local taxation and other revenue generation in all municipalities
nation-wide. The fiscal improvements form an important part of an action
program of municipal finance reform initiated during project preparations and
supported by two structural adjustment loans.
B. Economic Justification
5.02      The project would provide improvements to infrastructure and better
environmental conditions affecting 450,000 people in the four cities'
municipal areas. The main benefits included in the economic analysis are sum-
marized below. Drainage and flood control improvement benefits would result
from the relief of severe seasonal flooding and local flash flooding in over
15 sq km of residential and commercial areas. Primary and secondary drainage
works have been designed to eliminate or reduce property damage and disruption
to transportation. Wastewater sewers and treatment facilities together with
secondary drainage improvements will help to alleviate water pollution. Solid
waste systems including new equipment, disposal facilities and better manage-
ment would provide benefits through expanded coverage to about 80% of total
demand and reduced collection costs. The substantial social benefits of the
wastewater and solid waste improvements have not been estimated due to the
difficulty of quantifying such benefits.



- 32 -
5.03      Road and intersection improvements are designed to improve traffic
flows on heavily travelled routes and would reduce congestion and improve
access in the cities' central business districts. River bridges in Chiang Mai
would improve intra-city access capacity as well as access to newly developing
areas. Benefits would be derived from reduced vehicle operating costs, the
value of travel time saved and, in some cases, reduced travel distances. A
riverfront development component in Chiang Mai would integrate much needed
road, market, parking and recreation space improvements which would reduce
road congestion and improve environmental conditions in an important com-
mercial and tourism area of the city. The substantial benefits derived from
the road improvement element have been included in the urban transport
component evaluation. The combined fishport and commercial/industrial zone
development in Songkhla would derive benefits from: (i) the economic value of
the reclaimed land which would provide about 16 ha for commercial and
industrial development, excluding the port area itself; (ii) cost savings
through improved efficiency of fish landing and handling operations in the
port area; and (iii) the economic value of land released for redevelopment of
potentially valuable commercial and tourism areas of the city presently con-
strained by the existing, noisome fish landing facilities.
5.05      Slum improvement components would improve walkways, drainage, solid
waste collection and water supply benefitting about 1,750 households in
relatively low-income areas. The benefits have beeen estimated as the
difference between imputed rental values of improved and unimproved areas
based upon experience with Bangkok slum improvements in the two Bank-supported
shelter projects (para. 1.08).
Table V.1: SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN BY PROJECT COMPONENT AND BY CITY
All cities   Overall
Chiang    Khon       Nakhon                (weighted    poverty
Component                Mai        Kaen    Ratchasima  Songkhla  average)         content/a
Drainage & sanitation        52       17         24           30        25          49
Roads                        32       56         56           45        45          43
Bridges                      32                                         33          52
Fishport/industrial
zone                                                        18        18          50
Slum improvement             13                  13           13        13          37
Solid waste                           16         13           13        14          44
All components
(weighted average)        33        29         37           23        30          46
/a   Percentage of component expenditures estimated to benefit households with income less
than B 3500/month.



- 33 -
5.06       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 25%: for drainage and
flood control components, 14% for solid waste disposal, 45% for roads, 33% for
bridges, 18% for the Songkhla fishport and commercial/industrial zone, and 13%
for slum improvement. The weighted average economic rate of- return for all
components is 30%. The quantified economic rates of return are summarized in
Table V.1 above by component and by city. The foreign exchainge component was
shadow priced at 10O%, while the market rates were considered to reflect mar-
ket conditions adequately for the labor component. In calculiating the ERRs,
benefits have been estimated conservatively, (e.g., taking benefits through to
the year 2001 and not the usual 20-25 year period). Even with these
assumptions, a sensitivity analysis shows that a 20% adverse! change in cost or
benefits would, in virtually all cases, reduce the ERR by olnly 4-6%, thus
still providing a reasonable return. The ERR for the Songkhila solid waste
component would, under either of the adverse changes, fall below 10%, however,
this component is acceptable on the merits of its social and environmental
benefits. Details of the economic analysis are provided in Annex 13.
C. Social Impacts
Urban Poverty
5.07       The needs of the urban poor are addressed in part by all project
components; the poverty content of individual components ranging from 24-
66%. The poverty impact of this project is considered to be significant based
upon both the relatively high incidence of poverty in the chosen project
cities and the overall high poverty content of the respective project com-
ponents (see Annex 13).
Employment
5.08       The project would be expected to create approximately 8,000 man-
years of employment during the five-year construction period. Although many
of the workers will be skilled and semi-skilled, the majority of the construc-
tion employees will be unskilled laborers most of whom are expected to be
recruited from the regions concerned. 24~e widespread employment of women
throughout the work force in Thailand-   will mean that, as a group, women
will share to a large extent in the employment created by the project both in
construction and industry. In addition, it is estimated that up to 800 new,
permanent jobs could be created through operation and maintenance of the
various components concerned. Details of the foregoing estimates are avail-
able from the project file (Annex 12).
24/ According to NESDB estimates, 50% of the total work force and 40% of the
industrial work force is composed of women. The use cof female labor in
construction, particularly during agricultural slack sieasons, is common-
place in Thailand.



- 34 -
D. Environmental Impact
5.09      The project is expected to have a substantial net positive environ-
mental impact. The municipal infrastructure and the municipal revenue-earning
services are designed specifically to improve environmental conditions,
especially improved water quality and reduced disease risks in the project
cities. The wastewater management and solid waste management related compo-
nents are also expected to lead to improved sectoral efficiency and wider
application of pollution control measures throughout local governments in
Thailand.
E. Project Risks
5.10      The main risks in the project lie in:  (i) an untested implementa-
tion capacity in relation to the magnitude of the project; and (ii) the
uncertainty of the cities' ability to achieve adequate revenue improvements in
order to repay project loans and provide for increased recurrent expenditure
budgets. In order to minimize the risk of inadequate revenue improvements in
the project cities, the MOI and MOF have established a permanent unit to
assist with implementation and monitoring of improvement measures. In addi-
tion, preparations to address revenues improvements are well advanced and
funding to undertake the necessary steps has already been obtained.
5.11      The principal implementation risk is related to land acquisition
which has delayed progress and increased costs in several previous Thailand
projects. To reduce this risk, negotiations for land needed for commencing
construction during the first year of the implementation program have been
substantially completed and expropriation proceedings have been initiated.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Government will cause the project
executing agencies to acquire all land and rights in respect of land required
for the proposed project.
5.12      A further implementation risk is the managerial capability of the
project organization units to carry out a project larger and more complex
(from a logistical standpoint) than any undertaken by them previously. This
risk should be considerably reduced in view of the specific organization and
staffing arrangements to be established by the MOI and the technical
assistance already obtained (para. 2.10).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements at Loan Negotiations
6.01      Agreement was reached between the Bank and the Government at the
time of loan negotiations on the following points:
(a) adequate staffing of the project units in DOLA, PWD and the
muncipalities to be provided in accordance with an agreed timetable
(para. 3.07);



- 35 -
(b) an action program for improvement of operations and maintenance by
the project municipalities to be discussed with the Bank by
October 1, 1987 (para. 3.10);
(c) DOLA to maintain project accounts, ensure that such accounts are
audited and provide statements on an annual basis (para. 3.18);
(d) DOLA to monitor procurement, withdrawal applications and implementa-
tion progress of project (para. 3.05);
(e) MOF and MOI to continue to carry out improvements to the property
tax system in consultation with the Bank: (para. 4.09);
(f)  borrower to ensure that each project municipality would provide
sufficient funds to carry out their respective shares of the project
and would provide sufficient funds from their annual budgets for the
repayment of loans (para. 4.11);
(g) borrower to provide the required counterpart financing for the
project in a timely manner on suitable terms (para. 4.13);
(h) an agreement between Songkhla Municipality and the FMO or other
appropriate organization to be made by June 30, 1,986 (para. 4.21);
and
Ci) a plan for the marketing and operation of the SorLgkhla fishport-
related commercial/industrial zone to be provided by
December 31, 1985 (para. 4.23).
Conditions for Loan Effectiveness
6.02      Loan effectiveness would be contingent upon conclusion of agreements
satisfactory to the Bank between MOF and MOI, and MOI and the project munici-
palities establishing the project financing and implementation arrangements
(paras. 3.06, 3.07 and 4.11).
Condition for Disbursement
6.03      Disbursement against the Songkhla Fishport construction would be
contingent upon signing of the lease agreement referred to in 6.01(h) above.
Recommendation
6.04      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$27.5 million.  The
loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years grace at the standard
variable interest rate. The Borrower will be the Royal Thai Government.



- 36 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Cities
Background
1.        The four project cities' urban development patterns exhibit distinc-
tive characteristics. Although several of the cities are quite old, their
growth has been heavily influenced by the establishment of the contemporary
system of government and the improvement of Thailand's transportation system
during recent decades. Each city now has good transport and communication
linkages within its region and has thereby developed as a marketing center,
particularly for agricultural produce and goods. As provincial capitals, the
cities offer a range of government offices and other public services, espe-
cially educational and health facilities, for a wider hinterland. Nakhon
Ratchasima, the "gateway to the Northeast," has a strong business and commer-
cial base. Until the early 1970s, it served as a base for US military forces;
their withdrawal, although replaced by the Thai military, led to a mild local
recession. Khon Kaen, in the heart of the Northeast, benefited from rela-
tively extensive public investments under the Third National Development Plan
(including a new airport, television station and university), but concommitant
improvements were not made in infrastructure. Chiang Mai, Thailand's second
largest city, is the North's main service center, with an atypically wide
range of educational, medical and commerical services; it is also a resort
attracting both Thai and foreign tourists. In the South, Songkhla is the
provincial administrative capital, otherwise it is dependent on the fishing
industry as its main economic activity and a new deep-sea port, to be financed
by the Asian Development Bank, is planned there. None of the cities are
industrial centers, but all have a wide range of small-scale manufacturing and
service enterprises.
2.        Selection Process.  The approach used to select the cities was
essentially pragmatic. In 1970 only five cities, excluding Bangkok, had a
population exceeding 50,000. By 1980 this had increased to eleven but none
could be considered so dynamic as to be labelled potential growth poles, in
the conventional sense, due to lack of a dense-enough hinterland population
and the overwelming dominance of Bangkok's agglomeration economies. The main
criteria used to establish the project cities' priority as regional develop-
ment centers were economic growth potential and interregional equity consid-
erations. Anticipated resource constraints and a desire on the part of the
government to proceed cautiously, limited the initial selection to five from a
possible ten centers. The relative inequities evident between regions dic-
tated the political choice of at least one center in each of the three
peripheral regions, with two in the poorest (the Northeast) and none in the
comparatively wealthy Central region.
3.        A wide variety of economic and social indicators were compared for
the nine potential growth centers in the regions selected by the government as



- 37 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 2
candidates./l The final choice, however, was a highly judgmental trade-off
between efficiency and equity concerns in order to balance prospects for suc-
cess against evident needs. In the event, Hat Yai and nearby poorer Songkhla
were both chosen for the southern region by virtue of their perceived superior
regional impact potential as complementary economic units. Chiang Mai, was an
obvious choice over the other northern competitor as a potentially burgeoning
metropolis. The Northeast Region presented the greatest quandry, however the
choice was made for Korat and Khon Kaen on the grounds that an important
development axis might be created between them and which could ultimately link
with the proposed Eastern Seaboard development; a theory since cast in doubt
by the recently completed Eastern Seaboard Regional Planning Study but not
conclusively disproven. Some key characteristics of the selected cities are
given in the following Table.
Table Al: CITY CHARACTERISTICS
Chiang       Khon
Characteristic                          Mai         Kaen       Korat      Songkhla
Municipal population (1981)          101,000/a   100,000    89,000          76,000
Mun. population growth rate
(% p.a.)                               1.5/b       n.a.        1.4/b         3.6
DTCP planning area pop. (1981)/c   164,000        110,000   177,000         86,000
Urban population growth rate             2.8          4.4        2.7           4.3
Municipal area (sq km)                  17.5/a       46.0        7.4           9.6
DTCP planning area (sq km)              63.0         46.0       40.2          32.6
Household income (median),
Baht/month                           4,200        3,500      4,900         2,600
Percent households below poverty
level of 2,000 baht/month               18           28         11            33
n.a. = not available
/a   The municipal boundary of Chiang Mai was amended in June 1983 and the
municipal area expanded to 40 sq km including an estimated 164,000 people
in total.
/b   Growth rates within municipal area awaiting boundary expansions.
7i   Urban and peri-urban areas within boundaries defined by DTCP.
1/   Three in the south (Hat Yai, Songkhla and Phuket); two in the north
(Chiang Mai and Phisanulok); and four in the Northeast (Ubon, Udorn,
Korat and Khon Kaen). A further center, Chonburi in the East-Central
region, was included in the Eastern Seaboard Regional Planning Area. See
Bank sector study, "The Development of Regional Cities in Thailand",
June 30, 1980, (Chapter 4) for full details.



- 38 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 3
4.        Recognizing the arbitrary nature of the selection method the govern-
ment has subjected the selected cities to careful study over a four year pro-
cess of prefeasbility and feasibility studies as well as allied studies of
municipal administration and fiscal reform. The outcome limited the project
scope to four cities; the fifth, Hat Yai, choosing not to participate in the
investment phase. The measured approach adopted by the government and the
close collaboration among the agencies and cities concerned using conventiona.L
administrative channels has served to build a solid institutional framework
and accumulated considerable momentum for the project. Most important, the
participating cities themselves have clearly expressed strong support for the
project and are eager to implement it, thus the project is progressing well
toward its goal as a feasible undertaking.
5.        It is recognized by the government that future phases of any further
regional cities development should also take into consideration such questions
as sharper regional focus, lower-tier city priorities and greater economic
emphasis, as well as continuity in the programs of the initial-round cities,
as factors in the selection process. It is also recognized that such choices
will be simplified given that the basic development concept can be
demonstrated as sound by virtue of a successful first step.



- 39 -                               ANNEX 2
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment Procurement List
Units required by city
Khon                       Unit: cost   Base cost
Korat  Kaen  Songkhla    Total    (UJS$)        (US$ '000)
Maintenance Equipment
Bulldozer, 140 hp
with blade                -     1        -         1      85,000            85
Roller, vibrating
1-1.5 ton                -      1        -         1      27,500            28
Dump truck - 3 cu m
150-160 hp               -      2        -         2      21,000           42
Tractor, rubber-tire,
60 hp with 0.8-1.0
cu m front bucket        -      1        -         1      21,000            21
Solid Waste Equipment
Crawler compactor 120-
130 hp with bucket       1      1        1        3       90,000          270
Collection truck,
10 cu m capacity        12      7        2       21       18,500          389
Miscellaneous tools
and equipment                                                              150
Total Cost                                                              985



- 40 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage and Sanitation Component Summary
1.        Drainage and flood protection in the cities presently caters inade-
quately for stormwater run-off and wastewater discharges from adjoining lands
and properties. Wastewater forms approximately 1% of peak wet weather dis-
charges but is the chief constituent of dry weather flow. Existing drainage
is deficient in many areas of the cities due to inadequate provision or capa-
city and poor condition. In some instances the water courses concerned also
serve an irrigation function. Maintenance of the drainage system in all
cities is carried out to some extent but could be usefully strengthened. An
important contribution, to improved maintenance has been made through the
inventory of the cities drainage systems during project preparation.
2.        Drainage improvements have been designed to address two main
priorities: (a) reduction in flooding; and (b) better dry-weather flow
through elimination of discontinuities and replacement of inadequate portions
of the existing pipe and channel system including key macro and micro ele-
ments. Improvement of dry weather flows to avoid stagnant, foetid conditions,
is constrained by the extremely flat topography characteristic of most parts
of the cities. Flushing of drains during dry-weather periods is proposed in
certain instances (Chiang Mai) but in other cases relies on improved hydraulic
conditions and better maintenance.
3.        Sanitation in the context of the project cities concerns domestic
and industrial wastes, both liquid and solid. Domestic liquid waste (sewage)
is almost universally dealt with in the cities by means of on-plot, pour-
flush, squat-plate leaching pits for body waste disposal and the direct dis-
charge of kitchen/laundry waste (sullage) to street drains. Industrial
effluent disposal follows similar practice although in the case of some larger
industries and institutions, on-site treatment plants are used. On-plot
leaching pit systems commonly fail through poor soil permeability, either
natural or induced by poor operating practices, (usually inadequate desludg-
ing), leading to unsanitary or obnoxious environmental conditions. House-
holders often avoid the desludging nuisence by connecting (illegally) an over-
flow from their pit or tank to the street drain. Industrial and institutions'
treatment plants are often ineffective. The result is widespread, often heavy
pollution of drains and water courses particularly during dry weather periods.
4.        Where inadequate natural purification capacity exists in water
courses downstream of the urban areas considerable nuisance is created to
water users (e.g., Korat) and potential permanent damage to water bodies
through eutrophication may occur (e.g, Khon Kaen). As an initial step in two
cities (Khon Kaen and Korat) where pollution problems are most acute it is
proposed to divert dry weather wastewater flows by means of interceptor sewers
laid alongside the most affected waterways. Where inadequate receiving water



- 41 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 2
capacity exists (Khon Kaen and Korat) it is also proposed to treat the inter-
ceptor waste water in stabilization ponds to conform to Thai Class 3 effluent
standards.
5.        Solid Waste Management is problematic in three project cities, Khon
Kaen, Korat and Songkhla. All three cities urgently require new landfill
disposal facilities and Khon Kaen and Korat need major improvement of their
collection systems in terms of both management and equipment. It was esti-
mated that only about 60-75% of the solid waste generated by each city is pre-
sently collected. Collection of more than 80%, however is thought not to be
cost effective due to the low density of development in outlying areas, where
local disposal by burning or burying is preferred. Improved collection
routing and scheduling will be implemented in each city to improve efficiency
and additional collection equipment (trucks, bins, etc.) procured to further
improve coverage to the appropriate level. Garaging and vehicle maintenance
facilities will be provided. Sanitary landfill techniques will be introduced
at the new landfill sites to replace the former open dumping practiced by the
cities.
Summary of Components
6.        The main features of the various components and subcomponents are
detailed in the following Tables 1 to 3. The combined flood protection and
drainage improvements will reduce seasonal flooding and local flash flooding
in a total of 15 sq km in the four cities, benefitting a total of about 19,000
households. Improvements to key primary and secondary drains have been
designed on an integrated basis and will be coordinated wit:h construction of
the various road improvements under the project. Improvement of main drains
in Khon Kaen will require extensive land acquisition and about 30 household
relocations, to provide the necessary right-of-way width. Displaced resi-
dents, many of whom are squatters and fall within the urban poverty group,
will be compensated and offered alternative sites on municipal lands.
7.        Design standards adopted for drainage improvements include the
selection of 5-year design storms as most cost-effective for main drains and
2-years for secondary drains. Open drains of trapezoidal cross-section and
lined where necessary for hydaulic efficiency, are mainly used throughout
except where, for reasons of constricted space (usually in roads and streets),
rectangular or closed sections are adopted. Reasonable hydrological data was
readily available in all cases and designs were based on the unit-hydrograph
flood routing method of analysis for large catchments and the so-called
'rational method' for small catchments. All cities have been provided with
adequate drainage design criteria and rationalized construction standards for
drainage facilities which will facilitate future system expansion and main-
tenance.
8.        Design criteria for sewers and wastewater treatment ponds were
determined through wastewater management facilities plans prepared for Chiang



- 42 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 3
Mai, Khon Kaen and Korat!' following an extensive survey of domestic and
industrial water consumption waste and water discharges and drainage and
disposal facilities. Stabilization pond designs are based on average
discharges of 200 liters/cap/day and 40 grams/cap/day BOD5 with an average
areal loading rate of 275 kg BOD5/ha on the initial facultative pond.
Maturation ponds are provided in series to effect pathogen removals.
9.        The leaching pit/combined sewer/stabilization pond sewerage system
chosen in the project cities was based on a least-cost analysis. In the case!
of Korat it was demonstrated that the annual economic cost of the proposed
system, which it is estimated would serve an equivalent population of 25,000
households (or about 170,000 persons) ultimately, would be about B 1,300 per
household./2 Of this cost the annual cost of the wastewater collection and
treatment would be about half which represents an average incremental monthly
expenditure of B 45 per household (or 1% of the median income) over present
expenditure.
1/   Plans for Songkhla will be produced during an ongoing ADB/UNDP-financed
environmental planning study of the Songkhla Lake basin.
2/   By way of comparison, it is estimated that the annual economic cost of
water-borne sewerage as typically provided in Australia, for example, is
about B 7,600 per household (1983).



THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Main Drainage and Flood Protection /a
Concrete
Overall    Maximum          Cross-          lining      Appurtenant                 /c
City/component                    length    discharge        section /b      thickness    structures         Base cost
(km)     (cu m/sec)         (m)             (mm)          (no.)           (mln Baht)
Chiang Mai
Mae Kha headwater diversion        1.2       15.0     T 3.Ox2.5             Unlined   1 inlet weir,
channel                                                                                1 outlet gate
Khon Kaen
Klong Rong Muang improvement/d   3.5          7.2     T 4.0-8.Ox2.7-3.2   125          2 culverts                          Z
Korat
Central area interceptors /d       1.4          -     R 1.6-2.4x1.6-2.0   150          5 culverts
C 1.5 0
Railway channel                    4.8       14.7     R 1.8-2.4x1.5-1.6   150
T 5.0x2.0            125
Songkhla
Klong Kwang improvement            1.1       10.2     T 1.5-2.0x1.3-1.5   125
R 4.Oxl.4-1.7        150
n.a. = not applicable
/a Secondary drainage improvements listed in Annex 4.
7W- T = trapezoidal, bottom width x depth (side slope 1:1.5 lined, 1:2 unlined).
R = rectangular, bottom width x depth.
C = culvert, width x height or diameter (0).
/c  January 1985, including physical contingencies, design and supervision but not including price contingencies.    > 
7-7 Sewerage subcomponent details listed in Table 2.                                                                          w



ANNEX 3
- 44 -                                    Table 2
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sewerage
Total       Concrete   Treatment
Pipe      flow           pipe        pond               /b
City/component                     length   (cu m/s)/a    diameter        area      Base cost
(km)    Avg.  Peak       (m)         (ha)      (mln Baht)
Khon Kaen
Klong Rong Muang interceptors    2x3.5   0.24  0.72    0.6-1.00                     17.34
Bung Thung Sang wastewater
ponds & pumping station          n.a.                                 12.3        12.41
Korat
Hua Thale diversion, wastewater
ponds & pumping stations (3)       0.6   0.18  0.5          0.60      15.1/c      26.86
45.57d
n.a. - not applicable.
/a  Peak - 3 x average dry weather flow (combined sewer).
/b  January 1985.
/c  Interim phase (project component).
/d  Ultimate size.



ANNEX 3
- 45 -                             Table 3
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Solid Waste Management Facilities Summary
(Million Baht)
City/component /b                                                           Amount
Khon Kaen
Collection trucks                                                         3.42
Collection equipment                                                      0.34
Maintenance garage and tools                                              1.65
Landfill facilities and equipment                                        14.20
Subtotal                                                              19.61
Korat
Collection trucks                                                         7.54
Collection equipment                                                      0.44
Maintenance garage and tools                                              2.49
Landfill facilities and equipment                                        18.25/c
Subtotal                                                              28.72
Songkhla
Connection trucks                                                         1.05
Collection equipment                                                      0.36
Maintenance garage and tools                                              2.02
Landfill facilities and equipment                                        15.42
Access road                                                               6.54
Subtotal                                                             25.39
Total                                                                 73.72
/a  January 1985 base cost including design and supervision and physical con-
tingencieB.
lb Details of vehicles and machinery given in Annex 2.
/c Including land acquisition.



- 46 -                              ANNEX 4
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Urban Transport Component Summary
Background
if.       Traffic in regional cities is typically composed mainly of pedal and
motorcycles (67%), however, automobiles (12%), buses (14%) and heavy vehicles
(7%), account for 60-70% of person trips, with buses handling about one-half
of those trips. Traffic growth in the cities is estimated to be 5 to 8% per
annum. Peak flows are relatively low and account for about 8% of average
daily traffic, although average running speeds are often markedly reduced in
city centers due to congestion resulting mainly from variable road widths and
inadequate intersection capacity. During the preparation a hierarchical
classification of each cities' network was developed as a guide to desirable
standards and improvement prioritization. Following this an assessment of
system "bottlenecks" was made of all cities' major road networks.
2.        Selection of roads for improvement was based on a number of criteria
including the capacity constraints mentioned above. Various thresholds of
improvement such as resurfacing, rehabilitation, widening, reconstruction or
additional roads as well as traffic management measures were considered
against such factors as traffic volumes, pedestrian usage, structural condi-
tion of the pavement as well as social and economic impact. In most cases the
cities preferred to concentrate the project emphasis on major routes leaving
improvement of minor streets to routine budget programs.
3.        Major intra-city capacity constraints were dealt with in Chiang Mai
where the municipal area is divided by a major river. Existing crossings in
the city are operating at or close to full capacity. A new crossing by means
of a 160 m long, four-lane river bridge together with its approach roads, have
been included in the project. In Chiang Mai additional cross-river traffic
capacity will be provided by means of a simple cost effective widening of an
existing 2-lane bridge to enable separation of slow-moving pedi-cabs (known
locally as samlors) from the main traffic stream.
4.        Details of the proposed road improvements, totalling about 17.3 km,
are given in the following Table. Drainage details included in the summary
relate to proposed roadside drain improvements described in Annex 3 but which
will be integrated with the road improvement construction contracts.



- 47 -
ARNEI 4
TSAILAND                                                           Table 1
REGIONAL CITIES DRELOP?ENT PROJECT
Urban Transport Component Sumry
Roads and Roadside DrA inae Improvements
(All prices as at Septe ber 1985)
Road improvesents                                                 Drain Improvements
Length (a) by type
Sidewalk   Inter-   Surface  Base cost  Area (rai)         Size range      Length  Base cost
City/district        A      B      C       D      E      only    sections   type    (xln baht)   aerved         Cm) & material       (a)  (iln Baht)
Chiaug Mai
Central - North      -    800       -      -    280       -        4     A            10.69         0.0                               0      0.00
Central - South    270      -      -       -      -       -        -     A             0.64         0.0                               0      0.00
Northwest          680      -                                       I    A             1.70       123.0   18 0.6-B 1.5xl.5        2,560     13.42
Southwest          220      -      -       -      -       -        -     A             0.36       191.0   IJ O.6x0.6-J 1.5x1.5   1,940      13.52
East                 -      -       -    310      -       -        -     A, D          1.05        41.0    6 0.6-T 5.Oxl.O        1,900      6.85
Subtotal                                                                           14.44                                                 33.79
Xhon Kaen
North              200    980    230       -      -       -        -     A, D          2.24        63.0  [U 0.8x1.2-B 1.5xl.5       870      4.72
Central          1,020    140  1,140    670       -       -        -     A, D          7.75       160.0    T 0.6x0.8-T 6.3x1.2   3,200      14.61
South                -    100    480       -      -     240        1    A, D           4.21         8.0    U 0.8x1.0                530      1.59
Subtotal                                                                           14.20                                                 20.92
Korat
West             3,000      -       -      -      -       -        -      A            8.14       117.8    0 0.6-0 1.2            6,700     31.06
Central              -                     -       -      -                             -         184.0    8 0.4-B 1.5xl.5        8,932     42.46
Subtotal                                                                            8.14                                                 73.52
3ongkhla
North            1,450    430       -    430      -       -        -     A, D          5.11        40.0    0 0.8-B 1.2x1.2          750      4.21
Central            390      -                                      -     A             4.67       128.0    a O.6x1.0-T 3.Oxl.0   1,220       2.94
South            2,940      -       -      -      -       -        -     A, D         14.75       105.0    0 1.0-B 2.Oxl.S        3,170     17.33
Subtotal                                                                           24.53                                                 24.48
Total                                                                                61.31                                                152.71
Improvement Type:                       Surface Type                                   Drain Material
A - overlay                             A - asphalt                                    e - reinforced concrete pipe (diameterm)
N - pavement widening                   C - concrete                                   B - RC box drain (width x depth)
C - pavement reconstruction            D - double bituminous surface treatment         T - trapezoidal channel unlined (top width x depth)
D - formation widening                                                                 U - U-drain (width x depth)
E - new road construction



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Songkhla Fishport and Commercial/Industrial Zone Component Summary
Background
1.        It is roughly estimated that one person out of three in Songkhla's
workforce is employed in the fishing industry. Landings of table fish,
crustaceans and trash fish (for fishmeal) at Songkhla have stabilized in
recent years at about 200,000 tons. Landings in 1979 amounted to about 13% of
the national catch and were valued at nearly 700 million Baht. Due to general
over-fishing of coastal waters and poor regulation of the industry it is not
expected that significant growth will occur in catches. Nevertheless,
Songkhla is a popular port among fishermen due to its access to the lucrative
Malaysian and Singapore markets and is considered a logical focus for efforts
to rationalize the industry and improve productivity.
2.        While conscious of the need to strengthen the fishing industry in
Songkhla, the city is also anxious to diversify its economic activities.
Songkhla's potential for tourism is good, through its natural beaches and
nearby ecological preserves. An increase in commercial activity is anti-
cipated due to its adoption by the energy companies concerned with gas and oil
production in the Gulf of Thailand as a field support base and also due to an
impending ADB-financed general cargo port for coastal shipping traffic. The
heavily utilized existing fishport is located close to the city center,
creating much pollution and congestion. Other fish landing facilities, both
private and informal exist along the fringes of the promotory on which the
city is situated and cause localized nuisance. The forthcoming UNDP and ADB-
financed Songkhla Lake Basin Planning Area Study will, as part of a regional
economic development planning effort help prepare a comprehensive city de-
velopment plan. This would include the possible redevelopment of the city's
waterfront which is likely to decline somewhat following the opening of the
new general cargo port. A key measure in such a plan would be the relocation
of the existing fish landing facilities including the leading facility owned
by the Fish Marketing Organization (FMO).
Concept
3.        Following a study of various alternative sites the proposed location
of the port at Tha Sa-an to the South of the city on the lake side was cho-
sen. At this location advantage could be taken of a natural channel about
300 m offshore thereby avoiding dredging. The intervening shallow area of
about 22 ha between the dock and the shore is readily reclaimable for indus-
trial/commercial development. Access and infrastructure is available on-shore
and an existing slum to be upgraded under the project adjoins the site;
offering possibilities for integrated development. The proposals are
illustrated in Exhibit F.



- 49 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 2
offering possibilities for integrated development. The proposals are
illustrated in Exhibit F.
Port Facilities
4.        The port facilities would consist of a 330 m long,, 25 m wide mar-
ginal wharf separated for trash fish and table fish unloading. A 240 m long
wharf would also be provided for small boat unloading. Construction of the
pier and wharf would be of concrete paving on compacted fill, against a sheet-
pile bulkhead. The reclaimed back-up land would be pre-loaded to induce
settlement and rip-rap protected along the edges at a 2:1 slope where not
sheet pile retained. Water depth at the wharf face at low water would be
about 4.5 m. Fish auctioning areas on the wharf would be covered. Bunkering
and icing facilities would be provided along a 10 length of the main wharf
extremity. Packing and processing sheds for sub-letting wiLl be provided on a
5.6 ha portion of the reclaimed land together with provision for future cold
storage facilities. The port and back up land would be fenced off from the
adjoining industrial estate but access would'be shared.
Commercial/Industrial Zone
5.        Recent studies by the Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand indi-
cate considerable demand for small-scale industrial sites in Songkhla but a
scarcity of suitable land for such estates. The provision of about 16.7 ha of
reclaimed land adjacent to the fishport and close to the city for commercial/
industrial development is expected to draw much interest from agro-industry
and fishing industry enterpreneurs as well as secondary industries. The
estate will be provided with full trunk infrastructure, excepting buildings
but including wastewater treatment facilities in order to reduce the impact of
the estate and port on the ecologically sensitive Songkhla Lake.
Table 1: SONGKHLA FISHPORT AND COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL
ZONE COST ESTIMATES
Item                                                                 Amount /a
(million Baht)
Land acquisition and property compensation                               16.3
Reclamation                                                              73.0
Wharf and pier structures                                                52.4
Mechanical and electrical works                                          14.4
Civil works (infrastructure and port offices)                            18.1
Fish packing and processing sheds                                        17.6
Commercial/industrial zone infrastructure                                24.0
Total                                                            215.8
/a   January 1985 prices, including physical contingencies, design and
supervision, but not including price contingencies.



- so -                             ANNEX 6
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Slum Improvement Component Summary
Background
1.        Physical improvements to relatively congested and poorly serviced
residential areas in Chiang Mai (2 sites of 3.3 and 8.5 ha respectively
containing 526 households in total), Korat (5.6 ha, 618 households) and
Songkhla (6.6 ha with about 600 households) will be carried out, together with
limited social development activities. The cities were assisted by the NHA in
identifying and planning the areas to be improved. This represents the first
significant slum improvement effort by NHA in regional cities drawing upon
experience in the NHA's extensive Bangkok slum improvement program.
2.        Deficiencies in regional cities slums are not generally as acute as
in the capital. Housing stock is quite good; densities, although congested,
are relatively low (about half the Bangkok average) and income distribution
although at the poverty line on average are not markedly different on the
whole to the city average (see Annex 1).  Physical conditions are nevertheless
quite bad in the selected sites with severe seasonal flooding, inefficient
drainage and poor sanitation and access among the chief difficulties.
Security of tenure for the residents also varies but with most dwellers paying
rent either to the municipality, private landowners or lessors (approximately
40% of the areas to be improved are privately-owned). A very small proportion
(about less than 5% in most cases) are squatters.
3.        Improvements proposed include paved footpath access and piped or
open channel drainage, limited vehicular access, organized garbage collection,
fire protection and, where affordable, improved water supply and electrical
supply. Infrastructure improvement standards are given in Table 1. Due
primarily to the lower densities prevailing in regional cities slums, the unit
costs of infrastructure improvement are not comparable with typical Bangkok
experience. Details of the estimated unit cost are given in Table 2.



-51 -                           ANNEX 6
Table 1
TRAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Slum Improvement Component Summary
Infrastructure Standards and Planning Criteria
Infrastructure standards          PlannirLg criteria
Access
Roads (vehicular)        3.4 m wide (6.0 r.o.w.),        Provided only where
bituminous macadam on           existing in slum circu-
granular base.                  lation pattern.
Footpaths:
At-grade               Bituminous surface on gra-    Provided to allow access
vel; main access 2.0 m          from all dwellings to
wide, secondary 1.2-1.5 m,    service road within
tertiary 0.9-1.2 m.             50-100 m walking dis-
tance.
Elevated               Precast concrete or hard-       Provided in low-lying
wood; dimensions as for         areas where filling
at-grade paths.                 infeasible.
Drainage/Flood Pro-
tection
Open channel             Size determined by design       Site filling provided
flow (2-year storm);            (with residents self-
300 mm min. width; con-         help) where feasible.
crete or masonry lined.
Water Supply
Service network          PWA distribution system         Standpipes (1 per 30-50
standards:  80-150 lpccl        families) or house con-
demand.                         nections (resident pays
connection fees).
Sanitation
Excreta disposal         Squat plate, pour flush,        Work undlertaken by resi-
(on plot)               water-sealed toilet with         dents, except in new
leaching pit.                   areas.
Sullage                  Direct discharge to storm       Work undertaken by resi-
drains.                         dents.
Solid waste              Household storage contain-    Collection and transfer
ers, daily collection,          by commtLnity.
bulk storage at strategic
point for municipal ser-
vice pickup.
Electricity
Domestic                 0.5-1.5 kVA/household.          Residenl:s pay for con-
nection and meter.
Street lighting          None                            Municipal service.
Fire Protection            Portable fire extin-             1 per 20 families in
guishers.                       areas inaccessible to
municipal fire brigade.



- 52 -                             ANNEX 6
Table 2
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Slum Improvement Component Summary
Summary Unit Costs
Estimated        Cost per       Cost per
cost /a      household /b    capita /d
B'OOO   $'000       B       $      B       $
Items for which costs are to be
financed from Government revenues
Access and drainage                   18,060     785   10,379   451   1,887    82
Solid waste disposal                     468      20       269    11       49      2
Fire protection                          508      22       292    13       53      2
Subtotal                          19,036      827   10,940   475   1,989    86
Items for which costs /d are to
be recovered through utility
charges
Water supply                           9,989     434    5,741   249   1,044    45
Electricity                           7,492      326    4,306   187       783    34
Subtotal                          17,481      760   10,047   436   1,827    79
Total                             36,517   1,587   20,987   911   3,816   165
/a Includes land, design and supervision, and physical contingencies.
/b Cost divided by total number of households (about 1,800).
/c Per family cost divided by 5.5.
/d Costs not financed under project; service available on request from water
supply and electricity authorities.



- 53 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 1
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
1. Engineering Services
Net Cost:/l                   $3,800,000. (48% of total technical
assistance costs).
Source of Finance:            Australian Government aid.
Objectives:                   To provide: (a) assistance in (i) engineer-
ing project managment, (ii) laind acquisition
and (iii) detailed engineering and tender
document preparation and (b) training of PWD
and municipality engineering staff. Terms
of reference finalized July 1983.
Activities/Outputs:           Consultants will (a) assist: PWD project unit
to establish management, procurement and
monitoring systems, (b) prepare detailed
designs and tender documents for approxi-
mately 85% of all components, (c) provide
land acquisition details and services, and
(d) train approximately 15 PWD and 15
municipal engineers in detailed engineering
and procurement.
Staffing:                     The consultants will provicle about 200 man
months of foreign and 300 man months of
local expertise during the period 1983-86.
Work commenced November 1983.
Executing Agency:             Australian Development Assistance Bureau.
2. Project Management Services
Net Cost:                     $830,000 (11% of technical assistance costs)
Source of Finance:            Australian Government Aid.
Objectives:                   To provide assistance in (a) development of
project management, monitoring and reporting
systems, (b) operation of systems, training
of PWD and DOLA staff, and (c) construction
financing and quality control. Terms of
reference to be finalized April 1985.
/1 Net of price contingencies (see Table for details).



- 54 -                               ANNEX 7
Page 2
Activities:                   Development of operational management infor-
mation and progress control systems and
training of operations staff.
Staffing:                    Consultants will provide about 60 man-months
of foreign expertise during 1985-87.
Executing Agency:            ADAB.
3. Construction Supervision Services
Net Cost:                     $1,200,000 (15% of technical assistance
costs).
Source of Finance:           Government (loan funds) or bilateral aid
grant sources (unidentified).
Agency:                      Ministry of Interior, Public Works
Department.
Objectives:                   To provide: (a) assistance in construction
supervision management; (b) construction
supervision services; (c) operations and
maintenance training and (d) in-service
training of PWD and municipal engineering
staff. Terms of reference to be finalized
April 1985.
Activities/outputs:           Consultants will (a) assist PWD project unit
to establish construction supervision
management and monitoring system; (b) carry
out supervision of contractors and certify
payment claims for about 60% of all compo-
nents; (c) train municipal staff in opera-
tions and maintenance of municipal infra-
structure including project facilities; and
(d) train approximately 15 PWD and 15 munic--
ipality engineers in construction super-
vision and quality control.
Staffing:                    Local consultants will provide about 400
man-months expertise during period 1985-90.
Executing Agency:            MOI.
4. Municipal Engineering Training
Net Cost:                     $77,000 (1% of technical assistance costs).
Source of Finance:           Australian Government aid.
Agency:                      Ministry of Interior, Public Works
Department.



-     -                            ANNEX 7
Page 3
Objectives:                  To strengthen PWD technical assistance
capacity through: provision of laboratory
equipment, (b) training in wastewater
analysis, and (c) fellowships and study
tours for selected engineering training.
Terms of reference have been drafted.
Activities/outputs:           To establish operational central wastewater
analysis laboratory and provide training for
about 6 PWD engineers in wastewater chemis-
try, municipal engineering planning and
design.
Staffing:                     1 advisor (5 man-months)  1984-85.
Executing Agency:            Australian Development Assistance Bureau.
5. Municipal Finance Services
Net Cost:                     $169,000 (2% of technical assistance costs)
Source of Finance:           Australian Government Aid.
Agency:                       Ministry of Interior, Department of Local
Administration.
Objectives:                   Assist in (a) installation of municipal
finance systems, (b) development of project
accounts, and (c) review the Municipal
Development fund.
Activities/outputs:           Consultant will (a) assist in (i) implemen-
tation of municipal financial systems and
training of MOI and municipal staff, (ii)
design and implementation of project
accounting system and training of DOLA
staff, and (b) carry out a, review of the
Municipal Development Fund. and make recom-
mendations for strengthening of fund. DOLA
staff will obtain equipment, develop and
implement a training program for municipal
revenue officers including; fellowships and
study tours.
Staffing:                     15 man-months (1986-85)
Executing Agency:             Australian Development Assistance Bureau.



- 56 -                               ANNEX 7
Page 4
6. Future Project Preparation and Associated Studies
Net Cost:                     $1.4 million (notional allowance). (18% of
total technical assistance costs).
Source of Finance:            Government or bilateral aid grant source
(unidentified).
Agency:                       National Economic and Social Development
Board and Ministry of Interior.
Objectives:                   To prepare future regional cities project on
basis of studies aimed at identifying appro-
priate urban centers and refining project
objectives, with particular emphasis on
further local institution building
measures. Terms of reference to be agreed
in principle during loan negotiations and
developed during implementation of project.
Activities/outputs:           Consultants and government task forces will
make recommendations for and prepare a
suitable regional cities project for Bank
appraisal.
Staffing:                     200 man-months (60 foreign, 120 local)
consultant expertise (1987-88).
Executing Agency:             Ministry of Interior.



- 57 -
THAILANSD  REGIOAI  CITIES DEVEL0PhEtT PROJECT                                                                                               Annex 9
Detoited Cost Etimateo by Component and Yeer (Saht 'DD)                                                                           Tabto iA
Sumary by tmepornnt
oese     Contingencies      -    TotaL            Forsogn-                    -AnnuaL Expendituro
Component                      cost   PhysicaL   Price    cost        2      cost        S        1965     111SS     1987     19S8    1996       1990
Land                           162914        0    20S75   1837S9      18.4T        0      0.01   12494   155D47         0        0    15S48         0
Drains" & Sanitetion           195048    29257    375S3   26196B      1S.01  10529t      40.8    5SUS   12U126   10S948    28129           a        0
Urban Transport                303057    45458    71108   419S19      30.51  149S19      35.41    5856   12838   183065   93050    32_09            0
R vanue Earning                151133    22870    46201   220D04      18.01   70401      32.01       0         0   102455    12833    54918         0
Stu Improvoent                  32137     4821     4879    41697       3.01   15406      97.01    251    3S1B5       5S21        0         a        0
Teohnical Assistance           174783     8738    21164   2046SS      14.91  12323V      60.5  120027    14122    30383    2S431        7021     37L2
PrjeJct Administration          33629     3651     6652    43943       3.21   15277      34.8S    4854    1475    13SS7       6971      3633      123
Totat                        1052701   11487   209237  1375545    100.01  479221         4.81  151945   46677   419040   216214   113727        3844
02-Nr-85
THAILANDs REBIONAL CITIES DEVELOPEWrT PROJECT                                                                                                TabLa 1B
Detailed Cost Etimates by Component and Year IS '0001
Sumsry by Component
Bees     Contingencies      -    Total -      - Foreign           -           -AnnuaL Expendituro
Component                      cost   PhysicaL   Price    cost        S      cost        7        1995    1D8B       19S87    198S      1389     190
Land                             80S4        0      773      8807     13.41        0      0.01     463     5754         0        0       591        0
Drainage & Sanitation            7224     1084     1SSt      9699     1S.01    3899      40.2      217      41184    3850      B6S         0        0
Utban Tronsport                 11224     1684     2688    15541      30.51    5504      35.41     217     446       6o0s     3448     11ea         0
Pevenue Earning                  559S      840     1711      9148     16.01    2607      32.01       0         0     37B5     2320     2084         0
SLUm Improvement                 119O      179      179      1542      8.0      571     37.01     16       1t21      21n8       0         0        0
TYohnioaL Assistance             6473      324      794      7581     14.91    4564      60.25    4445       12S     1125     1090       280      138
Project Administration           1249      136      246      1628       .21      568     34.91     190      155       488      258       155        5
Totot                          M8e98     4245     7712    50948    W0.0S   17712        34.81    5528    17182    ¶5520      9092      4212      142
029-r-S5
Ibtes to TabLes I to 71
1. Taxes end dutis incLuded and aesumd as   137.6 miL. 8 ht
10.0S of totaL project cost
2. Bass Prioxs Janusry 1995 (61.00 - 27 Bkht)
3. PhysiotL Contingenciam  Land                    01
Civil work end
equipment            15S
Technicat axst          5S
4. Price Contingencies%
1988     1996    187       1988     1999     1990
LocaL Inftltion        6.A0      7.01     8.01     6.01      6.01     6.01
Foreign InfLation      9.01      9.01     9.01     9.01      7.51     6S.
5. ProJ. 1inistretion Attowance         3.31



- 58 -
THtLANDS REGIONL CITIE8 DEVELOPENT PROJECT                                                                                                   Annex 8
DetaxLed Cost Ecti_tas by Component and Y"r (B8ht '0001                                                                            TabtL 2
Ch1ing Mai
Bess     Oontingencisc      -    Totat-       - Foreign-                          AnnuaL Expendetu-
Conponent                      cost   PhyxicaL   Price    cost        S      cost        S        1S95     1988      1897     1908      1969    1i00
Drainage & Sanitationi
Diveren channcl  - Land      23524        0     2771    28295       8.01        0      0.0       0    28298         0        0         0        0
- CV        4280      8J9      1010     5909      1.01    2264      40.01        a        0      8909        0        0        0
Urban Transports
RoedAstreat lsp  - Land     24099         0     2538    27532       9.SS       0       0.01    5458    22073         0        0         0        0
- Cv       41195     8S78      8791    58154      17.01   20777     37.01    1478    1S859    23400    11819          0         0
INk Ping bridge  - aX        2490       374      279      3142      1.01     848      27.01     884     2279         0        0         a        0
Mm bridge        - Land      44271        0     5215    48488      1.0S         0      0.01       0    4948S         0        0         0        0
- co       51424     7714    12815    72753       22.01   22553     91.01        a        0    478651    25101        0         0
Riverfront dav   - Land      14000        0     1849    1c848       4.71       0       0.01       0    156848        0        0         0        0
- CV       32212     4892    11986    4970       14.71   1412S      29.01        a        0        0    909S2    177e7         0
SLua Isprovements
Thiparnt         - a          6178      928      784      7888      2.41    298S      27.01    1034     8852         0        0         0        0
Rakseng          - CV         4891      724      921      8245      1.01    2S11      37.01     919     5428         0        0         0        0
Project Administration           8231      708     1915    10552       3.28        0      0.01     319      4875     2540     2292       8S9        0
Totat                         257800   2212    50542   32004    100.01   85094          19.91    9972   152894    79S00    89864    18385          0
THAILAM2a REIONAL CITIES OEVELOPIElfr PROJECT                                                                                                Trbta  S
DetaiLed Coat Esti1_te  by Component and Year (B1ht '000)
Khon Keen
Bees     Contingncies       -    TootL-       - Foreign                           AnnuxL Expendituro
Oeponent                       coat   PhysicaL   Price    cost        S      coat        S        IS90     1988      1987     1S88      198S     199O
Drainage & S nitationi
Rong Nung I      - Land      27890        0     S226    81278      18.11        0      0.01       a    31276         0        0         0        0
- CV       19810     2972      5435    28218     14.51   10440      37.01        0        0    18748    11470         0         0
Smga trtat pLt - Land         1882        0      192      1824      0.91       a       0.01       0     1824         0        0         0        0
- CV       12412     1992      208S    17382       8.01    5209     20.01        0        0    14248      2119        0         0
Intercept saer - Land         1491        0      178      1887      0.9S       0       0.01       0     1887         0        0         0        0
- CV       17344     2802      4758    24704      12.71    9140     37.01        0        0    14881    10042         0         0
SoLid wanst imp  - CO        14858     2229     1848    19032       9.80    9125      48.01    1855    17077         0        0         0        0
- Eeuipt    S500       525      862     4687       2.45    3140     97.01        0     2ao        98e      741        0         0
Urban Tronsporti
Ro adStret imp  - C         40170      602      8706    52902      27.21   19574      37.01    2402    32190    1670          0        0         0
- Equipt    4784      718       951     845S3      9.2     4323     87.01        0     2971     3482         0        0        0
Project Adm1nintration         4751      558      998      6208      S.21    2012       0.01     144     2S77      2250      837         0        0
Totat                         149732    17490    28108   194331    190.01   82979       32.41    4201    9018      704a8    281210        0 
02-hr-85
40tes to Tabies 1 to 7s
1. Texas and duti1e inotlded aed an_d as   107. miL. kht
10.01 of total pnJeot sest
2. bee Prime Janry 1W6 l1.08 * 27 Sti
S.   yeIoaL Contingnol"1 LeAd                       01
CiviL rPk sad
equipment           1I
Teshnioet  eta          B
4. Prie  Oontingeieai
1m        im"     12r7      am                11WO
neal lanfttien         3.S       7.DS     6S.       8.8      6.0      6.1s
Foraip Lnftbt1en       am        BAN      g.91      3.0     7.5      8s1
B. ProJ. Ain1stratie All_en            8



- 59 -
THAILANDs RE&IONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                Annex 9
Detaited Ceost Eati1tes by Component and Year CBlht D000O                                                                         TabLe 4
Nakhon Retchesie
Bes    Dintingancima       -     Totax-       -   Foreign-                      -AnnuoL Expenditure
Cbeponent                      cost   PhysIcat  Price    coat         S      cost        1        1965    19E8       1987     1968     1989      1S9O
Drainage B Senitation.
Intercepts & ps  - Land        299        0       12       311      0.1S       a       0.01     311         0        a        0         a        0
- CV       20176     3026      2928    28029       9.51    9630     37.01        0    26018        0         0        0        0
S_e  tot  ptLt - Ltnd          220        0       29       248      0.11        0      0.01       0      21e         0        0         0        0
- CV       28961     4029      5476    36366     13.3S   13092      36.01        0    114E14    24832        0        0        0
RiLway, chonneL  - Land        554        0       65       619      0.28       0       0.01       0      S619        0        0        0         0
- CV       23E84     3554      40E7    31315      11.51   11587     37.01        0    20410    10986         0        0        0
S8t1d wast  imp  - CV       21760      3264     2648    27673       0.21   13379      48.01    2883    26110         0        0         0        0
- Equ1pt    50DO      750      9S3      6733      2.51    4511      67.01        0     3214     3489         0        0        0
Urban Transport$
Street drains    - ca       75860    11379    18741   1059B0       36.01   39213      37.01       0    322115   37645    21396    14441          0
Roedastrest imp  - CN         8420     1263     2155    11936       4.31    4390      37.01       0     1303    8654       4000         0        a
SLim Iaprovment  - Ci         12729     19OS     2165   16923        6.21    6225      37.01       0    11002      5921        0         0        0
Project Administration         6454      983     1300      9716      3.2S    3367       0.0     105      43t5    2962       938       477        0
TotaL                         202027    30139    408865   272850    100.01  105383      36.81    3278   185868   92419    28237    14918           0
ThAILANm  REGIONIAL CTIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                TabLe 5
DetaiLed Cost Estlistas by Component and Year 18aht '000O
SongkhLI
Bess     Contingncies       -    TotaL -      -   Foreign -                     -Annual Expenditur
bemponent                      coat   Phyalcat   Price    cost        S      cost        S        1985     19S8    1987       1989     1989      19SO
Orainage & SBnitstions
KLong K-ang imp  - Land       1721        0        6S     1790      0.5o        0      0.01    1790         a        0        0         0        0
- CV        5143      771       688     6553       1.89    2424     37.01    1046      567         0         0        0        0
Sfimd wosts imp - Ci         18230     2865    3519    25834        7.05   10253      40.01       a    13899    11737         0         0        0
- Equipt    1000      15O       308     1486      0.4S      975     87.01        0        0      700       756        0        0
Urban Transporti
eodlstr.et 1ip  - Land        9226        0      l76      6702      1.91       0       0.01    4934     1788         0        0        0         0
- Ch       46512     6977      82068  1897       16.89   22628      S7.01    1118    34802    25792          0        0        0
Revenue Earnings
Firhpt/c-i zone  - Ltnd      15900        0     4492    20392       5.ES        0      0.01       0      4443        0        0    15648         0
- CV      151133    22670    46201   220004      80.01   70401      32.01        0        0   102485    62633    54816         0
SLum Improvemnt  - ON          8341     1251     1090    10982       2.91    3952      37.01    S98      9864         0        0         0        0
0 .01
ProJect Administration         8425     1146     2142    11712       3.2S    3858       0.01     826      2113     4642     2092     2339         0
Total                         263731    35849    67040   398620    100.01  114492       31.21   10208    72814   145S18   86541    78203           0
02-br-86
Ntes to TebLee i to 7i
1. Texas and duties 1noLuded ond ausumed as   1D7.8 *1t. Blht
19.81     totat proeot east
9. Bee Prices January 1915 (61.00 - *7 Beht)
S. Physe1et Wntingeniesst Land                      OS
Civit mark and
aquipxant            1SS
TecahniL soat 
4. Prire CWnting nmiesa
S la     1iiw               low     li98      198
Loat InfLation           .81O    7.01     61 6AI1            6s 8.05  6.81
Foreign InfLetien      8.01      S.9      6.01     9.0S        71s    6.51
5. PreJ. 1in1etratim  AtLtence          I.S



THAIIAND) RE110KAL CITIES DEVEL09ElNT PROJECT                                 - 60                                                           Annex 9
DOteiLed aCot Estimtes by Component and Year (Baht '0001                                                                           Tabte 6
T ehnicaL Assiatance
bea      Contingencie       -TotatL-          - Foreign -                         AnuL Expenditur        a
Ctmponent                     cost   Physical   Price    cost         S      cost        S        1965    1986       1967     19S8     1966      1990
Engineering 8arvicess
DOtaiL eginsering            94000     4700     3848   102648      48.50   71854      70.01  102646         0        0        0 a                0
Project must beat            19800      945     2589    22431      10.6    2019S      90.01    5160    1116S       0o9s       0         ti       O
Construction suparvn        21000      1250     9841    32681      15.41       a       0.01    2730     2024      824S     99se    7021       3721
Training & Advisory Serve
Wstmatar mdvlser               820       41       34       895      0.4S     896    100.01    8en           a        a        0 O                a
NunicipaL engrg fships        106S       54       45      1193      0.e    119S    100.0S    119S          a        0        a         tl       a
MunicipaL finance advar       2369      119       9S      2587      1.28       0       0.0    2597         0        0        0.        Ci       a
lDF etudy                     190S       s0       79      1975      0.01        0      0.01    1976         0        0        0         0        a
Equipment S vehicLes          2609      130      110      298S      1.3%    294S    100.01    2384                   0        a O                0
Future Project Prep           2t193     1410     7924    37529      17.7S   28266    ?70.0         0         0    1so31    19485         O)       a
0.01
Prjejct Aministration            5789      289      s99      0755      3.28    4067       0.01    a961       488     1002      971       211      123
Total                         190581     9028    21882   211441    100.01  102704       90.28  123999    14868    31365    80402       72Sl    3844
THAILANDa REGIONAL CITIE8 DEVELOP1tElT PROJECT                                                                                               Tebts 7
DetaiLed Coat Eatimtes by Component and Year (Baht '000)
Su_ary by City
asee     Contingencies      -    Total -      - Foreign-                          AnnuaL Expenditur       -
Component                      coat   Physicat  Price    cost         S      coat        1        1S95     199e      1987     1966     198e      199O
Chieng Nei                     257980    22102    50542  3a0304       24.01   85694      19.      9972   162594    795O    e9984    193S3           0
Khon Keen                      148732    17400    28109   194331      14.11   62973       2.4S    4e01   92182    70438    2921o                    0
N_khon Retchasima             202027    30a13     40685   972650      19.91  10523       89.81    8278   1S8939    92418    2t237   14819           a
abngkhta                       283731    8584     67040   s86620      26.7n  114482      31.21   10208    72414   145816    85461    72202          0
Technicat Assistance           190e551    9029   2M12   211441        15.41  127904      90.28  12S39     14596    B1265   80402       7262      S844
Totat                        1052701   114607   208227  187554      100.01  476047      84.6S  151848  4u8778   419040   218214   113727        8e44
02-ear-e
Notes to Tdlee I to 71
t. Taxes nd a   idues Inctuded end  smed as   137.8 miL. Beht
1.01 of total proj et oeat
e. lam Prinee January 1M  ($1.09 * V   shtl
3. PhyeieL COntlnganoei   Land                     O1
Civit acfx and
equipment           11
Technicel  meet        aS
4. Price 0Dntingane1e.
13SM     1f      1ow       1396     1Sft1on     0
Local InfLation        3.OS      7.9     S9.       3,9S      6.D1     S.0
Foreign Inftation      8.3       3 t .01  39S       3.01     7.       3 iS
e. Proj. Ainistratimn AiLcun te 8tS



- 61-                                                                                   ANEPX 9
Table l
1MAILA)RD
RFarIoNAL CITIES DEVEWOPMENT PltOJICT
A-ency X-espon-shilltie  for Pro1et Impl_nentatin_ Punction
Puhil                   _  Protrement                                                                          Hepocting
Land .cgeiliti on                 land               Tender             t          t     Conntru-tinn            Operation                           *nd
Property  Property                  Enero-   tran= - Petalled  ca11   d    Contr-t    lontract  loper-   Cets_-    and Intenance                  Prolect   disbure-ent
Coeponent          _an-er    survey    HNgoti.tl.o  pri.tion    fer    design  e-aluation       aard      erec tion   vision    inning Oneratino    lantenance  aenitorlng   oordinatIon
Main drainage        P*IU       PWD         LIU          PWD     DOLA      Pw1        rwD        DOLA      IlDLAIPWI     PWD      PW1        C1D         CH1       DPOLA/P1         PI
Sewerage              PI1U      PWD         LIII        PWD      DOLA      PWD        PWD        DOLA      MLA/P1uD      PWD)    PWD         ClE         CFD        Dl)LA/PWD     P41 /e
Soi1d naetn         P?MU        PWD          -           -       DOLA      PWD      PWD/LIU   DOLA/ILIU   POLA/PlU   PWD/ILIU  PW1/Ll       CRD         CI!        DOLA/PWD        PhU
R.oda                PIIU      PFD          LTII       PFD       TOLA  PFiD/LIU    PWD/LIII nDLA/LI I  OLA/IP1D/LIU PWD/LIt!  PWD/LII        CIn       CED/CVD      DOLA/PlfD       PUU
Rodaide drainage    PYU          -           _           _         _       PW1        LIU        LITI         LIU        LIIT     LIU        CED         CHD I!      OLA/PW         P!IU
Rridgen              P1U        PWD         LIU         PW1!       -       rw 1        WD       IDOLA        PILA        PWI)     PWn11      Cr1        FDCE/CHD    DDLA/PWD        PYU
Ilaistenante
equipment           PHU                                          - _1WD1            P141       P11          PW1         WD      P9D        CEO         CD!        DOLA/4WD        PUU
FPihp.rt/indus-
tral .nd  o-
--rcial one         PU14)      W)         LIU          PWD     DoLA      PW         PW1        DDOLA     DOLA/PWD      wn       puD WE  P/CFD Id PMY/cD/cEH/n   DOLA/P!WD         PMU
Slu  improvement      PNU       PWD    LIU/INHA/DOYLA    -       DOLA      NHA        LID        LIP         LIP         LIU      LIP      CED/CVI     CMD/oD       nfLA/PWn        PYU
Abb,e,litions:
CED   City Rngineering Department (throu-h LIU)
CffD   City Health Departmnt (through LIU)
DOLA  Pffi e tor cUrbn Dvelopent
10   PFsih  arketing Organi-ftion (Minlatry of Arfi-lture end Cooperatines)
h44HA  Noational Housng Authority
LIU L-cal I plementation Uinit /a
PWD   Urban Development OffM /I
PMU   Pro jet lgpnae-ent Unit (MOLA)
/s  Provided by respective cty.
7ii Aasist.d by consultants.
77  Authority to  1g. contract  <20 million Hht vests in cespetive 1e1 authorityl >211  illion   ht  ests in DIre-tnr-eneral  OLA.
7;  PtlO or othec  pproprate authority In respect of port area.



ANNEX 9
62                                      Table 2
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Staffing Requirements /a
Government of Thailand
fiscal year (project year)
FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
Position and grade                                            (1)   (2)   (3)   (4)   (5)   (6)
DOLA - Office for Urban Development
Chief (PC 6/7) (Project Manager) /d                          1     1      1     1      1      1
Head, Administration Section (PC 5)                          1     1      1     1      1      1
Administrative staff (PC 3-4)                                4     6      6     6      6     6
Clerical staff (PC 1-2)                                      4     5      5     5      5     5
Head, Municipal Systems Development Section (PC 5)           1     1      1     1      1      1
Finance, accounting, planning staff (PC 3-4)                10    12    12    12    12    12
Head, Infrastructure Development Section (PC 5) /d           1     1      1      1     1      1
Engineering and administrative staff (PC 3-4)                4     6      6     6      6     6
Head, Foreign Affairs Section (PC 5)                         1     1      1     1      1      1
Administrative and accounting staff (PC 3-4)                 4     6      6     6      6     6
Subtotal                                                31    40    40    40    40    40
PWD - Technical Office for City Development
Chief, Senior Engineer (PC 7/8) /d                           1     1      1     1      1      1
Deputy Chief, Engineer (PC 6)                                1     1      1     1      1      1
Head, Land Section, Engineer (PC 6) /c /d                    1     1      1     1      1      1
Engineers (PC 3-5)                                           4     4      3     2      1     -
Head, Engineering Section (PC 6) /c /d                       1     1      1     1      1      1
Engineers (PC 3-5)                                           5     5      5     3      3     3
Head, Supervision Section (PC 6)                             1     1      1      1     1      1
Engineers (PC 3-5)                                           1     5      8     7      7      5
Technicians (PC 2-4)                                         2     4      4     4      3     3
Clerical staff (PC 1-3)                                      2     4      4     4      4     3
Subtotal                                                19    27    29    25    23    19
Local Implementation Unit (Typical)
Town clerk (PC -)                                           (1)   (1)   (1)   (1)   (1)   (1)
Senior engineer (PC -)                                       1     1      1     1      1     1
Engineer, Land Group (PC -) /b                               1     1      1     -      -     -
Technicians, Land Group (PC T /b                             3     3      2     -      -     -
Engineer, Engineering Group (PC -)                           1     1      1     1      1      1
Engineer, Procurement Group (PC -)                           1     1      1     1      1     -
Engineer, Supervision Group (PC -) /b                        -     1      2     2      2     2
Inspectors (PC -) /b                                        -      3      6     6      6     6
Engineers, O&M Group (PC -) /b                               -    (1)   (2)   (2)   (2)   (2)
Planners, Planning and Evaluation Section (PC -)             2     2      2     2      2      2
Accountants, Finance and Accounts Section (PC -)           (2)   (2)   (2)   (2)   (2)   (2)
Subtotal                                                16    17    21    18    18    17
Subtotal - All city PIUs                                48    68    84    72    72    68
Total                                                   98   135   153   137   135   127
/a To be assigned full time to project unless shown in parentheses.
/b Staffing requirements differ slightly from city to city.
/c Ten to fifteen years' experience.
/d  Member project management committee.



-63 -                                      ANNEX 10
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditure and Disbursement
(US$'million)
Country
Cumulative                                                profile %
Semes-  Semester            project ex-    Amount    Cumulative   % cumulative   cumulative
ter    ending              penditure/a  disbursed  disbursement  disbursement  disbursement
1    Dec 31, 1985            5.6          1.5/b          1.5              5              -
2    Jun 30, 1986            14.3         0.5            2.0              7               2
3    Dec 31, 1986           14.3          4.0            6.0             22              7
4    Jun 30, 1987           30.8          4.0           10.1             37              12
5    Dec 31, 1987           38.5          5.4           15.4             56              19
6    Jun 30, 1988           42.6          5.4           20.7             75             28
7    Dec 31, 1988           46.6          2.7           23.5             85             37
8    Jun 30, 1989           48.7          2.7           26.2             95             48
9    Dec 31, 1989           50.8          1.3           27.5            100             58
10    Jun 30, 1990           50.9         (1.3)/d                                        67
11    Dec 31, 1990           50.9         (0.1)/d                                        76
12    Jun 30, 1991                        (0.1)/d                                        83
13    Dec 31, 1991
14    Mar 31, 1992/c
/a  Including nonreimbursible expenditures (taxes and duties, land, and project adminis-
tration).
/b Special account opening advance.
/c Project closing date.
/d Drawdown from special account.



- 64 -                                                                    ANNEX 11
Table 1
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparison of Total Resources of the Four Project Cities (1981)
(B'OOD)
Chiang Mai                         Khon Kaen                            Korat                            Songkhla
Baht      Percent                 Baht      Percent                  daht      Percent                  Baht      Percent
Type of                             per       of total                 per       of total                 per       of total                 per       of total
resources                 Amount   capita   resources    Amount   capita   resources    Amount   capita   resources    Amount   capita   resources
Local taxes                 9,547      95          12         4,146      41           10         6,062      67           12         5,704      75           13
Local nontax revenue    12,329        123          16         6,822      68           16        11,780     132           23         7,471      99           18
Subtotal local
revenue            21,876    218           28        10,968      109          25        17,806      199          34        13,175     174           31
Surcharge & shared
taxes                   35,372    352            46        13,536     135           31        20,277     227           39         8,171     108          19
Central grants            19,705      196          25        16,573     145           38        13,850     155           27        15,130    200           36
Subtotal central
source revenue   55,077    548             71        30,109    280            69        34,127      382          56        22,301     308           55
Other resources               531       5           1         2,262      23            5             -       -            -         5,970      79           14
Total                77,484    772          100        43,339    432           100        51,933      581         100        42,446    562           100
Note:  For this exhibit and others that follow in this annex, columnar data may not add up due to rounding.
Source: Local Government Finance Division, DOLA.



- 65 -                             ANNEX 11
Table 2
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Tax Collection Departments and Allocation Procedures
and Criteria for Surcharge and Shared Taxes
Tax
Surcharge or     Dollection
Shared Tax      Department    Allocation Procedures and Criteria
Business         Revenue,       By MOI, according to 1960 share of business
customs        tax collections to all local, government
organizations.
Entertainment    Revenue        By Revenue Department district offices direct
to local government organizations according to
actual local collections.
Liquor and       Excise         By MOI, according to population to all local
non-alcoholic                   government organizations.
beverages
Petroleum &      Excise         By MOI, according to population to all local
petroleum                       government organizations.
products
Vehicle          Land           By DOLA Provincial Finance Officer:  50%
Transport,    divided equally among municipalities; 25%
Police         divided among sanitary districts; 25% to
Provincial Adminsitrative Organization.
Rice export      Customs        By MOI, 50% to BMA, Pattaya, and
municipalities which is distributed according
to population; 50% to sanitary districts which
is distributed on the same basis.



- 66 -                            ANNEX 11
Table 3
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Municipal Development Fund Accounts for the Four Project Cities
As of September 30, 1981
(B million)
Chiang Mai      Khon Kaen       Korat       Songkhla
Accumulated
contributions                 20.8             6.2          13.8          4.5
Loans outstanding                 2.3            0.6           1.0          2.0
Loans approved but
not disbursed                   2.0            2.5            -            -
Potential borrowing
level without
interest                      16.5             3.1          12.8          2.5
Source: Local Government Finance Division, DOLA.



- 67-                               ANNEX 11
Table 4
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Development Fund (MDF)
Statement of Financial Position
as of September 30, 1981
(B million)
1977      1978       1979       1980      1981
Accumulated contributions          347.9      361.5     379.0      395.9      407.3
Net accumulated earnings            84.3       96.0      108.9     124.7      147.6
Total Resources                  432.2      457.5     487.9      520.5      544.9
Loans outstanding                  330.3      371.6      396.4     405.7      461.4
Total Available Funds            101.9       85.9      91.4      112.8       93.4
Source: Local Government Finance Division, DOLA.



- 68 -
ANNEX 11
Table 5
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chiang Mai Municipality
Statement of Revenues, 1977-82
(Baht '000)
Actual                   Budget
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Local Taxes
House and buildings               5,544   8,294   9,014   8,613   7,236  11,380
Land development                    691     857      899      876      821   1,220
Sign                                788     730      789      858      879     870
Slaughter                           672     636      581      428     611      800
Subtotal                      7,695   10,517  11,283  10,775   9,547  14,270
Local Nontax Revenue
Fees, fines and permits          2,949   3,407   4,238   4,226   5,184   6,107
Property revenue                 2,199   2,004   2,081   2,750   3,206   3,149
Miscellaneous revenues           4,075   3,524   3,612   5,135   3,939   6,082
Subtotal                      9,223   8,935            12,113  12,329  15,338
Total Local Revenue          16,918  19,452  21,216  22,888  21,876  29,608
Surcharge Taxes
Business                         3,218   8,551   7,376   8,965  11,184  12,500
Liquor and beverage                 687     837   1,039       966   1,215   1,230
Entertainment                    1,315   1,390   1,440   1,195   1,104   1,500
Petroleum and petroleum
products                           -        -        -        -     270      243
Subtotal                      5,220  10,778   9,855  11,126  13,773  15,473
Shared Taxes
Rice export                         123     175      148      177       85     175
Vehicle                         14,890  12,650  13,976  17,469  21,514  21,857
Subtotal                     15,013  12,825  14,124  17j646  21,599  22,032
Total Surcharge and
Shared Taxes               20,233  23,603  23,979  28,772  35,372  37,505
Grants                              9,888  12,414  17,803  14,997  19,705  20,307
Other Resources
Reserves                              -       -        -   5,142       531  11,323
Loans                                                           -        -       -
Total Other Resources             -        -        -   5,142      531        -
Total Resources              47,039  55,469  63,003  711803  77,484  98,743



- 69 -
ANNEX 11
Table 6
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT- PROJECT
Korat Municipality
Statement of Revenues 1977-82
(Baht 000)
Actual                     Budget
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981        1982
Local Taxes
House and buildings             3,916   3,906   4,022   4,122   4,421    4,200
Land development                    46      41       38       40      37        40
Sign                              730      711      782      804     871       800
Slaughter                         794      913      917      754     679       831
Subtotal                     5,486   5,571   5,759   5,720   6,026    5,871
Local Nontax Revenue
Fees, fines and permits         1,983   2,459   2,609   2,328   2,483    2,448
Property revenues               4,518   4,428   4,692   5,363   6,861    6,653
Miscellaneous revenues          1,207   1,845   1,694   2,168   2,436    2,206
Subtotal                     7,708   8,732   8,996   9,860  11,780   11,307
Total Local Revenue         13,194  14,303  14,755  15,580  17,806   17,178
Surcharge Taxes
Business                        2,796   5,334   6,068   7,043   9,065   13,496
Liquor and beverage                560     433      748      942     979    1,530
Entertainment                      631     687      640      673     731       805
Petroleum and petroleum
products                          -        -        -        -     303       323
Subtotal                     3,987   6,454   7,456   8,658  11,078   16,154
Shared Taxes
Rice export                        122      88       92      134     135       244
Vehicle                         4,079   5,154   4,870   3,223   9,064    5,978
Subtotal                     4,201   5,242   4,962   3,357   9,199    6,222
Total Surcharge and
Shared Taxes               8,188  11,696  12,418  12,015  20,277   22,376
Grants                            3,757   7,154  10,932  10,523  ;3,850   11,643
Other Resources
Reserves                             -       -       33        -       -   12,139
Loans                                                 -  
Total Other Resources            -        -       33       -        -   12,139
Total Resources             25,139  33,153  38,143  38,122  51,933   63,336



- 70 -
ANNEX 11
Table 7
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Khon Kaen Municipality
Statement of Revenues, 1977-82
(Baht 000)
Actual                     Budget
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981        1982
Local Taxes
House and buildings             1,715   1,869   2,007   2,541   3,013    3,500
Land development                  129      148     131      200      144      260
Sign                              381      395     448      470      605      550
Slaughter                         283      351     364      365      384      362
Subtotal                     2,508   2,763   2,950   3,576   4,146    4,672
Local Nontax Revenue
Fees, fines and permits         1,026   1,289   1,423   1,385   1,666    1,657
Property revenues               2,308   2,262   2,629   2,543   3,396    3,530
Miscellaneous revenues            855      727   5,284   2,210   1,760        857
Subtotal                     4,189   4,278   9,338   6,138   6,822    6,044
Total Local Revenue          6,697   7,041  12,288   9,715  10,968   10,716
Surcharge Taxes
Business                        2,267   2,811   3,150   3,828   4,776    4,786
Liquor and beverage               495      626     820      568      868      711
Entertainment                     395      363     413      489      512      563
Petroleum and petroleum
products                          -        -       -       94     248       235
Subtotal                     3,157   3,800   4,383   46, 44 6,295
Shared Taxes
Rice export                       108       88       85     192       67      221
Vehicle                         5,241   5,392   5,396   6,322   7,065    6,000
Subtotal                     5,349   5,480   5,481   6,514   7,132    6,221
Total Surcharge and
Shared Taxes             8,506        9,280   9,864  11,493  13,536   12,516
Grants                            9,210   8,697  12,883  13,365  16,573   17,216
Other Resources
Reserves                            -        -     124        -   1,471   11,276
Loans                               -        -        -       -      791         -
Total Other Resources            -        -     124        -   2,262   11,276
Total Resources             24,413  25,018  35,164  34,578  43,339   51,724



- 71 -
ANNEX 11
Table 8
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Songkhla Municipality
Statement of Revenues, 1977-82
(Baht 000)
Actual                    Budget
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981       1982
Local Taxes
House and buildings             2,400   2,616   3,873   4,262   5,051    4,250
Land development                  194     271      259     226      227       300
Sign                              112     118      122     156      149      156
Slaughter                         241     292      307     249      277      270
Subtotal                    2,947   3,297   4,561   4,893   5,704    4,976
Local Nontax Revenue
Fees, fines and permits         1,208   1,214   2,319   1,121   1,608    1,438
Property revenues               1,584   1,840   2,140   2,815   3,388    3,542
Miscellaneous revenues          2,320   1,171   8,456   1,676   2,475    2,816
Subtotal                    5,112   4,225  12,916   5,614   7,471    7,796
Total Local Revenue         8,059   7,522  17,477  10,507  13,175   12,772
Surcharge Taxes
Fees, fines and permits         1,207   1,464   1,067   2,672   1,570    4,289
Liquor and beverage               391     496      364     720      791    1,248
Entertainment                     174     197      228     338      288      386
Petroleum and petroleum
products                          -       -        -       -      232      345
Subtotal                    1,772   2,157   1,659   3,730   2,881    6,268
Shared Taxes
Rice export tax                    85      63       67     149       65       217
Vehicle registration            2,887   3,047   3,124   2,821   5,225    5,858
Subtotal                    2,972   3,110   3,191   2,970   5,290    6,075
Total Surcharge and
Shared Taxes             4,774   5,267   4,850   6,700   8,171   12,343
Grants                            7,872   7,330  11,068  15,418  15,130   13,194
Other Resources
Reserves                            -       -        -   3,500   5,970          -
Loans                                                        -        -
Total Other Resources            -       -        -   3,500   5,970         -
Total Resources            20,680  20,119  33,407  36,130  4.2,446   38,309



-72 -                                          ANNEX 11
Table 9
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chiang Mai Municipality
Forecast Statement of Revenues, 1983-88
(Baht '000)
1983       1984      1985         1986         1987       1988
Local Taxes
House and buildings                   12,130    13,610    i5,270        17,133       19,223      21,569
Tax rate and assessment
improvements                           -      2,894      5,789       8,683      11,578      14,472
Land development                       1,017      1,102      1,195        1,295       1,404       1,52.2
Tax roll and assessment
improvements                           -        164        328         493         657         821
Sign                                     964      1,031      1,103       1,179        1,262       1,349
Slaughter                                472        472        472         472          472         47:2.
Subtotal                           14,583    19,273    24,157        29,255      34,596      40,20'
Local Nontax Revenue
Fees, fines and permits                5,998      6,888      7,209       8,278        9,506      10,916
Rate increase                            -        518      1,037       1,555        2,074       2,592
Property revenue                       3,200      3,200      3,200        3,200       3,200       3,200
Miscellaneous revenues                 4,057      4,057      4,057       4,057        4,057       4,05i'
Subtotal                           13,255    14,663    15,503        17,090      18,837      20,76'5
Total Local Revenues               27,838    33,936    39,660        46,345      53,433      60,970
Surcharge Taxes
Business                              13,120    15,689    18,760        22,434      26,826       32,079'
Liquor and beverage                    1,547      1,857      2,229       2,677        3,213       3,858
Entertainment                          1,237      1,237      1,237       1,237        1,237       1,237
Petroleum and petroleum
products                               266        266        266         266          266         266'
Subtotal                           16,170    19,049    22,492        26,614      31,542      37,440
Shared Taxes
Rice export                               136        136        136         136         136         13C
Vehicle                               21,715    24,084    26,712        29,626      32,858       36,443
Subtotal                           21,851    24,220    26,848        29,762      32,994      36,574
Total Surcharge and Shared
Taxes                            38,021    43,269    49,340        56,376      64,536      74,019
Grants                                  18,148    18,679    19,310        20,058       20,941      21,979
Total Resources Excl. Project   84,007    95,884   108,310    122,779    138,910    156,9683
Project Resources
Specific grants                             -          -     4,192      72,674      72,800       60,884
Loans from central government               -          -     3,480      72,420            -
Subtotal                                -          -      7,672    145,094       72,800      60,884
Total Resources                    84,007    95,884   115,982    267,873    211,710    217,852



73                                      ANNEX 11
Table 10
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korat Municipality
Forecast Statement of Revenues 1983-88
(Baht '000)
1983    1984    1985       1986      1987      1988
Local Taxes
House and buildings                   4,682   4,950   5,234    5,534    5,851    6,186
Tax roll and asessment
improvements                              1,768   3,537    5,305    7,074    8,842
Land development                         50       50       50        50        50        50
Tax roll and assessment
improvements                                  7       15        22        30       37
Sign                                    914      966   1,020    1,078    1,138    1,202
Slaughter                               742      742      742       742       742       742
Subtotal                           6,388   8,483  10,598   12,731   14,885   17,059
Local Nontax Revenue
Fees, fines and permits               2,735   2,876   3,024    3,180    3,345    3,517
Rate increase                                 248      497       745       993    1,242
Property revenue                      5,172   5,172   5,172    5,172    5,172    5,172
Miscellaneous revenue                 1,870   1,870   1,870    1,870    1,870    1,870
Subtotal                           9,777  10,166  10,563   10,967   11,380   11,801
Total Local Revenue               16,165  18,649  21,161   23,698   26,265   28,860
Surcharge Taxes
Business                             11,160  13,712  16,848   20,701   25,435   31,252
Liquor and beverage                   1,329   1,625   1,985    2,426    2,965    3,624
Entertainment                           794      858      926    1,000    1,080    1,166
Petroleum and petroleum
products                              252      254      256       259       261       263
Subtotal                          13,535  16,449  20,015   24,386   29,741   36,305
Shared Taxes
Rice export                             136      145      154       164       174       185
Vehicle                               5,980   6,732   7,578    8,530    9,603   10,810
Subtotal                           6,116   6,877   7,732    8,694    9,777   10,995
Total Surcharge and Shared
Taxes                           19,651  23,326  27,747   33,080   39,518   47,300
Grants                                 12,851  13,058  14,668   15,855   17,434   19,431
Total Resources Excl. Project  48,667  55,033  63,576   72,633   83,217   95,591
Project Resources
Specific grants                           -        -   2,029  109,298   74,140   18,005
Loans from central government             -        -        -   22,200   15,179    6,132
Subtotal                               -        - 2,029  131,498   89,319   24,137
Total Resources                   48,667  55,033  65,605  204,131  172,536  119,728



- 74 -                                 ANNEX 11
Table 11
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Khon Kaen Municipality
Forecast Statement of Revenues, 1983-88
(Baht '000)
1983    1984    1985      1986      1987      1988
Local Taxes
House and buildings                  4,019   4,642   5,363    6,193    7,153    8,262
Tax roll and assessment
improvements                         -   1,205  -2,410    3,616    4,821    6,026
Land development                       171      178      185      193       200      209
Tax roll and assessment
improvements                         -       29      58        86       115      144
Sign                                   621      686     758       838       926    1,023
Slaughter                              425      455     487       521       557      596
Subtotal                          5,236   7,195   9,260   11,447   13,812   16,260
Local Nontax Revenue
Fees, fines and permits              1,902   2,148   2,426    2,740    3,094    3,494
Rate increase                          -      167     333       500       666      833
Property revenues                    3,500   3,500   3,500    3,500    3,500    3,500
Miscellaneous revenues               2,167   2,167   2,167    2,167    2,167    2,167
Project revenues                         -        -     430       408       386       247
Subtotal                          7,569   7,982   8,856    9,315    9,813   10,241
Total Local Revenue              12,805  15,177  18,116   20,762   23,625   26,501
Surcharge Taxes
Business                             5,244   6,067   7,019    8,120    9,394   10,868
Liquor and beverage                    984   1,125   1,287    1,472    1,684    1,926
Entertainment                          583      649     723       804       895      996
Petroleum and petroleum
products                             191      203     214       227       239      254
Subtotal                          7,002   8,044   9,243   10,623   12,212   14,044
Shared Taxes
Rice export                            137      149      163      178       194      212
Vehicle                              7,723   8,577   9,525   10,579   11,749   13,048
Subtotal                          7,860   8,726   9,688   10,757   11,943   13,260
Total Surcharge and Shared
Taxes                          14,862  16,770  18,931   21,380   24,155   27,304
Grants                                16,323  17,507  18,801   20,218   23,578   25,226
Total Resources Excl. Project  43,990  49,454  55,848   62,360   71,358   79,031
Project Resources
Specific grants                          -        -   3,089   52,450   64,382   21,810
Loans from central government            -        -       -   37,744    4,456    1,200
Subtotal                              -        -   3,089   90,194   68,838   23,010
Total Resources                  43,990  49,454  58,937  152,554  140,196  102,041



75 -                                 ANNEX 11
Table 12
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Songkhla Municipality
Forecast Statement of Revenues, 1983-88
(Baht '000)
1983    1984    1985       1986     1987      1988
Local Taxes
House and buildings                   5,054   5,812   6,684    7,687    8,840   10,166
Tax roll and assessment
improvements                         -   2,020   4,041    6,061    8,082   10,102
Land development                        252     259      267       275       284      292
Tax roll and assessment
improvements                          -      45       91       136      182       227
Sign                                    175     194      215       239       265      294
Slaughter                               297     307      318       329       340      352
Subtotal                          5,778   8,637  11,616   14,727   17,993   21,433
Local Nontax Revenue
Fees, fines and permits               2,227   2,563   2,949    3,393    3,905    4,493
Rate increase                           -     161      322       482      643       804
Property revenues                     2,353   2,353   2,353    2,353    2,353    2,353
Miscellaneous revenues                3,220   3,220   3,220    3,220    3,220    3,220
Subtotal                          7,880   8,297   8,844    9,448   10,121   10,870
Total Local Revenue              13,658  16,934  20,460   24,175   28,114   32,303
Surcharge Taxes
Business                              2,309   2,638   3,013    3,442    3,932    4,492
Liquor and beverage                     841     975   1,131    1,311    1,520    1,763
Entertainment                           343     376      412       452       495       543
Petroleum and petroleum
products                              210     219      228       238      248       259
Subtotal                          3,703   4,208   4,784    5,443    6,195    7,057
Shared Taxes
Rice export                             120      136     155       175       199       226
Vehicle                               4,587   5,092   5,652    6,274    6,964    7,730
Subtotal                          4,707   5,228   5,807    6,449    7,163    7,956
Total Surcharge and Shared
Taxes                           8,410   9,436  10,591   11,892   13,358   15,013
Grants                                 16,041  17,493  19,184   21,166   23,492   26,268
Total Resources Excl. Project  38,109  43,863  50,235   57,233   64,964   73,584
Project Resources
Specific grants                           -       -   3,056   45,464  100,816   45,450
Loans from central government             -       -   7,050   11,450   10,500    8,400
Subtotal                              -        -  10,106   56,914  111,316   53,850
Total Resources                  38,109  43,863  60,341  114,147  176,280  127,434



ANNEX 1 1
- 76 -                                                                  Table 13
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chiang Mai Municipality
Su2mary Statement of Revenues and Expenditures, 1977-88
(Baht '000)
Actual                        Budget                             Forecast
1977     1978      1979      1980      1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
Revenues
Local taxes                        7,695   10,517   11,283   10,775    9,547        14,270     14,583    19,273    24,157    29,255    34,596    40,205
Local nontax revenue               9,223    8,935    9,933   12,113   12,329        15,338    13,255    14,663    15,503    17,090    18,837    20, 765
Total Local Revenue           16,918   19,452   21,216   22,888   21,876    29,608    27,838    33,936    39,660    46,345    53,433    60,970
Surcharge and shared taxes          20,233   23,603   23,979   28,772   35,372    37,505    38,021          43,269    49,340    56,376    64,536    74,019
Grants                               9,888   12,414   17,803   14,997   19,705    20,307         18,148    18,679       19,310    20,058    20,941    21,979
Other resources                          -         -         -    5,142        531    11,323           -          -          -          -          -          -
Total Resources Excl.
Project                     47,039   55,469   63,003   71,803   77,484    98,743    84,007    95,884   108,310   122,779   138,910   156,968
Project resources                        -         -         -         -         -          -          -          -      7,672   145,094    72,800    60,884
Total Resources               47,039   55,469   63,003   71,803   77,484    98,743    84,007    95,884   115,982   267,873   211,710   217,852
Expenditures
Operating expenses
Salaries and wages                17,993   19,891   23,940   30,458   34,572    40,381    45,435    51,932    59,359    67,847    77,549    83,638
General                            9,084   13,998   10,162   15,546   17,636    25,211    23,000    26,450    30,418    34,980    40,227    46,261
Project O0M                            -         -         -         -        -          -           -          -          -        300     1,600      3,100
Total Operating Expenses      27,077   33,889   34,102   46,004   52,208    65,592    68,435    78,382    89,777   103,127   119,376   132,999
Debt service                           912       912         -       583         -        206          -          -        300      2,600     6,600      9,000
Capital expenditure                 11,632   17,941    8,129   16,472   14,175    21,424         13,596    15,186    13,263        6,470      2,695      1,919
Special expenditure                  2,373    3,939    4,150    6,246    5,918         9,431           -          -     9,972   152,594    79,500    69,884
Total Expenditures            41,994   56,681   46,381   69,305   72,301    96,653    82,031    93,568   113,312   264,791   208,171   213,802
Surplus (Deficit)              4,045   (1,212)  16,622    2,498    5,183          2,090      1,976      2,316      2,670      3,082      3,539      4,050
Cumulative surplus                   6,909    5,697   22,319   24,817   30,000    32,090    34,066    36,382    39,052    42,134    45,673    49,723
Local taxes as X of
operating expenses                  28.4      31.0      33.1     23.4      18.3       21.8       21.3       24.6       26.9        28.4      29.0       30.2
Total local revenues as % of
operating expenses                  62.5      57.4      62.2     49.8      41.9       45.1       40.7       43.3        44.2      44.9       44.8       45.8
Local revenues plus shared
and surcharge taxes as x
of operating expenses              137.2    127.0    132.5    112.3    109.7         102.3       96.2       98.5       99.1        99.6      98.8      101.5
Local taxes as X of total
resources (excl. project)           16.4      19.0     17.9      15.0      12.3       14.5       17.4       20.1        22.3      23.8       24.9       25.6
Shared and surcharge taxes
as 2 of total resources
(excl. project)                     43.0     42.6      38.1      40.1      45.7       38.0       45.3       45.1       45.6       45.9       46.5       47.2
Grants as I of total resources
(excl. project)                     21.0      22.4     28.3      20.9      25.4       20.6       21.6       19.5       17.8       16.3        15.1      14.0



- 77 -                                                                  ANNEX 11
Table 14
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korat Municipality
Summary Statement of Revenues and Expenditures 1977-88
(Baht '000)
Actual                        Budget                            Forecast
1977     1978      1979      1980      1981       1982      1983       198'       1985       1986       1987       1988
Revenues
Local taxes                       5,486    5,571    5,759    5,720    6,026         5,871      6,388      8,433    10,598    12,731    14,885    17,059
Local nontax revenue              7,708    8,732    8,996    9,860   11,780    11,307          9,777    10,166    10,563    10,967    11,380    11,801
Total Local Revenue           13,194   14,303   14,755   15,580   17,806    17,178    16,165    18,649    21,161    23,698    26,265    28,860
Surcharge and shared taxes        8,188   11,696   12,418   12,015   20,277    17,491    22,376    23,3.26    27,747    33,080    39,518    47,300
Grants                            3,757    7,156   10,932   10,523   13,850    11,643    12,851    13,058    14,668    15,855    17,434    19,431
Other resources                       -         -        33         -        -    12,139           -          -          -          -          -          -
Total Resources Excl.
Project                     25,139   33.153   38,143   38,122   51,933    63,336    48,667    55,033    63,576    72,633    83,217    95,591
Project resources                      -        -         -         -         -         -          -          -      2,029   131,498    89,319    24,137
Total Resources               25,139   33,153   38,143   38,122   51,933    63,336    48,667    55,033    65,605   204,131   172,536   119,728
Expenditures
Operating expenses
Salaries and wages            10,862   11,497   12,020   18,391   19,899    23,134    26,515    30,492    35,066    40,326    46,375    53,331
General                        4,600    3,309    6,741    8,925    7,916         8,304    10,900    12,535    14,415    16,578    19,064    21,924
Project O&M                                                                                                       2,300     4,300      5,500      8,900
Total Operating Expenses    15,462   14,806   18,761   27,316   27,815    31,438    37,415    43,027    51,781    61,204    70,939    84,155
Debt service                           -        -         -       809         -          -         -          -        200      1,300      3,300     4,800
Capital expenditures              7,376   11,800   12,669    6,848    9,679    19,337    10,178    10,747            8,879      3,926     3,905      2,251
Special expenditures              2,323       123    1,406   11,998    3,086    12,139             -          -      3,278   135,998    92,419    26,237
Total Expenditures            25,161   26,729   32,836   46,971   40,580    62,914    47,593    53,774    64,138   202,428   170,563   117,443
Surplus (Deficit)                (22)   6,424    5,307   (8,849)  11,353           422      1,074      1,2i9      1,467      1,703     1,973      2,285
Cumulative surplus (deficit)   (4,202)   2,222    7,496   (1,353)  10,000    10,422    11,496    12,755    14,222    15,925    17,898    20,183
Local taxes as 2 of
operating expenses              35.5      37.6      30.7     20.9      21.7       18.7       17.1       19,6       20.5       20.8      21.0       20.3
Total local revenues as 2 of
operating expenses              85.3      96.6      78.6     57.0      64.0       54.6       43.2       43.3       40.9       38.7      37.0       34.3
Local revenues plus shared
and surcharge taxes as Z
of operating expenses          138.3    175.6    223.8    101.0    136.9         110.3      103.0       97.6       94.5       92.8      92.7       90.5
Local taxes as Z of total
resources (excl. project)       21.8      16.8      15.1     15.0      11.6        9.3       13.1       15.4       16.7       17.5      17.9       17.8
Surcharge and shared taxes
as 2 of total resources
(excl. project)                 32.6      35.3     32.6      31.5      39.0       27.6       46.0       42,4      43.6       45.5       47.5       49.5
Grants as 2 of total
resources (excl. project)       14.9      21.6      28.7     27.6      26.7       18.4       26.4       23.7       23.1       21.8      21.0       20.3



- 78 -
ANNEX 11
Table 15
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Khon Kaen Municipality
Summary Statement of Nevenues and Expenditures, 1977-88
(Baht '000)
Actual                         Budget                            Forecast
1977      1978     1979      1980      1981       1982       1983        1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
Revenues
Local taxes                        2,508    2,763    2,950    3,576    4,146          4,672      5,236      7,195      9,260     11,447     13,812    16,260
Local nontax revenue               4,189    4,278    9,338    6,138    6,822          6,044      7,569      7,982      8,426      8,907      9,427      9,994
Project revenues                       -         -         -         -         -          -          -          -        430        408        386        247
Total Local Revenue             6,697    7,041   12,288    9,715   10,968        10,716    12,805       15,177     18,116    20,762      23,625     26,501
Surcharge and shared taxes         8,506    9,280    9,864   11,493   13,536    12,516          14,862     16,770    18,931      21,380    24,155    27,304
Grants                             9,210    8,697   12,883   13,365   16,573         17,216     16,323    17,507      18,801     20,218    23,578    25,226
Other resources                        -         -       124         -    2,262      11,276          -          -          -          -          -           -
Total Resources Excl.
Project                     24,413   25,018   35,164   34,578   43,339    51,724    43,990    49,454    55,848    62,360    71,358    79,031
Project resources                        -         -         -         -         -          -          -          -      3,089    90,194    68,838    23,010
Total Resources                24,413   25,018   35,164   34,578   43,339    51,724    43,990    49,454    58,937   152,554   140,196   102,041
Expenditures
Operating expenses
Salaries and wages               9,973   10,963   12,072   16,954   20,187    24,077    26,966    30,202    33,826    37,886    42,432    42,524
General administration           5,385    5,378    6,451   10,071    6,435         7,475      8,372       9,377     10,502     11,762     13,174    14,754
Project O&M                          -         -         -         -         -          -          -          -      2,300      4,300      5,500      8,900
Total Operating Expenses    15,358   16,341   18,523   27,025   26,622    31,552    35,338    39,579    46,628    53,948    61,106    66,178
Debt service                           -         -         -         -         -        250        600        500        775      2,150      4,225      5,500
Capital expenditure                3,415    4,060   11,219    2,017    6,619          7,994      7,222      8,417      6,222      2,010      2,994      2,539
Special expenditure                2,943       730    1,884        879    4,987      11,276          -          -      4,501    93,182    70,438    26,210
Total Expenditures            21,716   21,131   31,626   29,921   38,228    51,072    43,160    48,496             57,826   151,290   138,763   100,427
Surplus (Deficit)               2,697    3,887    3,538    4,657    5,111            652        830        958      1,111      1,264      1,433      1,614
Cumulative surplus                  (2,193)   1,694    5,232    9,889   15,000    15,652          16,482     17,440     18,551     19,815    21,248    22,862
Local taxes as % of
operating expenses                  16.3      16.9      15.9      13.2      15.6       14.8       14.8       18.2       19.8       21.2       22.6       24.5
Total local revenue as % of
operating expenses                  43.6      43.1      66.3      35.9      41.2       34.0       36.2       38.3       38.9       38.5       38.7       40.0
Local revenues plus shared
and surcharge taxes as X
of operating expenses               99.0      99.9    119.6       78.5      92.0       73.6       78.3       80.7       79.5       78.1       78.2       81.3
Local taxes as X of total
resources (excl. project)           10.3      11.0       8.4      10.3       9.6        9.0       11.9       14.5       16.7       18.5       19.5       20.6
Shared and surcharge taxes
as X of total resources
(excl. project)                     34.8      37.1      28.1      33.2      31.2       24.2       33.8       33.9       34.2       34.5       34.0       34.7
Grants as % of total
resources (excl. project)           37.7      34.8      36.6      38.7      38.2       33.3       37.1       35.4       33.9       32.6       33.2       32.0



- 79 -                                                                  ANNEX 11
Table 16
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Songkhla Municipality
Summary Statement of Revenues and Expenditures, 1977-88
(Baht '000)
Actual                         Budget                            Forecast
1977      1978     1979      1980      1981       1982       1983        1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
Revenues
Local taxes                        2,947     3,297    4,561    4,893    5,704         4,976      5,778      8,637     11,616    14,727    17,993    21,443
Local nontax revenue               5,112    4,225   12,916    5,614    7,471          7,796      7,880      8,297      8,844      9,448     10,121     10,870
Total Local Revenue             8,059    7,522   17,477   10,507   13,175    12,772    13,658    16,934    20,460    24,175    28,114    32,303
Surcharge and shared taxes         4,744    5,267    4,850    6,700    8,171         12,343      8,410      9,436     10,591     11,892    13,358      15,013
Grants                             7,872    7,330   11,068   15,418   15,130    13,194    16,041           17,493    19,184    21,166    23,492    26,268
Other resources                        -         -         -    3,500    5,970        1,703          -          -          -          -          -          -
Total Resources Excl.
Project                     20,680   20,119   33,407   36,130   42,446    40,012    38,109    43,863    50,235    57,233    64,964    73,584
Project resources                         -        -         -         -         -          -          -          -    10,106    56,914   111,316    53,850
Total Resources                20,680   20,119   33,407   36,130   42,446    40,012    38,109    43,863    60,341   114,147   176,280   127,434
Expenditures
Operating expenses
Salaries and wages               8,681    9,334   12,648   15,377   17,193    20,019    24,131    27,751            31,913    36,700    42,205    48,536
General administration           2,765    2,530    3,842       3,784    4,777       6,759      6,840      7,798      8,890    10,134    11,553    13,171
Project O&M                          -         -         -         -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Total Operating Expenses    11,446   11,864   16,490   19,161   21,970    26,778    30,971    35,549    40,803    46,834    53,758    61,707
Debt service                         605       605       604       604       605        605        605        605        905      1,705      2,705      3,905
Capital expenditure                2,184    3,845    7,081       4,128    5,211      10,294      5,871      6,918      7,495      6,612      6,257      5,553
Special expenditure                3,713       732       842    8,127    9,156        1,703          -          -    10,206    57,914   112,316    54,850
Total Expenditures             17,948   17,046   25,017   32,020   36,942    39,380    37,447    43,072    59,409   113,065   175,036   126,015
Surplus (Deficit)               2,732    3,073    8,390    4,110    5,504            632        662        791        932      1,082      1,244      1,419
Cumulative surplus                   8,093   11,166   19,556   20,166   19,700    18,629    19,291    20,082    21,014    22,096    23,340    24,759
Local taxes as % of
operating expenses                  25.7      27.8      27.7      25.5      26.0       18.6       18.7       24.3       28.5       31.4       33.5       34.7
Total local revenue as % of
operating expenses                  70.4      63.4    106.0       54.8      60.0       47.7       44.1       47.6       50.1       51.6       52.3       52.3
Local revenues plus shared
and surcharge taxes as x
of operating expenses              111.9    107.8    135.4        89.8      97.2       93.8       71.3       74.2       76.1       77.t       77.1       76.7
Local taxes as % of total
resources (excl. project)           14.3      16.4      13.7      13.5      13.4       12.4       15.2       19.7       23.1       25.7       27.7       29.1
Shared and surcharge taxes
as 1 of total resources
(excl. project)                     22.9      26.2      14.5      18.5      19.3       30.8       22.1       21.5       21.1       20.8       20.6       20.4
Grants as % of total
resources (excl. project)           38.1      36.4      33.1      42.7      35.6       33.0       42.1       39.9       38.2       37.0       36.2       35.7



-80 -                             ANNEX 11
Table 17
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fish Marketing Organization
Statement of Income and Expenditures for FMO Port, Songkhla
(B million)
Actual                     Estimat:e
1980             1981               1982
Income
Fish landing fees                      2.14             3.34                3.41
Other fees                             0.65             0.73                0.92
Building and land rent                 0.37             0.38                0.40
Other income                           0.05                -                0.39
Total                              3.21              4.45               5.12
Expenditures
Personnel                              1.34             1.56                1.86
General administration                 0.26             0.34                0.43
Maintenance
Buildings and harbor                0.35              0.36               0.36
Equipment                           0.03              0.03               0.02
Vehicle                             0.02              0.03               0.03
Rent                                   0.08             0.07               0.09
Depreciation                           0.34             0.35               0.35
Other expenditures                     0.03             0.01               0.02
Total                              2.45              2.75               3.16
Net Income                         0.76              1.70               1.96



- 81-                              ANNEX 11
Table 18
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fish Marketing Organization
Statement of Income and Expenditures for
New Songkhla Fishport
(B million)
1990    1991    1992    1993
Income
Fish landing fees
Existing FMO users /a                           6.53    6.53    6.53    8.16
Private jetties users /b                        1.35    1.35    1.35    1.68
Municipal wharf users T7                        1.17    1.17    1.17    1.46
Other fees and income /d                          2.81    2.81    2.81    3.51
Total                                         11.86   11.86   11.86   14.81
Expenditures
Personnel /e                                      3.82    4.12    4.45    4.81
General administration /f                         0.98    1.06    1.14    1.23
Maintenance L8
Buildings                                       0.06    0.06    0.07    0.07
Harbor                                             -        -    0.21    0.22
Equipment                                       0.07    0.08    0.08    0.09
Vehicle                                         0.05    0.05    0.05    0.06
Total                                          4.98    5.37    6.00    6.48
Net Income Before Lease Rent to
Songkhla Municipality /h                      6.88    6.49    5.86    8.33
Lease rent under discussion                         4.50    4.50    4.50    5.62
/a  Assumes no growth in fish landings over current FMO port (1981 tonnages)
and increases in FMO fees by 25% every three years.
/b  Assumes private jetty users will use new port due to municLpal regulation
requiring the closing of private jetties. Assumes no growith in fish land-
ings over 1981 tonnages and increases in FMO fees by 25X elvery three
years.
/c  Municipal wharf users have been required to use FMO port beginning in
1982. Assumes no growth in fish landings over 1981 tonnages and increases
in FMO fees by 25% every three years.
/d  Assumes increase in fees from related activities (e.g., ice, fuel, etc.)
to increase over 1981 fees in proportion to additional tonnages of fish
landings at new port, with increases in the fees by 25% every three years.
/e  Assumes staff increase from 41 currently at old port to 50 at new port,
with salaries increasing at 8% p.a.
/f  See Project File for increases in general operation costs.  Assumes annual
increases in costs at 8% p.a.
/g See Project File for details. Assumes annual increases in costs at 6.5%
p.a. It is expected that lease agreement between Songkhla municipality
and FMO will require FMO to maintain the items which they currently
maintain at the old port.      -
/h' tse4  fSees payable to Songkhls y'tt'o b  fIekotiated.



- 82 -                               ANNEX 11
Table 19
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Songkhla Municipality
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(Current prices, million baht)
Inflows
Outflows                 FMO         Plot           Rent on
Civil                  lease        lease       land at old
Year          Land       works      O&M /a      fee /b      fees /a       fishport /a
1986          4.44         -          -           -             -
1987           -        102.46        -
1988           -         62.63        -           -             -
1989         15.95       54.92        -           -             -
1990           -           -         3.11        4.50        46.70            5.60
1991           -           -         3.27        4.50         15.50           5.88
1992           -           -         3.42        4.50        18.20            6.17
1993           -           -         3.60        5.60         17.40           6.48
1994           -           -         3.78        5.60         8.60            6.81
1995           -           -         3.97        5.60         9.50            7.15
1996           -           -         4.17        7.00         10.00           7.51
1997           -           -         4.38        7.00        10.60            7.88
1998           -           -         4.60        7.00         11.15           8.28
1999           -           -         4.83        8.75        11.50            8.69
2000           -           -         5.07        8.75        26.75            9.13
2001           -           -         5.32        8.75        31.15            9.58
2002           -           -         5.59       10.94        33.60           10.06
2003           -           -         5.87       10.94         31.05          10.56
2004           -           -         6.16       10.94         15.40          11.09
/a  For details, see Songkhla Fishport Supplementary Feasibility Study, Spe-
cial Report No. 2, March 1984, prepared by Sinclair Knight and Partners,
Sections 8-9.
/b Assumed to increase by 25% every three years.



- 83 -
ANNEX 12
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents Contained in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies
1   RCDP Preliminary Project Preparation, Final Report (7 vDlumes), February
1981, COWI Consult.
2. RCDP Municipal Management and Finance Study, Concept Report (3 Volumes),
June 1982. Multinational Management Co., Ltd.
3. RCDP Municipal Management and Finance Study. Final Report, November
1982. Multinational Management Co., Ltd.
4. Feasibility Studies for Regional Cities Development, Final Report (7
Volumes), April 1983, Sinclair Knight and Partners and Associated Thai
Consultants.
5. RCDP Songkhla Fishing Industry Review, February 1983, Sinclair Knight and
Partners and associated Thai Consultants.
6. RCDP, Technical Assistance in Valuation and Taxation of Real Property; (a)
Phase I, Final Report (2 Volumes), June 1982; and (b) Phase II, Final
Report December 1982, Horrigan Wilkinson and Associates.
7. Supplementary Feasibility Study Reports (various dates, 1984), Sinclair
Knight and Partners and associated Thai consultants.
B. Project File Working Papers
1. Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, May 23, 1983.
2. Procurement analysis
3. Financial analysis
4. Economic analysis
5. Detailed cost estimate worksheets
6. Employment generation analysis
7. Project monitoring indicators



- 84 -                            ANNEX 13
Page 1
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        In preparing this project, standard measures of benefits have been
applied in conducting the economic analysis. As a basis for this analysis, a
substantial amount of user data was collected to evaluate the number of
beneficiaries, the value of the individual benefits, and the estimated growth
factors for each. To support these evaluations an elaborate socio-economic
survey was conducted by the Department of Town and Country Planning in each of
the five cities. This survey included information on the number of house-
holds, by income grouping, for the different areas of the city. In addition a
special survey was conducted among households, commercial shop operators and
city maintenance officials to assess the damage, both out-of-pocket costs and
labor, to repair the damage from flooding. From this data, the benefits were
derived for providing flood protection in the project cities.
2.        The benefits for each of the components were as follows:
(a) Main Drainage and Flood Control
Quantified Benefits
(i)   reduced damage to households
(ii)   reduced damage to private business
(iii)   reduced damage to roads and other infrastructure
Non-quantified Benefits
(i)   improved public health improvements
(ii)   increased land values
(iii)   improved traffic flows
(iv)   reduced inconvenience to community causing disruption to
economic activities during the wet season
(b) Road Improvements
(i)   reduced vehicle operating cost with improved surface
(ii)   time savings with increased operating speeds
(c) Bridges
(i)   time savings with increased operating speeds
(ii)   reduced travel distances
Non-quantified Benefits
(i)   improved accessibility to new urban areas
(ii)   reduced congestion on other routes



- 85 -
ANN9X_ 13
Page 2
(d) Equipment
Improved city maintenance operations by reducing cost:s and improving
quality of service was a non-quantified benefit
(e)  Fishport and Commercial/Industrial Zone Development
(i)   improved handling operations of fish in port .
(ii)   increased land area for development of fish-belated
activities
(iii)   increased industrial development area for other industries
(iv)   released potentially high-valued commercial land in city
center
Non-quantified Benefits
(i)   improved sanitation/environmental conditions at the port
(ii)   increased employment opportunities in commercial areas
(f)  Slum Improvement
Quantified Benefits
Increased rental values of property
Non-quantified Benefits
(i)   improved all weather accessibility
(ii)   reduced property damage during wet season
(iii)   improved health conditions
(iv)   increased productivity of small-scale industries in -the
area
(g) Solid-Waste Disposal
Quantified Benefits
(i)   reduced operatir-_
(ii)   increased area of coverage
Non-quantified Benefits
Improved sanitary 'onditions



- 86 -                                                                    ANNEX 13
Table I
TRAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Fconomic Benefit Analysis
Benefits                                                             Sensitivity analysis
Ouantity                                 Economic
growth                                   growth          Cost  Benefits    % of total
Component                     Type                  Base quantity          rate (2)               Price              rate CT)  ERR  +20%    -20%    projec t costs
Chiang Mai
Main drainage        Flood damage                  3,700 households                  2    B 3,410/household                   -      52   36        36             2.9
0.4 sq km commercial           2.5    B 0.86 mlntsq km
6.2 km public roads            0.6     B 0.21 ml./mile
Roads                Vehicle operating cost    3 km                               3-5    Ave. oper. cost reduc-               -      32   NE        NP            13.2
Travel time                                                            tion 12%
Car owners                                                        B 16.5/hour
Motorcycle                                                        B 8.t/hour
Nonvehi cular                                                     B 5.7/hour
Bridge widening    Reduced travel tine             18,000 vpd                     0.5    See roads                          1.5      24   19        18             0.3
New bridge           Vehicle operating cost    15,000 vpd                            5    See roads                         1.5      33   28        27            13.9
Travel time
Slum upgrading       Rental value                  526 households                         B 185/month/household               -      13   10        11             1.3
Khon Baen
Main drains           Flood damage                 1,300 households                        See Chiang Mai                     -      17   NE        NE             -).4
Roads                Vehicle operating cost    5.3 'cm                               7    See Chiang Mai                      -      56   NE        NE             ;.3
savings
Time savings
Equipment            Reduced operating cost    Not quantified                                                                 -      NE    -         -             ').4
and higher efficiency
Solid waste          Operating cost savings    95,000 cu m                        7.5     B 10.76/cu m                        -      16   12        it             1.7
Korat
Main drains          Flood damage                  2,981 households                1.0    B 3,400/household                   -      24   19        18             t.5
0.20 sq km commercial        4.25     R 0.P6 mln/sq km
10.85 km roads                 1.5     B 0.21 m1n/km
Roads                Vehicle operating cost    3.3 km                             7.5    Ave. oper. cost reduc-               -      56   NE        NE           1%.5
tion 12-15%
Solid waste          Operating cost savings    125,600 cu m                       4.6     B 11.65/cu m                        -      13    9         8             2.5
Slum upgrading       Rental value                  618 households                         B 185/month/household               -      13   10        11             1.5
Songkbla
Main drains          Flood damage                  330 households                 2.5     B 3,300/household                   -      30   25        23             f.7
0.8 km public roads           nil    B 0.21 mbn/km
Roads                Vehicle operating cost    5.7 km                              5-7    Ave. oper. cost reduc-              -      45   NF        NE             6.1
savings                                                              tion 12-15%
Fishport             Increased efficiency          155,000 tons                   nil                                       1.5      18   16        16           21.5
Developed land                16 ha                                  B 8.4 mln/ha                       5
Released land                 3.4 ha                                 B 21.9 mlin/ha                     5
Slum upgrading
Improvement        Rental value                  601 households                         See Chiang Mai                      -      13   NE       NE             1.0
Solid waste          Operating cost savings    61,400 cu m                        6.3    B 5.23/cu m                          -      13    9         9             2,4
NE - Not estimated.



- 87 -
Exhibit A
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Municipal Organization Structure
Legislative Branch                                                                                    Executive Branch
lion Office  Accounts Section  SectIon         Pfannlng Section         & Recreati~~~on nir
8-24 Members Directny Elected for 5 Year Terms
bChalrmn, Mayor ond Municipal Councilors
are Anepointed froS Municipal Assembiy
Members by Provincial Governor                                                                          2 ow Ceiotie
Section~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2Dpte
Planing and                Fiac                    ulcHaI                    ngnwn                     dc                        uii
Town Cler                  Division                  Division                  Division                  Divis                  Enterorise
_-General Affalrs         - Gereral Affairs         -  Pubilc Health         - Public Works &          -Educai ion              -Pawn Shop
Section                  Section                   Center Service          iMalntenarce Section Iuione
- Population Registra-   - Finance &               -  Public Cleansing      - Surveying andi Town    - Socil'l '\        efre  - Water Worics (Korat onlY)
| tion Offce               Accounts Section          Section                  Planning Section         & Rec reation
- Fire i3rgade Sectlon   -Ilncorme Section         -  Slaughterhouses       - Pubilc Parks           -Schools
,-Legal Section          -SBenefits Section            Section                  Serction
-Public Relations       -Stores
Section
Intemaol Secunty
_Section
IPionning and 
EValuuotionI
Section' 
. _ __  _ __ _
Unit to Be Formed Under the Project
World Bank -25182



- 88 -                                                      Exhibit B
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overall Project Organization
Infrastructure   |tVND
Development                     *                    Technical Office for
Subcommittee                                          City aevelopment
World Bank-25183
,omteDrco                                                                           Ubr eeomn
.   7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ct
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P o i,E -ncialf                                                                  0     Impl ment tion0X )  



- 89 -
Exhibit C
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management and Implementatlon Organization
roect Manager
(Chief OUD)
PMU
DOLA
F                            ~~~~~~~~~~Office of urban
iNWD        |iDevelopment
Technical Office for                                                                            lrn kwetation
City DevelopmetUnt
AdmInIstration                 Firelgn MAlfrs
Sechon                        Sct ion    r
Intrastu,cture              M unicipal Systems            K   Town Cerk
DevloPment                     Deveopmentv
Scon                           Sechon
Erg-r---r-g  noge                       tnance &
En~~~neeri            D~~SoRatlngeI                                                         Accounts
Sec"onantaio                            -                                      a
Section                ~~~~~~Group                                                         Grou
Cowi tntsn Land                                       I                                               Panning &O
Acqulton & Dtaih ed                Roods GSoup                                                                                              T L  Ev ono  Cirk
EQnvi erlng                                                                                        z  ep              
Structures     ……                       I |-------                 Engineering      |                  Engineering
Laind                                                                ILandi
---                                                                        -      --   -          Acqistion
Section                                                                                            Gr ou
_   Administration    r        Precumrment      ____  ___   __;_____                        *      Rouremen        |
SectSpeoni on                            -
Group
- Reporting
Se     CoordnnSion                                                                                                                       Hbdid o-25334



co I
a   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             --------------- --------- - -s-
co    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                      a
012                                                                                                                                             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
WI                                                                     a                                                                                                                          a
a                 fo~~~~ a
K                                                                                                                                             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
- - - - - - - - - - - -                            -
*1  -  ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -----;-g---     --
C3                                                                                      Ca    u      0        ~        ~~     ~     ~~~~~~ a  a  a
-2  a                                                                                                                                                                     Ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a       
a    *C                                                                                                                                     a                                     a     a
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a2
S          C        CC                            a 
a  a  a     a                   a     S      a                                            a     S~~~~~~Zl                                                              , 
U'  a  a  a     a                   a     a      a                                    ~~     ~~ ~~~~~~A awae



- 91 -                                        Exhibit E
SONGIKiLA
RSHING PORT/INDSTRIAJ ESTATE
:   C'  '  ,.  ' ;,,',',,g'    ':'s,,,'.,,    's,,   M \N A W   . #
sot
"2',' i:" r
Y



C:0:  :      z 0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 



307o .                                         THAILAND
I                     REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
URBAN GROWTH CENTERS
20'hl.lns Ras                                 ~                   T-1 F0F-H PLA  OTS GNATED LRBAN GRO-TI CENITShE
/____                                |-   g   _ROADS
S]                        0 le535 Amon       Cle      PICI AL CAPITALS
11\  9   ( / \k>\   r   {                      - --   PROATECL L BONDARIES
I     \                           --.  -  b > ( (  NTE[ASATIUNAL BQUNDAR ES
7          >    hr    \  fLAO  PEOPLE'S
/v  / , ~      I ,-o~ 2, ,rq-W)   S       I   '.  J XhJ5 P4\L <NDEMOCRATIC
8  5 jJ/9  /tttr- )  grr           I A   1   S               REPUBLIC
I L-
ch'. .,h- ~ ~       ~       AA/ABA  500,TA       5',.
xS a    a-4   u\  < > / 1 Bt ,@>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (   i s
0'~~~~~ '\                                                                                                                              T O'<_b  
t~~~~~~t Tkw          nlo<_X        
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  PU ' C H L
- 5 ; ( - "                C. APSO
,  ->v-'-  ,2                                      --;  ' !,  1
,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
U-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
1- KR-                                                                       12- -~~~~0  ~  -
-.- S: lt 't . ~~~~~~~~DFAAOCRATIC
-   K    .  /l0'                                             1,                ~~~~~~~~KAMPUCHEA
PS5555"        55,5,,                            ;.-   BrMA~2 
-   f r / t (   ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~         .   . _         PLR~
B8                     Ph '        -                                                                                                  < 8 i )  N-VlETNAM
1,,-'e   P   ng  .                       TvA I AND
I .E \ .-AMP0CHEA`  N
-kh w  la                                                                . _
Kil- Eeters )-"                                                        -                              M A [ A Y S iA
0                     100                   200
I               I                                        '\~                                                             SINOAIOB
les                                                                                                        SINGAORE      
I oo             M A L A Y S I A                                         N D 0  N  E S I A



I
I
i
I



IBRD 17449
SEPTEM8ER 1983
THAILAND
REGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NAKHON RATCHASIMA
A T,~~~~~,
i ,;T~~TAPRAI RD                '    ~       's                   A4                       - @-,  i
;                                                D9AN/ YATX                P             D          5Persons/KI2h
|1iil ||More tha, 20,000                                     -    J r  t.0A PEC)PLE'S  *
7,500   20,000
PROPOSED PROJEC1 I                                                   2,000 -7,500                                               ;hgM Jr           . 
Road Improverments                                        I      ,Less than 2,000                                               ,     ieneo         \
Trunk Drain mprovemnents.-,                                         L InoeAa 
//             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-wInoeAe
j      .    ~~~~Slin) Improvement (Relocation &Infrastructure)                   ExsigSresB  ANGKCKO    
0           ~~~~~Saniltary Lardfill Site                                           alas,      ,(-    KAPOCHEA
l           ~~~Drcinage & Fosod Control 
5           ~~~~Wastewater Treotmerit                                            Riesc:,                                                                      -   0
O   O   S   13   1   5     2    o        4                                                                           -     -   M~~~~~N  A u n icip al   B o ur d ciries                        .  T; 7/ ,/d     ' '
Kli ~METERS                                                                                                         -       nferncitioncl Boundaries                                   Fo'a0
//""/"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6// ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 C/           AL    






THAILAND
REGIONAL  CITIES  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                                                        IERD 17448
PROPO'ED PROJECT
CHIANG MAI                                                       Road myn-ve-nis                                                                KHON  KCAEN
S) AMFOCF MlAF 55                                                   ''- ''  Trunk Dro- n Impsoeements
S.,(Reorion  & Infras, r ct ri)
D.ona& Fl.ood Cor lf_I
-       -       .~~~~~~~~~~---~~~~~~7      Rr~~~~~dgeI'
Rverfront Dve.opment             _ /
-Lr= 1,~                                            I)rg S 41;e+fX:                                                   0 ,?<" 
75.   C '/  ,                               /
e2 tan2000   - 7Y,'/00 
E L     hF,O              04
\    :    lot    t0   XM/'/tOF   HO0  '  -;'  '  -  .  | l \ /. T z.oMEvERS 5 W0METE5S / w,1 / 3 4 \ /~~~~~~~a incomeAreas  </n14          t                                          v
MO    0/5-                   nM-na anal B-onoania
5',                                                                            -     -
~~~~~~~~~~7i                                                                                                              -a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l l
-4-  /               1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c






IBRD 17447R1
BURMA
-J~LAO PROPLE'S
20   _,-   j            20°
r._  _       D~~EM. REP.   ~  0
T H A I L A N D                                     qChngMo    
\ EGIONAL CITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                            AND  '
N5\                                                                                         \. \Songkhla  BANGKOK  f
K\ KAMPUCHEA
\\  . Xik \                                                               _3 ,Gtllfo/ rhollon
Go, W, \  Se/( of Thco/ar7d                                  fha,0 G/f od M S
\\  X   S                                                  q   > 0<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ongEbbc
\L  X ,   ,."~~~~~~~~'~~~~'<               j~~                  5-      X',---,          S--
MTbs nOP fott tf-  rOdlVad bY
Th,, Word BwoOf OfEE odok*v*Eg
'N.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I"for*o o ,of ff0
CEOdO,of on. E   s
11080!411 Drsinoge & Flood Control            =    e /////               X     ////t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00004 E dooOdO ddff
PCt). PUp do no ONDENS, T  U.
Pad of EdotRfd ftoo =o Awdf
||||||1liljilill More than 20,000  *   7             Zc\V            X         7/ \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f -y 0,,,y  w
bwa0"Of ,,0tOL~    nnom
|  4 Railways  ll          X.                    @7                .       t  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Od,o,On r oopOn.o
Municipa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~loO  dooddorioo,t.   
O'S <ŽlARC 1985
KILOMETERS
PROPOSED PROJECT
Rood improvements
Trunk Drain Improvements
I Slum improvement
(Relocation & Infrastructurol)
L -rFishing Port Improvements
Sanitary Landfill Site
Railway Underpasses
F ~~Drainage & Flood Control
Ring Levee & Pumping Station,......
POPULATION  DENSITY                           K'
(Persons / Kin2)
J!1!1~l1IMore than 20f000
:7,500 -20,000
F  ]2,000 -7,500
Less than 2,000
Low Income Area
Existing Streets                               ,
.4....yRailways                         ' 
Rivers
Municipal Boundaries 
-  International Boundaries
MARCH 1988



