DCumnnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
C-lZ 2-i/ 3-' '-"-
Rewt No. 8139-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFOPR PROJECT
FEBRUARY 22, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Divison
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wow.d Bank authorization.



From January 1974 through August 1983, the Rwanda Franc (RF) was pegged to the US dollar at a
rate of exehange of USSlC0 = RuF 92.84. Since Septoebr 1988, the Rwanda Franc has been pegged
to the SDR at a rate of exchange of SDR 1.00 a RoF 102.71.
Annual Average
Year                                         USSI :
1982                                         RwF  92.84
1983                                         RwF  98.48
1984                                         RwF 103.86
1985                                         RvF  94.26
1988                                         RwF 87.64
1987                                         RwF  79.56
1986                                         RwF  76.45
ABBREVIATIONS A  ACROYMS
BCR                Boucherie Charcuterte du Rwanda
BNR               Banque Nationale du Rwanda
BRD                Banque Rwandalse do 0D6vloppeuent
BUNEP              Bureau National d'Etudes de Projets
Cco               Centrals Comptabl- et Organisation
IC                Comlt6 Interminist6ri.l de Coordination
CSR               Caisse Social. du Rwanda
EEC                European Economic Community
IDA               International Development Association
IGF                Inspection GQn6ral- des Finances (General Inspection of Finance)
IMF               International Monetary Fund
INR               Imprimerie National. du Rwanda
ISAR              Institute of Agricultural Research
ISFP              Institut Sup6rleur des F1nances Publiques
MINFIN            Ministre des Finances
MINIMART          MUn;ster de l'Industrie et do l'Artisanat
MINIPLAN          UMinistbre du plan
OCIR-Caft          Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwaada-Cf6
OCIR-Th6          Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda-Th6
ONATRACOM          Office National des Transports en Comun
OPYRWA             Office du Pyrethre du Rwanda
ORTPN             Office Rwandats du Tourisme et des Paros Nationaux
OVAPAM             Office do Is Valorlsatlon Pastorale et Agricol. du Muters
OVIBAR            Office de Valorisation Industrielle des Bananerates du Rwanda
PE                 Public Enterprise
SN                 Socl6t6 National.
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
SOMIRWA            Socl6t6 Mlni&re du Rwanda
SONATUBES         Soci6t6 National. des Tubes
SORWAL             Socilt6 Rwandaise des Alumettes
STIR               Soci6t6 des Transports Internationaux du Rwanda
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
iETRC SYSTEM



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE ROPJRK PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     -i
I.   THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A.  The Macroeconomic Setting .1
IDA-Government Policy Dialogue. . . . . . . . . . .      2
B. Sector Overview.                                                   3
Historical Perspective. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
Importance of the Public Enterprise Sector to
the  Economy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5
C.    Institutional and Legal Framework . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
Legal Structure.                                         6
Governoient Oversight. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6
Administration and Management . . . . . . . . . . .       7
Labor Law .8
D.   Government's Prior Attempts at PE Reform. . . . . . . . .       8
II. THE PROJECT   ..10
A.    Background. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      10
B.    Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11
C.    Rationale for IDA Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Rvanda in June-July 1989.  The mission was composed of
Messrs. Chuong N. thung (AF3IE); Pierre Guislain (LEGOP), Richard
Lacroix (consultant) and Ms. Susan Goldmark (AFTPS). Secretarial
support was provided by Ms. A.B. Cox (AFTPS).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



RVANDESE REPUBLIC
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page
D.   Description of the Project. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
(1)  Reduction of the State's Role in the Productive
Sectors  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..                12
(2)  Improvement of the Legal and Institutional
Framework    ..13
(3)  Enterprise Restructuring. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
(4)  Project Implementation and Institutional
Strengthening .16
Institutional Coordination and Implementation
of the Project. . . . . . . . . . . . ; . . .    16
Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry
if Finance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
III. THE IDA CREDIT. . ..23
A.   Project Costs, Financing and Use of Project Funds . . . .    23
B.   Project Implementation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
Project Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Procurement and Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . .    24
Special Account          ...25
Auditing and Reporting. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Benefits.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS. . . . . . . . . .          26



RWANDESE REPUBLIC
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RFPORM PROJECT
TEXT TABLES
1.    Characteristics of Selected Enterprises and Recommendations of
the Working Groups
2.    Second Group of Rwandese PEs to be Restructured Under
the Project
3.    Project Costs and Financing Plan (US$ thousand equivalent)
ANNEXES
Annex I
-     Table 1: List of Rwandese PEs
-     Table 2: Transfers between Public Enterprises and the Government
-     Table 3: Net Profits/Losses of Selected Rwandese PEs
-     Table 4: Arrears of 17 Rwandese Public Enterprises Owed to Third
Parties
Annex II
Public Enterprises Selected for Restructuring under the Project
Annex III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex IV
Government Policy Statement on Public Enterprise Reform
Annex V
Key Program Actions



RWANDESE REPUBLIC
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUHMARY
Borrowers                      Government of Rwanda
Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Finance
Credit Amountt                 SDR 3.4 million (US$4.4 million)
Terms:                         Standard IDA terms (40 years maturity)
Project
Description:      The project will provide technical assistance to the Government
to help carry out its public enterprise reform program in tha
following three areass (i) reform of the public enterprises'
institutional and legal framework; (ii) rehabilitation,
privatization or liquidation of selected public enterprises;
and (iii) development of a national capacity to design,
implement and monitor PE reforms. The proceeds of the IDA
Credit would be used for: (i) technical assistance and
equipment to (a) revise public enterprise legislation; (b) help
develop and implement restructuring plans foz viable
enterprises; (c) assist in the liquidation of nonviable
enterprises and in the design and implementation of the
Government's privatization strategy; and (d) strengthen the
Finance Ministry which is responsible for overall supervision
of PE performance; and (ii) training of PE managers and MINIFIN
staff.
Benefits:         The project will assist Rwanda to achieve a more streamlined,
efficient and business-oriented PE sector with a reduced
financial and administrative burden on the Government. Another
benefit of the project would be derived from the restructuring
of the sector. The closure of uneconomic enterprises would
reduce resource waste, while the sale of viable ones to the
private sector and the rehabilitation of those remaining under
Government control are designed to maximize the economic
benefits of those enterprises.
Risks:            Care has been taken in the project design so that it can
improve the economic and financial performance of selected
public enterprises even with some additional postponement of
structural adjustment.   But if the necessary macroeconomic
reforms are postponed indefinitely, there is a risk that many
of the project's expected benefits will not fully materialize.
The policy dialogue is, however, continuing and it is expected
that the Government will take the necessary measures if the
economic situation deteriorates further.



- ii 0
At the program level, as the operation involves broad-ranging
and complex reforms both at the sector and enterprise levels,
there is a risk that vested interests within Government and
the affected enterprises will resist reform measures as these
may imply increasing autonomy and replacing some existing PE
managers.    This  risk  is mitigated  by  the  Government's
commitment to carry out the necessary reforms. A second risk
relates to the privatization program which, if not implemented
properly with clear and transparent criteria, could result in
creating a rent situation for some private investors. Finally,
there is the risk that project implementation may be slowed
down by the capacity of the Government administration to carry
out the policy reform package and to monitor the execution of
enterprise  restructuring programs.    These  two  r5sks  are
addressed through the establishment of a new Directorate of
Public Enterprises in the Ministry of Finance which will be
in charge of implementing the reforms and providing technical
assistance  and  consulting  services   to  help  Rwandese
institutions carry out the tasks envisaged under the project.
FtoJoct Costt and Flnancinq Plan
(UJ8 tJioutand equl vs tnt)
Locol   Foreign      Total     X
Project Costs
Long-Ter Consultants                            700     1,280        2,060     41
Equipment                                                 90           90       2
Operating Cost                                  800       240          S40     11
Short-Term Consulting Servics                   265       780          985     20
Tr.ining                                        185       90           275      6
Refinancing of Project Preperatton Advance       60       440          500     10
Contingencies                                   170       820          490     10
Total                                  1 700     S 170        4,980    100
)                                     (88)      (84)        (100)    (-)
F;nanc'ns
* opo- d IDA Credit                                                  4,440     90
Government                                                             490     10
Total l7W                                                                   !w
Estimated Disbure.ments:
(USI Thousand)                            1991    1992    1998    1994    1995
Annual                                     1,070   1,230   1,075      980      8S
Cumulative                                 t,070   2,800   8,875    4,856   4,440



RWANDESE REPUBLIC
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
I. THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. The Macroeconomic SettinB
1.01.       Rwanda is a small land-locked country with a fairly homogeneous
population of slightly over six million and a GNP per capita of about US$280 in
1988. The population, overwhelmingly rural (90 percent), is in,.reasing at a rate
of 3.7 percent per annum and derives its livelihood mainly from subsistence
agriculture and coffee cultivation.
1.02.       Despite the predominantly rural nature of its economy (In 1989, 39
percent of GDP and 90 percent of foreign exchange earnings, mainly from coffee
and tea), Rwanda has a relatively active modern sector.  Services (excluding
public administration) have grown rapidly over the last six or seven years and
in 1989 accounted for 27 percent of GDP.  Ir.dustry has also emerged as an
important sector, contributing about 18 percent to GDP and employing over 40,000
people. The sector is geared toward meeting the domestic demand for basic goods,
with over half of its production consisting of food and beverages. Manufacturing
exports  are negligible.   Another major sector of the economy is public
administration, which accounts for 9 percent of GDP and employs 22 percent of
the total salaried labor force.   Construction and public works make up the
remaining 7 percent of GDP.
1.03.       Throughout the 1970s, Rwanda achieved considerable economic progress,
as evidenced by a high rate of GDP growth of approximately 6 percent per annum,
single digit inflation, high levels of foreign exchange reserves, balanced
budgets, equitable income distribution, and improvements in nutrition standards.
This performance, superior to that of many other developing countries. was to
a large extent attritutable to prudent economic management which kept the
internal and external sectors of the economy in balance.
1.04.       The economy became more volatile in the 1980s.  Real GDP fluctuated
widely during 1981-87 as a result of erratic weather conditions, with yeirs
of high growth (6 percent in 1983 and over 4 percent in 1985-86) followed by
near stagnation in 1987, and accelerated declines in 1988 (-3.1 percent) and in
1989 (estimated -6.3 percent). Overall. GDP growth over the last seven years
has fallen behind population growth, resulting in a deterioration of the average
living standard of the population. Prospects are bleak for the immediate future;
a large budgetary deficit and continued pressures on the balance of payments are
anticipated.
1.05.       The economic downturn and the emerging financial problems show the
continued vulnerability of the Rwandese economy to developments in the world
coffee market. The liquidation of Rwanda's large mining company (Socidt6 Miniere
du Rwanda, SOMIRWA), in the mid 1980s, increased the economy's dependence on
coffee to generate foreign exchange. Rwanda's economic problems also have been
exacerbated by policies followed by the Government over the past few years. The
Rwandese authorities did not perceive the coffee boom of the late 1970s as a
temporary phenomenon and embarked on a large public expenditure program, failing
to adjust it when coffee prices reverted to a more normal level in the 1o808.



- 2 -
As a result, large budgetary deficits developed and had to be financed by
increased borrowing, particularly from domestic sources. Between 1981 and 1987,
public domestic debt quadrupled, reaching RwP 21.1 billion (US$270 million) or
13 percent of GDP at end-1987. At the same time, the balance of payments came
under pressure as terms of trade deteriorated and the exchange rate became
overvalued. From 1986 to 1988 Rwanda had to draw down about RwF 4 billion (US$52
million) of foreign exchange reserves to finance the external deficit. Rwanda's
external position is expected to further deteriorate in the near future, given
depressed coffee market prices and low production levels.
1.06.       As in the early 19809, the Government's response to the situation
has been to introduce restrictions in its exchange and trade system, VAiich was
one of the most liberal in the region.  This move towards controls has been
reinforced by demands for higher protection from local producers unable to
compete with cheap imports resulting from the overvaluation of the exchange rate.
According to the IMF, between end-1980 and end-1985, the trade-weighted effective
exchange rate of the Rwanda Franc appreciated oy 80 percent in nominal terms and
by 46 percent in real terms, as the rate of inflation in Rwanda was lower than
that of its trading partners. Although it has declined since, the effective rate
in mid-1988 still indicated an appreciation in real terms of about 30 percent
compared with the end-1980 level.
IDA-Government Policy Dialogue
1.07.       Given the deterioration of Rwanda's economic situation, the Bank's
dialogue with the Government over the last three years has focused on the need
to restore the competitiveness of the economy through the implementation of a
comprehensive reform program addressing the major structural problems, including
exchange rate overvaluation, trade distortions and public sector inefficiencies.
While there is a general consensus in Rwanda that the public enterprise (PE)
sector is inefficient and should be restructured, the Government is still
studying other broad macroeconomic reforms.
1.08.       In June 1988, the Government officlally requested Bank assistance
to formulate a program to reform its public enterprise sector but stressed that
it needed more time to seek internal consensus on macroeconomic adjustment.
Recognizing the need to move forward, the Bank agreed to help the Government in
its public enterprise reform efforts, while continuing the dialogue on
macroeconomic policies. IDA financed technical assistance to assist Rwandese
working groups to analyze the impact of the country' s legal and institutional
framework and macroeconomic policies on public enterprise performance as well
as to conduct enterprise-specific diagnostic studies. The Government's Policy
Statement on Public Enterprise Reform includes recommendations made by the
working group on legal and institutional issues and rAlects the results of
discussions with IDA staff. The Policy Statement on Public Enterprise Reform
signed by the Minister of Finance was presented at negotiations (Annex IV). The
proposed project is an outgrowth of this process and has been designed to assist
the implementation of policy reforms. It may be regarded as an iu.portant step
towards a more comprehensive adjustment process. However, until distortions in
the economic environment are addressed the project will only focus on
restructuring service enterprises and those producing tradables whose economic



- 3 -
viability has been demonstrated and which are financially viable under the
present exchange rate regime.
B.    Sector Overview
Historical Perspective
1.09.       Rwanda's public enterprise sector (para. 1.22 for definition)  is
relatively large, young, and still growing with most of its 62 parastatals
created after 1975.  Revenues generated 1by the coffee boom of the late 1970s
allowed the Government to play a major role in the ownership of key enterprises.
Its choice of investments was governed by pragmatic considerations: (i) the
perceived obligation of Government participation in enterprises of strategic
interest (coffee, tea, petroleum,) or natural monopoly (electricity), (ii) the
need to stimulate the national economy through projects that could not attract
Rwanda's nascent private investors (pyrethrum extract, banana wine production),
and (iii) the desire to provide administrative services more efficiently through
decentralized entities (tasearch institutes, universities) rather than government
departments.
1.10.       The donor commtunity also has been responsible for the growth of the
public enterprise sector. As projects mature, the Government is automatically
assuming the donors' management and financial responsibilities. According to
Rwanda's 1988 development budget, the Government was supporting 99 projects;
about 15 of these are expected to be reclassified as public enterprises or be
sold to the private sector during the next two years. Other projects will be
reclassified soon thereafter.
1.11.       Of Rwanda's 62 public enterprises, 32 are wholly-owned by the
Government, 12 are mixed companies (societe d'6conomie mixte) with at least SO
percent Government and/or public enterprise ownership, and 18 have a majority
private ownership (Annex I).  The 32 wholly Government-owned enterprises can be
further subdivided into five entities of an administrative nature, 16 public
enterprises of a commercial or industrial nature, five regies of which four also
manage an industrial/commercial activity and six completed projects which are
about to be reclassified as some form of public enterprise.
Importance of t-he Public Enterprise Sector to the Economy
1.12.       Public and mixed enterprises account for about 10 percent of Rwanda's
GDP. If all mixed enterprises are excluded, then the share drops to only 2-3
percent of GDP. In 1987, the value added of the 17 largest public enterprises
was about RwF 2.9 billion (about US$40 million). However, subsidies and other
transfers from the Government are equivalent to almost 45 percent of this value
added. Four enterprises alone constituted almost 90 percent of the total value
added of this group.
1.13.       Despite their low share of GDP, certain public enterprises play a
key role in the economy. Coffee, tea and pyrethrum promotion and sales, all
managed by public enterprises, account for about 85 percent of Rwanda's total
exports.   Consumption taxes on beer and soft drinks produced by a mixed
enterprise furnish about 15 percent of the Government's budgetary revenues.



- 4 -
Thus, a few public enterprises are an importanE source of foreign exchange and
government revenues. In addition, public enterprises are estimated to employ
about 15,000 people. This represents about nine percent of employment in the
formal sector (159,000) and over one-quarter of total employees in the public
sector (56,000).
1.14.       Government investment in mixed enterprises shows that thic sector
has absorbed a sizeable amount of public resources during the past decade. To
date, the Government has invested about RwF 4.1 billion (about US$56 million)
in nominal terms in joint ventures with the private sector. Foreign investors
have provided a little less than the Government, RwF 3.9 billion (US$53 million),
while Rwandese investors have contributed only RwE 1 billion (US$13.5 million).
1.15.       Foreign loans to public enterprises constitute one-third of Rwanda's
external debt. The Government has contracted an external debt of almost RwF 16
billion (US$213 million) on behalf of six public enterprises.  Unless these
enterprises' financial performarnce improves dramatically, during 1988-95 the
Government will be required to make about RwF 5.7 billion in principal and
interest payments on this debt.
1.16.       Unlike many developing countries, public enterprises are not directly
crowding out the private sector's access to domestic bank resources. Credit from
the Central Bank (Banque Nationale du Rwanda, BNR) to PEs is negligible (RwF 1.7
million); outstanding loans to PEs (excluding mixed enterprises) from commercial
banks more than doubled from RwF 400 to 852 million between 1982 and 1983 but
remained fairly stable at this level until the present.   In March 1987,
outstanding loans fr,'m commercial banks to PEs amounted to only RwF 748 million
(about US$10 million) while loans to the private sector totalled RwF 12 billion
(about US$162 million).    The amount of outstanding loans  from Rwanda's
development bank (Banque Rwandaise du Developpement, BRD) and the mortgage bank,
Caisse HypothAcaire du Rwanda, to PEs declined from RwF 214 million in 1982 to
107 million in 1987, while their loans to the private sector increased from RwF
1,442 to 2,847 million during the same time period.   All loans to public
enterprises have been guaranteed by the Government.
1.17.       The public enterprise sector has been a large burden on public
finances. Many of Rwanda's public enterprises would have ceased operations if
it were not for Government subsidies. During 1983-87 net Government transfers
to 17 industrial and commercial public enterprises (in the form of equipment and
operating subsidies, non-reimbursed advances and repayment of debts on behalf
of PEs) totalled about RwF 7.6 billion (about US$82 million) (Annex I).
Government subsidies to PEs were RwF 8.1 billion, while the flow from these
public enterprises to the Government (mainly taxes and dividends) was only RwF
508 million. This represents a sizeable amount -- six percent -- of government
revenues during those years. The total net transfers from the Government to
these 17 public enterprises, two mixed companies and the administrative bodies



- 5 -
represented about 10 percent of Government revenues in 1987. 1/ Since all public
enterprises except mixed enterprises are exempt from paying income taxes, this
also represents an important source of foregone income to the Government.
Financial Performance
1.18.       The performance of public enterprises with majority government
ownership has been disappointing. Aggregated losses of 18 wholly Government-
owned public enterprises of a commercial/industrial nature were RwF 850 million
in 1987 (about US$11.3 million), excluding the RwF 3 billion in losses suffered
by the Stabilization Fund for coffee 21 (Annex I). Accumulated losses for these
enterprises during 1983-87 amount to RwF 2.7 billion (about US$29 million).
Heaviest losses during this period were incurred by hotels owned by Office
Rwandais du Tourisme et des Parcs Nationaux (ORTPN), the pyrethrum processing
plant (Office du Pyr&thre du Rwanda - OPYRWA); the agricultural marketing company
(Office de la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du Mutara - OVAPAM); the tea
processing and marketing company (Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda-
The - OCIR-The); and by the airport. This pattern of losses has caused many of
Rwanda's public enterprises to be severely undercapitalized.  The Office des
Cultures Industrielles-Cafe (OCIR-Cafe), with a negative net woith of RwF 1.3
billion is technically bankrupt, while OPYRWA and the Office National des
Transports en Commun (ONATRACOM), the domestic bus company, have an extremely
weak capital base. The only public enterprise that generated income during this
period was the government pension fund, Caisse Sociale du Rwanda (CSR) (RwF 2.1
billion from 1983-73).   However, even this social security fund has high
operating costs and a relatively low return on investment. Since this agency
has not performed any actuarial forecasts, it is impossible to determine its true
financial performance.
1.19.       Despite receiving subsidies each year, the four public entities of
an administrative nature for which data are available also had significant
losses: RwF 260 million (about US$3 million) in 1987 and, on a cumulative basis,
RwE 714 million from 1985-87 (about US$8 million). The financial performance
of mixed companies, while better than that of wholly Government-owned
enterprises, has also been disappointing. The consolidated profits of 17 mixed
companies for which the Ministry of Finance has statistics was only RwF 124
million in 1987 (about US$1.7 million). Among enterprises that were majority-
owned by the Government, only Rwanda Export (RWANDEX), the coffee processing and
export company, and the gasoline distribution company, Societ4 Rwandaise du
1/ The Govenmment has also assumed the debt obligations of Rwakina and Air
Rwanda, two mixed companies, which amount to a net transfer of RwF 71
million. The net transfers to the five administrative bodies was
Rwf 3.8 bMllion during 1983-87, or about RwF 770 per year (about US$8
million).
2/ It should be noted that Electrogaz showed a profit of Rwf 71 million in
1987 only because it received a RwF 359 million payment from the
Government on a debt owed by SOMIRWA against which it had constituted
provisions earlier. Without this extraordinary income, it would have
had a RwF 200 million loss.



- 6 -
P4trole (PETRORWANDA) were profitable in both 1986 and 1987.   In general,
dividends remitted by mixed companies to the Government have been very
disappointing.   The Government received only RwF 142 million during 1983-87
(US$1.5 million). Return on the Government's investment of around RwF 4 billion,
thus, has been negligible.
1.20.       Even with these losses, the wage bill of these 18 enterprises
increased steadily during the 1980s. It is clear that poor financial performance
did not cause public enterprise managers to trim their staff. Most managers lack
sufficient authority to control the number and quality of staff members and few
have an incentive to argue in favor of such cuts.
1.21.       Cross-debt tables on 17 of the largest public enterprises show that
the Government is by far the largest debtor and creditor vis-a-vis public
enterprises (Annex 1). The pension fund is the Government's largest creditor
(RwF 2.2 billion) and OCIR-The and OPYRWA are the Government's largest debtors
(RwF 1.1 billion and 516 million,  respectively).   Unlike many developing
countries, public enterprises have relatively small arrears owed to other public
enterprises and mixed enterprises and the Rwandese private sector is a net debtor
to public  enterprises.    Since the Government has assumed the  repayment
obligations of public enterprises when they are unable to meet their debt
payments, no arrears are owed to Rwanda's banks.
C.    Institutional and Legal Framework
Legal Structure
1.22.       The Government does not have a single all-encompassing definition
of what constitutes the public enterprise sector.   The term is used rather
loosely to refer to entities which have a separate administrative structure and
are wholly or partly owned by the state. Rwanda's public enterprise sector can
be divided into four categories: etablissements publics (public entities) which
are wholly government-owned agencies with a separate juridical and financial
status. These include entities that are intended to serve a social purpose, such
as research institutes, as well as in-ustrial and commercial enterprises; regies
which are public entities that lack an autonomous legal status but do have
financial and technical autonomy; mixed companies (societes d'economie mixte)
which are joint ventures between the Government and private domestic or
international investors that are subject to the commercial and labor lawLs that
govern the private sector; and completed prujects which lack any legal status
but have a separate administration and are about to be transformed into one of
the above categories.
Government Oversight
1.23.       Public enterprises (except mixed companies with minority government
ownership) are subject to extensive control by the Government. The President
plays a predominant role in determining the supervisory staff and management of
the fully government-owned enterprise. According to law, he appoints the entire
board of directors, the general manager, the top technical staff and the
Government Commissioner of all etablissements publics and regies.   All are
government civil servants. The President may take decisions in place of the



board of directors if this body has failed to take action on an important issue.
Private shareholders of majority Government-owned mixed enterprises are
represented on the board and may choose a few of the enterprise's staff, but most
of the board members, the general manager and top staff are suggested by the
Minister of Finance and confirmed by the Cabinet.   Hixed enterprises with
minority Government ownership include Presidential appointees on their boards
of directors, but the controlling owners choose the Chairman of the board, the
general manager and most of the technical staff.
1.24.       Public enterprises are supervised by technical and financial tutelle
ministries.   The technical tutelle, which is th. ministry in charge of the
enterprise's sector of activities, has the power of prior authorization,
approval, cancellation and substitution of key decisions taken by the public
enterprise's management. This extends to investment programs, budgets, loans,
financial accounts, price-setting procurement decisions, contracting, internal
regulations, personnel decisions and resolutions of the board of directors. The
technical tutelle usually plays a limited role in the operations of mixed
enterprises with minority government ownership. The Ministry of Finance, the
financial tutelle, must approve the enterprise's budget, any budget overruns,
all loan obligations, contract obligations over a certain amount and any other
extraordinary financial transactions.  The financial tutelle' s control on mixed
enterprises with minority Government participation is usually limited to
decisions involving government guarantees.
1.25.       Although the technical tutelle ministries are supposed to monitor
the performance of the public enterprises within their portfolio, they lack
adequate support to perform these responsibilities. Two divisions within the
Ministry of Finance are supposed to monitor the Government's public enterprises,
but, in practice, they have insufficient staff and resources to perform this
function. In practice, the tutelle agents rarely play an efficient supervisory
role. As shown by the poor financial and administrative performance of most
public enterprises, they do not provide the kind of support needed to the
enterprise's board of directors and its managing director. The State Controllers
are government officials who, often due to lack of time, are not performing their
function properly.
Administration and Management
1.26.       According to the General Public Entity Law of 1975 and other
legislation, the board of directors of 100 percent Government-owned public
enterprises has significant responsibilities. In practice, the boards of most
etablissements publics do not function well. Although the board is supposed to
meet each quarter, meetings are not regularly scheduled and often the proceeding
lacks legal authority because a quorum is not achieved. Since all board members
are civil servants that often have insufficient business experience and technical
familiarity with the enterprise's production process, this entity's usefulness
is extremely limited. Board membere that work in the tutelle ministries may
often defend their ministries' interests rather than those of the enterprise.
1.27.       Some  managers  of wholly  or majority  Government-owned  public
enterprises are regarded to have poor managerial and business skills. Their
longevity on the job and salary increases are not necessarily tied to their



enterprise's performance.  Since, according to law,  they do not recruit the
management team and cannot fire these staff members, they lack a necessary
managerial function. Their main power consists in choosing the enterprise's
support staff.
1.28.       Many mixed companies with majority Government ownership exhibit the
same deficiencies.  Some majority Government-owned institutions, however, are
an exception to this administrative set-up. The foreign owners of the Banque
de Kigali (50 percent Government ownership), for example, appoint its general
manager. Government interference in the management of this bank is relatively
low.
Labor Law
1.29.       Employees of etablissements publics are subject to the Presidential
Decree of December 1976 which is modeled after the civil service law. Employees
are divided into civil servants (sous-statut) and contractors (sous-contrat) 3/.
While civil servants are rarely fired but rather transferred to another post when
problems occur, contractors have little job security.  Unless their contract
specifies otherwise, they receive a minimum of 15 days nctice. Thu3, public
enterprise managers can and do fire those under contract without paying any
significant indemnities.
1.30.       Employees are divided into six categories, each of which is further
subdivided into levels. The Government sets a minimum wage for each sublevel,
making distinctions for different economic subsectors. It also specifies the
qualificLtions needed for each job category.   This rather inflexible system
responds poorly to the recruitment needs of many public enterprises. Higher-
level staff are chosen on the basis of academic qualifications rather than
business experience. Although all higher-level staff members are supposed to
pass an exam before they are hired, in practice this rule is not followed.
1.31.       In general, wage levels within public enterprises have not kept up
with those in the private sector. This makes it difficult for public enterprises
to retain qualified staff. Since mixed companies are subject to the same labor
code as that which perteins to private enterprises, they have much greater
flexibility in the hiring and firing of staff and determining salaries and wages.
D. Government's Prior Attempts at PR Reform
1.32.       Dissatisfied with the performance of the PE sector and faced with
a more difficult budgetary situation, in 1985 the Government initiated a number
of actions to contain PE losses and to address sh.e problems of the sector. The
Programme de Relance recommended: (i) defining the respective powers of the
tutelle ministry and the enterprise's board of directors more clearly with a view
to giving the latter greater autonomy; (ii) setting annual management objectives
for each enterprise; (iii) instituting a reward system linked to performance;
3/ In 1986, according to the Ministry of Public Administration, about 70
percent of the 8,013 staff employed by administrative agencies were on
contract (sous contrat).



- 9 -
and (iv) giving financial objectives priority over social or political ones.
While relatively little progress has been made so far, the Government now appears
ready to act on these suggestions.
1.33.       The Government obtained assistance from the European Economic
Community (EEC) to create the Centrale Comptable et Organisation (CCO) within
the Presidency to improve the financial accounting systems of selected public
enterprises, provide ad hoc technical assistance and conduct external audits.
Until recently the financial performance of most public enterprises could not
be analyzed accurately since PEs lacked reliable financial statements. The CCO
has concentrated its efforts on six public enterprises but monitors the
performance of 16 public enterprises. However, the CCO has no legal status and
its role after the termination of EEC funding in 1990 is uncertain. In addition,
the scope of its activities is limited to enterprise-specific accounting and
financial management issues. It lacks the mandate and resources to pursue a more
comprehensive approach to sector reform and does not intervene in the activities
of the regies, mixed companies or projects.
1.34.       The Government has also received assistance from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) to suggest administrative reforms within the central
government. This five year project (1988-93) is supposed to examine personnel
issues within etablissements publics.
1.35.       Finally,  technical  ministries  launched,  often  at  their  own
initiative, attempts to rescue enterprises under their tutelage. These include
technical assistance to Projet Pouzzolane, Chaux et Tourbe, and actions have been
taken to improve the management and financial performance of OPYRWA.   A
restructuring plan has been proposed to improve its internal audit, plantation
services and the quality of pyrethrum extract. New input supply and marketing
arrangements are also being investigated as well as the possibility of selling
the enterprise.
1.36.       Privatization of public enterprises has been on the Government's
agenda for some time. In mid-1988, the President announced in a public speech
the first phase of a broader privatization progrPm: ORTPN hotels and the
Imprimerie Nationale du Rwanda (INR), a government printing company (which are
etablissements publics of a commercial nature) would be sold, as well as the
Government's shares in some mixed enterprises, including the Societe Nationale
des Tubes (SONATUBES) (PVC tubes; 23 percent government), the Societe des
Transports Internationaux du Rwanda (STIR) (road transport; 85 percent
government) and the Societe Rwandaise des Textiles (RWANTEXCO) (textiles; 49
percent  government).    The Ministry  of  Finance was  entrusted with  the
responsibility to implement these decisions, which were confirmed in subsequent
speeches of the President and communiques of the party's central committee. The
Government has initiated financial and management audits of INR, SONATUBES, STIR
and RWANTEXCO to determine their value.  Moreover, in 1938, two government
projects involved in commercial or industrial activities were converted into
mixed companies with private partners, namely the Boucherie Charcuterie du Rwanda
(BCR) butchery and the Societe Rwandaise des Allumettes (SORWAL) match factory.
1.37.       Despite these efforts, the situation of the PE sector continued
to deteriorate and prompted the Government to reexamine its case-by-case strategy



- 10 -
and focus on issues of coordination, reform of the legal and institutional
framelwork and its own role in the sector. As part of the Government-IDA dialogue
on PE reform, in mid-1988, the Government established three working groups to
ti) examine the impact of macroeconomic policies on the performance of public
enterprises, (ii) propose improvements in the legal and institutional framework
governing PEs and (iii) conduct diagnostic studies on selected PEs which suggest
potential rehabilitation or privatization plans. The three groups were assisted
by a team of international consultants financed under the IDA TA project to the
Finance Ministry (Cr. 1565-RW).  Their work is the basis for the preparation of
a comprehensive PE reform strategy to be supported under the proposed program.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Background
2.01.       The formation of the three Rwandese working groups represented an
important step in the Government's process of examining the effect of Rwanda's
macroeconomic policies and its legal and institutional framework upon the
financial and economic performance of the public enterprise sector. The Rwandese
working groups' reports indicate that the disappointing financial performance
of public enterprises stems from: (i) the lack of clear Government-set objectives
and targets against which enterprises are evaluated; (ii) an incoherent,
inconsistent and often counterproductive legal framework which fosters neither
managerial autonomy nor accountability; (iii) managers that usually lack business
background and expertise in the enterprise's product line; (iv) labor laws and
practices which do not adequately reward or punish employees on the basis of
their performance; (v) inadequate financial accounting systems and controls; and,
(vi) poor economic and financial analysis of the project at the design stage.
This has contributed to the establishment of enterprises which are inappropriate
due to scale, technical complexity, domestic resource costs and other factors.
During negotiations, the Rwandese delegation submitted the minutes of a
Ministerial meeting which indicated general agreement with the recommendations
made by the working groups.
2.02.       The above analysis has led Rwandese policymakers to conclude that
a more comprehensive PE reform program is needed to address the policy issues
affecting PEs as well as questions of economic viability which are presently left
aside in favor of financial issues. It is now recognized that productive PEs
should be given the necessary incentives to operate as private enterprises, even
though their performance is monitored and supervised by the Government. This
means that, while having a greater role in running the enterprise, PE managers
would have a greater degree of accountability if their performance is
unsatisfactory. The changes in the operational environment will require a clear
delineation of the respective powers of the tutelle ministry, the board of
directors and the PE management, more flexible labor regulations and better
financial incentives for PE management. This new approach and the accompanying
PE reform strategy emerging from this analysis was initially formulated in the
reports of the working groups and has been reflected in the Policy Statement on
Public Enterprise Reform prepared by the Government in the context of this
proposed project. The Government's Policy Statement on Public Enterprise Reform
was supplemented with an implementation schedule of major reform actions (see



- 11 -
Annex  V  for  schedule  of  key  actions).    Ministry  of  Finance  and  IDA
representatives will review and modify, if necessary and by mutual accord, this
schedule every six months.   Non-compliance with key actions of the public
enterprise reform program would constitute a specific event of suspension in the
Development Credit Agreement.
B. Objectives
2.03.       The major objective of the proposed project is to assist the
Government to improve its technical and administrative capacity to implement its
reform program described in its Policy Statement on Public Enterprise Reform.
This program aims to ti) reduce the burden that public enterprises have placed
on the Government budget and administrative capacity and (ii) to develop a
streamlined and efficient PE sector that will contribute to the growth of
Rwanda's economy. Specifically, the project aims at helping the Government to:
a.    redefine the role of the Government in the PE sector and
formulate principles for future interventions in new
enterprises;
b.    improve the institutional and legal framework for public
enterprises with a view to (i) increasing the autonomy and
accountability of PEs; (ii) better defining the role and
responsibilities of the different bodies involved in PE
decision-making (technical tutelle ministries, Ministry of
Finance, Ministry at the Presidency, PEs' Boards of Directors
and PEs' management); and (iii) ensuring a better supervision
of PEs by the Government;
c.    increase  the  efficiency  of  the  sector  through  (i)
rehabilitation of public enterprises that could be made
economically viable; (ii) divestiture of those which can be
privatized; and (iii) liqu.adation of nonviable ones;
d.    develop national capacity to design, implement and monitor PE
reforms.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.04.       Improvements in the efficiency of resource use by the PE sector is
a key element for financial equilibrium and growth in Rwanda. The proposed
operation is an integral part of Government's approach of addressing sectoral
adjustment issues, while seeking to reach consensus on structural macroeconomic
adjustment. IDA support has already played an important role in this process
during the project preparation stage by financing consultants attached to the
working groups, reviewing and commenting on drafts of the working groups' reports
and the dialogue leading to the preparation of the Policy Statement on Public
Enterprise Reform. The proposed project will finance additional consultants and
provide a mechanism for continued dialogue between the Government and IDA on
these  issues.    By  adopting  a  comprehensive  approach  to  improving  the
institutional and legal framework affecting all public enterprises, this project
will strengthen measures being taken by other IDA projects to improve the
operations of key public enterprises.   For example, while this project will



- 12 -
address Electrogaz' legal and institutional problems, a separate future energy
project will deal with improving its operational efficiency. Similarly, this
project will improve the institutional environment for the Imprimerie Scolaire
by assisting its transformation from a regie into an etablissement public while
the Education III project is funding long-term technical assistance and supplies.
Other complementary projects are the forthcoming Transport Sector Project which
requires the signature of a performance contract with ONATRACOM as part of the
project's action plan and the Telecommunications Project which aims to improve
the operations of the Post and Telecommunications institution. Care has been
taken so that this project complements such activities and does not overlap with
them. Finally, the institutional arrangements of the proposed environmental
agency (part of the current functions of ORTPN) will be developed within the
larger framework of the Environmental Action Plan (EAP) which is currently being
prepared by the Ministry of Plan.
D. Description of the Project
(1) Reduction of the State's Role in the Productive Sectors
2.05.       The Rwandese working groups on public enterprise reform program have
recommended that six of the ten enterprises that were studied by the groups
should be privatized in full or in part, namely: ORTPN (hotels), Bureau National
d'Etudes des Projets (BUNEP) (consulting firm), Riziculture (rice production),
Forge Gouvernementale (blacksmith), OVAPAM (agricultural marketing) and
Papeteries du Rwanda (ceiling tiles and paper products). In addition to the
enterprises already mentioned, the Government has initiated talks with private
partners for the divestiture of OPYRWA (pyrethrum plant) and has opted for the
transformation of the telecommunications directorate of the Ministry of Transport
and Communications into a joint-venture company with a private telecommunications
company.
2.06.       The proposed project will strengthen the capacity of the Government
to implement the privatization program by funding technical assistance and
training. While the Ministry of Finance will take the lead role in implementing
the privatization program (para. 2.26), it will also establish ad hoc working
groups for each enterprise to be privatized. The enterprise working groups would
include staff from the Directorate in charge of public enterprise reform (para.
2.21), from the concerned enterprise and from its oversight ministry, and wotild
prepare and supervise all steps of the concerned enterprise's privatization, with
the assistance of qualified advisors.   In its schedule of key actions, the
Government has proposed that a privatization strategy will be adopted by March
1991.
2.07.       To develop and carry out this program, the Government will need the
assistance of experienced investment bankers, lawyers, economists and financial
analysts, whose services will be financed under the Project. These experts will
assist the Ministry of Finance staff and the privatization working groups to
prepare, supervise and coordinate the whole program at the technical level. They
would assist the Government to inter alia: (i) recommend priority sectors or
enterprises for privatization; (ii) adopt procedures and guidelines to be
followed by the enterprise working group; (iii) explore ways to deal with public
enterprises' debts and other claims on such enterprises prior to their
privatization; (iv) suggest ways to redeploy redundant staff; (v) study and



- 13 -
assess the various mechanisms that may be available for financing privatizations
(hire-purchase, employee and management leveraged buy-outs, bank loans with
shares as collateral); (vi) assess the applicability of various privatization
techniques in regard of Rwandese realities; (vii) develop criteria for the
selection of investors and the evaluation of competing bids; (viii) suggest
legislative or regulatory changes that might be required for the success of the
privatization program; and (ix) evaluate the need to grant tax holidays or
investment code benefits to attract investors to public enterprises.
(2) Improvement of the Legal and Institutional Framework
2.08.       The Government's reform program is based on a new clacsification of
public enterprises and increased autonomy for commercial and industrial
enterprises. A major objective of the long- and short-term technical assistance
provided by the Project is to help the Government implement changes in the legal
and institutional framework.   Specifically,  the full-time Rwandese lawyer
attached to the Ministry of Finance as well as Rwandese and expatriate short-
term legal consultants (para. 2.28) will help the Government to revise its public
enterprise law and accompanying statutes and adapt company by-laws to the new
legal framework.   Training courses will be offered to public enterprises'
management and relevant ministry staff to explain these new laws and systems.
2.09.       During the early stages of project implementatior, the Government
will establish (i) the broad outline and basic principles of a new public
enterprise law and (ii) a provisional legal classification of public enterprises.
In the implementation schedule referred to in para. 2.08, the Government has
committed itself to approval of this legislation by the Council of Government
by January 1991 and to its presentation to the National Assembly in March 1991.
The principles on which the reclassification of public enterprises will be based
may be described as follows:
a.    administrative, cultural, educational or social entities will
be organized as dtablissements publics or EP;
b.    strategic  enterprises  providing  essential  industrial  or
commercial services will be organized as state corporations
(Societe Nationale or SN) and, where appropriate, as mixed
enterprises;
c.    non-strategic enterprises will be privatized (fully or partly)
if they are viable, or liquidated if they are not.
2.10.       The etablissement public category would be maintained but with some
significant changes. First, it would not apply to businesses (industrial or
cormercial entities), but only to social, cultural, educational or administrative
entities. Second, the EPs would be granted much more autonomy than at present,
thougL significantly less than will be the case for SNs. These entities would
be governed by public law, as they are now.
2.11.       The general manager would be nominated by the board of directors.
He would have the authority to hire and fire the agency's personnel, subject to
board approval in the case of senior managers.  Candidates for all of these
positions would be selected on the basis of their technical qualifications and



- 14 -
past management experience. The generai manager and board would have broader
management powers than at present. The position of Government Commissioner would
be abolished to reduce the number of bodies controlling public enterprises and
to strengthen the role of the remaining management and control bodies.  This
increased autonomy would go together with increased accountability through the
negotiations of multi-year performance contracts which commit management to
specific targets.
2.12.       SNs would be 100 percent public enterprises with the Government
either as the sole shareholder or as the majority shareholder with other public
entities as minority shareholders.   In its Policy Statement, the Government
states that SNs would be managed like private firms.  However, it is still
undecided whether these public enterprises should be governed by the same
commercial and labor codes used for private firms. During negotiations it was
agreed that SNs, in any case, would adopt key features that have been proposed
to improve their efficiency.
2.13.       The SN status would be given to existing public enterprises (sensu
lato) in the industrial or commercial sectors, which are currently clasaified
as etablissements publics or refies and are thus currently subject to public law.
The transfer of each enterprise from one of these categories to SN status will
be a time-consuming process, under which many different issues will need to be
carefully examined.   These include resolving the status of civil servants
currently employed by such enterprises and disposing of claims held against the
enterprises.
2.14.       It has been proposed that the SN's board would have the broadest
powers to manage the enterprise, and inter alia: i. nominate the general manager; ii.
approve the company's development plan and performance contract; iii. adopt the
operating and investment budgets; iv. adopt the company's organization chart and
personnel regulations; v. decide on new investments; vi. approve contracts above
a given ceiling; vii. approve the financial statements for the preceding fiscal
year; and, viii. authorize borrowings and guarantees. The SN's general manager
would have authority for the day-to-day management of the company, including the
power: ix. to hire and fire all staff; x. enter into contracts up to a given
ceiling; and, xi. represent the SN in all official transactions.
2.15.       A number of reforms would affect all categories of state-owned
enterprises -- ^tablissement publics, state corporations or mixed enterprises.
The criteria for the appointment of board members would change. In EPs and SNs,
part of the Board seats would be reserved for representatives of the private
sector; in mixed enterprises, private versus public representation on the Board
would be determined by their relative shareholdings and company by-laws.
Government representatives would be selected for their competence rather than
ex-officio. Since lack of incentives has been identified as one of the main
reasons for poor public enterprise performance in Rwanda, incentives-based
compensation would be introduced.   The Government intends to develop a new
compensation system for public enterprises whereby a portion of board member and
staff compensation would be based on productivity gains.   The project will
finance short-term consultants who are experts in compensation matters to design
these new schemes.  And, all SNs and EPs would prepare periodic development
plans, which would form the basis of a negotiated performance contract with the
Government. Development plans (or corporate plans) would set out the strategies



- 15 -
which the company intends to pursue over the short, medium and long term in terms
of diversification, investments, employment and productivity. Annual budgets and
investment programs would translate this strategy into operational expenditures.
The performance contract would include the different Government commitments which
are necessary to achieve the objectives set forth in the development plan, a.g.
borrowing authority and/or guarantee, approval of investments, price or tariff
setting and treatment of Government arrears.
2.16.       The company's management would commit itself to specific targets and
achievements within an agreed timeframe.   These would  'nclude output and
productivity targets, financial ratios and, where applicable, special programs
requested by the Government and to be financed by the national budget.
Performance contracts would be introduced over time, starting with those
enterprises (whether etablissements publics, SN or mixed enterprises) that put
the heaviest burden on C'vernment finances. Further financial support to such
enterprises would be suject to the prior negotiation and signing of a
performance contract.
(3) Enterprise Restructuring
2.17.       The Government has divided public enterprises into two groups.  The
first group of 16 enterprises, shown in Table 1, includes 12 enterprises which
constitute the heaviest drain on Government's budget and 4 public enterprises
which the Government decided to privatize in June 1988. The second group, shown
in Table 2, consists of an additional 23 enterprises.   All 16 enterprises
selected for the first round of restructuring have major management, financial
and technical problems. In 1987, the combined losses of ten of these enterprises
amounted to US$5.6 million; Electrogaz showed a profit only because it received
some extraordinary income from the Government, while Caisse Sociale is
accumulating funds for future severance payments.  In addition, net transfers
from the Government to these twelve enterprises was about US$7 million in 1987.
The selected enterprises also account for about 15 percent of the PE sector's
total value added and as much as 30-40 percent of the value added of public
enterprises when mixed enterprises  are excluded,   All  together,  the 12
enterprises employ about 2,300 permanent workers, or 15 percent of total
employment in the PE sector.
2.18.       During preparation of the proposed project, diagnostic studies were
prepared by one of the three Rwandese working groups on public enterprise reform,
to provide the basis for decision on 11 of the enterprises. A diagnostic study
of the Sucrerie, funded by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, will
provide the basis for a decision to be taken in mid-1990.   Details on the
enterprises selected for the first round of the restructuring exercise are in
Annex II.
2.19.       During appraisal, the mission agreed with the Rwandese authorities
that a second series of diagnostic studies would be undertaken on several other
public enterprises in difficulty vtth the intention of rehabilitating or
divesting them from the Government's portfolio. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the project would assist the Government to perform diagnostic studies
and detailed action plans for rehabilitation or divestiture of the 23 public
enterprises shown in Table 2. A timetable for the implementation of diagnostic
studies, action plans and the signature of performance contracts for the first



- 16 -
and second groups of public enterprises shown in Table 2 was presented by the
Government at negotiations (Annex V).
2.20.       The project will provide long- and short-term technical assistance
to ass?   the rehabilitation, privatization and liquidation of selected public
enterprises. This will include economists, financial analysts and engineers to
(i) prepare the rehabilitation plans for ORTPN and Regie des Aeroports; (ii)
assist the organization of the rice milling enterprise and blacksmith operation
into cooperatives; (iii) conduct diagnostic studies and action plans for the
second set of enterprises; and (iv) formulate longer-range development plans for
enterprises to be rehabilitated.  Legal advisors will be needed to translate
these plans into performance contracts while privatization experts could be used
to find potential investors and help the Government negotiate deals with foreign
partners. Liquidators will be required to dispose of the assets of OVAPAM and
other public enterprises that the Government decides to liquidate. Management
specialists will assist enterprises in corporate planning and organization while
accounting specialists will help public enterprises not receiving CCO assistance
to establish sound accounting systems and internal controls. The project will
fund the organization of one to two week training sessions for Board of
directors' members and PE managers in such basic areas as corporate planning and
objective setting, financial management, audit and control, management
information, personnel administration, economic analysis, accounting and
marketing.
(4) Project Implementation and Institutional Strengthening
Institutional Coordination and Implementation of the Project
2.21.       During  appraisal  the  institutional  arrangements  for  reform
implementation were discussed and agreed with the Rwandese authorities. They
are as follows:
(a)   the  decision-making  body  on  PE  reform  will  be  the
Interministerial Coordination Committee on Economic Policy
(Comit6 Interministeriel de Coordination au niveau ministeriel
en Matibre de Politique Economique). It is composed of the
Ministers  involved  in economic  policy:    Finance,  Plan,
Agriculture,  Transport,  Mines,  Industry  and  Artisanat,
Commerce, BNR and the Minister at the Presidency, and meets
regularly to review proposals of an economic policy nature
before consideration by the Cabinet;
(b)   the  technical  arm  of  the  Interministerial  Coordination
Committee is the Technical CIC on Economic Policy (Comite
Interministeriel de Coordination au niveau technique en Matibre
de Politique Economigue). This body will invite to meetings
those responsible for PE reform measures (the Directorate in
charge of PE reform in the Ministry of Finance and the CCO)
as well as representatives of the appropriate tutelle Ministry;
and,



- 17 -
TABLE  it      Characteristics of Pubilc Enterprises Selected for the First
Round of Restructurino
Enterprise   Legal Status     Activity             Major Problems             Recomendations
BUNEP        EP             Feasibility         Management/Financial    Reexamine to determine
Studles;                                   whether to privatize
Analysis
C.S.R.       EP             Social Security    Quality of portfolio.   Improve operational
Fund               Too much financing      procedures and set
and dependence on       quantitative objectives
public sector,          and monitor performance.
Inofficient.            Carry out actuarial studies
to estimate future
obligations and plan
accordingly.
Diversify invesoments.
ELECTRO-     EP             Production and    Poor management.          Classify ELECTROOAZ as
CAZ a/                     distribution of   Lack of autonomy.         Soci6t6 Nationale.
electricity,       Difficult financial     Prepare new statutes.
water and gas      situation.
Low electricity
tariffs.
Forge        Completed      Metal Work          Legal/Managament/       Sell the entity's assets to
gouverne-    Project                            Financial               the blacksmiths.
mental.                                                                 Assist blacksmiths to form
a cooperative.
Maiserie     Completed      Maize Milling      Poor management.         Give management of MaYserie
de           Project                            Too much investment     1-2 years to redress
Mukarimira                                      to be profitable.       situation (without subsidy
b/                                             Poor quality of          or new Investment).
products due to         After the deadline, sell
obsolete equipment.     off equipment to private
No market for           Investors.
enterprise's
production.
ORTPN        EP             Tourism             Management.             Sell off hotels to private
(Management of    Too much Investment      investors.
NatVonal Parks     In hotels.              Constitute new EP only
and Tourist        Overly optimistic        responsible for protection
hotels)            assumptions regarding   of environment and national
growth of tourism,      parks.
OVAPAM       EP             Management of       Very limited            Liquidate OVAPAM.
Project Agro-      responsibilities        Sell the small production
Pastoral du        givon completion        activities of OVAPAM (a
Mutera;            of project.             farm and a dairy) to
Marketing of                               private investors.
agricultural
products
OVIBAR 9/    EP             Banana wine         Poor maiagement.        Give management of OVIBAR
High cost of            1-2 years to redress
products.               situation.
No market for           Eliminate subsidies.
products.               After deadline, liquidate
company.



- 18 -
TABLE 1 (cont'd)
Enterprise  Legal Status    Activity            Major Problems              Rco wendations
Pnpeteries   EP             Cardboard and     Poor anangemnt.         Stop production of
du Rwanda                   insulating        Obsolet technology       Insulating cailing panels.
cIllng panelI    In Insulating celling  Study possibility of
panel unit.             Improving productlon
High production cost   techniques.
In cardboard unit.     Sell cardboard unit.
R69gi  des   R1gie          Airport           Management.             Classify R&gle des
A6roports                   Services          Heavy debt.             Aroporte as Soci6t&
Low prof2t due to      Nationale.
high costs and high    Renegotiate tariffs charged
fee  paid to Air        to airline companies on
Rwandr and Magervn      basis of tariffs charged by
for services           other airports In region.
rendered.              Renegotiate fes paid to
Air Rwands and Magerwr on
basis of fews paid by other
airports for similar
*ervIces.
Determine mIni,um services
R69gi des A6roports should
provide.
Rizories     Completed      Rice Milling      Legal status.           Organize producers Into
Project                          Extension service and  cooperatives and transfer
agricultural           to them managemnt of the
development costs       rizeries.
should not be          Revise producer prices.
supported by           Government to support cost
rizerles.              of Initial assistonce to
Producer prices for    paddy producers as well as
ady and rice too      agricultural development
H;ghy.                 cost.
Sucrorie     R6gle          Sugar             c/ Requires trade       To be determined
Processing        protection
Imprimerie  EP              Printing                                  Privatization-mechanlsm
National.                                                             undetermined.
SONATUSES    Mixed          PVC Pipe                                  Privatize through sale of
Enterprise     production and                            all Government shares.
(21% Govt.)   trade
RWANTEXCO    Mixed          Slanket                                   Privatize through sale of
Enterprise     production.                               all Government shares.
(49X Govt.)
STIR         Mixed          International                             Priv,%tIzo through sale of
Enterprise    trucking.                                  all Government shares.
(86% Govt. +
EP).
This project will only address the institutional problem of ELECTROGAZ.  The retructuring
of ELECTROGAZ itself will be addressed under a separate Energy project.
f/     Recommendations by Appraisal mlsion which were discussed and agreed with some mmbers of
the working groups. There Is not yet a consensus betwen Rwanda and the Bank on thes  two
enterprises.
s/     The Clisse Centrals Is currently funding a diagnostic study of this enterprie's" problem.
EP = Etablissoment Public.



- 19 -
TABLE 2: Second Group of Rwand   PEs to be
Examined under tho Pro]oct
Enterprise           Legal Status               Activity                   Major Probles
AIR RWANDA          Mixed (91W Gav't           Airline                 Poor management, high
* EP owned)                                        debts, lock of marketlng
Strategy
Apicole             Project                    Honey Production        Poor management, financial
'Os-
BRD                 Mixed (56X Gov't           Development Brank       Increasing arrears,
+ EP)                                              managemnt problems
Caisse d'Epargne    EP                         Savings fank            Bankrupt !/
CaiXn.              EP                         Mortgage Dank           Low level of activity, poor
Hypoth6caire                                                           deign
Cimenterie          Project                    C eunt Production       Inappropriate technology,
high production costa
Imprimerie          R4*1-                      School Supplies         Legal Status
Scoltaire
Laiteries           Project                    Milk Prod-btion         Production at BOX of
capacity technical and
marketing problems
MAGERWA             Mixed (6X Gov't            Import/Export           Profitability linked to
- 31X Mixed)              Storage                  R6gi1 de* A&roports
tariffs, high earmarked
taxes for company
OCIR-Caf6           EP                         Coffee Marketing        High producer prices,
overvalued exchango rate,
declining quality
OCIR-Th6            EP                         Too Marketing           High operating cota  for
some unite, overvalued
exchange rate
ONATRACOM           EP                         Domestic bus company   Financial losses, low
tariffs paid by civil
servant. Inefficient use
of the f lest
OPROVIA             EP                         Marketing of            Poor managment/financial
Agricultural            lo..s, lack of clear
Product.                objectivos
OPYRWA              EP                         Pyrethrum Extract       Poor Management.
(Insecticide)           High cost of raw mterials.
Depreused export market.
Privatize (both extraction
plant and refinery, If
possiblo).
PETRORWAIJA         Mixed (72 X EP)            Petroleum               Poor management
Distribution
REDEMI              R6gte                      Mining of               Geographic dispersion,
cassiterite and         several low productivity
colombite               mines
RWAKINA             mixed                      Quinine Processlng      Closd at present;
Goverment plans revival.



- 20 -
TABLE 2 (cont'd)
Enterprise       Legal Statue          Actlvity              Major Problems
RWANDEX         Mixed (51X EP)        Cotff. Proces ng
SODEPARAL       Mlxed (80X Oov't)     Leather goods       Managoment, Input supply
production
SOMITRAP        Mixod (51X EP)        Public Works        Lack of market
Construction
SONAFRUITS      Mixed (92X Gov't      Fruit Juice         Technological and marketing
. EP)               Production          problem
SONARWA        MUxed (70X Gov't       Insurance           High los
.EP)
SOPRlRIZ        Mixed (B0X Oov't      Rice Mil;ng         Poor managament
* EP)
SORWAL          Mixed (BO Oov't)     Match production    High operating costs
TRAFIPRO        Mixed (74X Gov't)     Retail Trade        Poor managemont, high
marketing costs
p/    Project could assist in liquidation.
(c)   the preparation and supervision of PE reform programs and
proposals (enterprise restructuring, privatization, drafting of
new Loi-cadres, preparation of statutes for PEs, etc.) would be
an entity at the Directorate level within the Ministry of
Finance. This Directorate will be concerned exclusively with
public enterprise reform matters.
2.22.       The public enterprise reform process would be as follows: documents
prepared by the new Directorate of Public Enterprises (Direction des Entreprises
Publiques, DEP) would be submitted to the Technical CIC which would have three
weeks to review them before forwarding them to the Ministerial CIC for
examination. Decisions then would need to be taken by the Cabinet and/or National
Assembly, per standard operating prccedures. At negotiations, the Government
reconfirmed that it agreed with these institutional arrangements.
2.23.       The training component will be managed by the Directorate of Public
Enterprises but be subcontracted to local institutions and rely almost exclusively
on local talent. The program of seminars would be prepared each semester by DEP
staff and consultants in collaboration with tIe University of Rwanda, CCO, or
other Rwandese training institutions for submission and approval by IDA. The
University of Rwanda's Management Department already conducts short 1-2 week
training courses for government employees on accounting, stock management, working
capital management, computers and economic analysis.  In addition to Rwandese
professors, the Management Department also employs several Canadian, German,
Belgian and Cameroonian professors. It would have to adapt its program so that
it is appropriate to public enterprise staff needs. The CCO has been training
public enterprise staff in accounting methods for the past few years. However,
this organization lacks the funds needed to cover logistical expenses associated



- 21 -
with such courses.   The CCO would be eligible for such assistance under the
project.
Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance
2.24.       The Ministry of Finance was reorganized in March 1989 so that two
General Directorates currently have overlapping responsibilities for implementing
public enterprise reform measures. The Directorate of Management of Government
Holdings and Decentralized Services (Inspection de la (>stion des Participations
Publiques et des Services Decentralis6s) within the General Inspection of Finance
(IGF) General Directorate is responsible for (i) supervising the management of all
public enterprises (including r6gies and mixed enterprises); (ii) supervising the
implementation of any special public enterprise programs; (iii) designing
regulations to improve the performance of public enterprises; (iv) regulating
their external transactions; and (v) analyzing the financial reports of public
enterprises provided by the ministry-appointed controllers. Only one person in
this division has the necessary skills to supervise the proposed public enterprise
reform process.   This Directorate also has an expatriate technical advisor
financed by the IDA technical assistance project (Cr. 1565-RW) which is aimed at
strengthening the Ministry of Finance.
2.25.       The Directorate of State Investments (Placements de l'Etat) within
the Budget General Directorate is also in charge of managing the Government's
investments in public enterprises, examining requests for Government investments,
subsidies and guarantees, monitoring the performance of public enterprises and
providing advice on the creation and transformation of public enterprises into
other forms. While this Directorate is formally in charge of implementing the
Government's privatization program, it lacks staff experienced in such matters.
It has only six staff members, of which three have university degrees but little
relevant work experience.
2.26.       The new Directorate of Public Enterprises will eliminate  this
duplication in functions by combining the two Directorates so that all matters
pertaining to public enterprise reform are centralized. The establishment of a
new Directorate devoted exclusively to public enterprise issues helps to ensure
that sufficient human resources will be devoted to this time-consuming and complex
reform process and provides tangible proof that it is a high Government priority.
It will be in charge of coordinating and implementing specific project components
such ass (i) changes in the legal framework; (ii) restructurzng of selected public
enterprises; (iii) privatization, (iv) training of public enterprise and other
appropriate staff; and (v) monitoring/supervision of all public enterprises. The
establishment of a Directorate within MINIFIN in charge of public enterprise
restructuring, including the appointment of a Director and appropriate staff, is
a condition of effectiveness. In addition, at negotiations it was agreed that the
Director General of IGF will spend half of her time on public enterprise issues
and serve as the Project Directur.
2.27.       To enable the Directorate of Public Enterprises to implement the PE
reform program, it is proposed to finance under this project the recruitment of
a team of six lor.g-term consultants who will work under the authority of the
Director of DEP. The head of the consulting team would also advise the Director
General of IGF directly on PE matters. These long-term consultants would work as
a team with Rwandese civil servants recruited by the Ministry of Finance to deal



- 22 -
exclusively with public enterprise issues.   The DEP will be staffed with a
Director, two division chiefs and about six technicians. In addition to assisting
the Ministry of Finance implement the policy changes and enterprise restructuring
program outlined earlier, they will work with their Rwandese Ministry counterparts
to:
(a)   supervise the selection, recruitment and work of short-term
consultants;
(b)   manage the training component for PE, Ministry of Finance and
other appropriate Government staff under this project;
(c)   establish a management information system to enable the Ministry
of Finance to supervise public enterprises; and
(d)   administer the project's Special Account and ensure tne smooth
disbursement of funds.
2.28.       Detailed terms of reference for the six experts were agreed upon at
negotiations.   The six technical advisors will include a senior financial
analyst/economist who will be the leader of the team of consultants, a senior
engineer/financial analyst with experience in PE reform and enterprise
restructuring, a training expert with a business degree, an economist with
experience in public enterprise issues, a iawyer and an accountant to manage
project accounts.
2.29.       Agreement has been reached to appoint the expatriate advisor now
working with IGF under financing from the IDA technical assistance project to the
Ministry of Finance (Cr. 1565-RW), as the head of the technical advisors under
this project. His financing will be transferred to this project when it becomes
effective.   It is anticipated that three of the five other experts would be
Rwandese nationals as the accountant, the legal expert and the training specialist
could be recruited in Rwanda. It would, however, be more difficult to find the
two other experts in Rwanda (the senior engineer/financial analyst and the
economist) and international recruitment is expected. The prime objectives of
these consultants, whether Rwandese or foreign, will be to transfer their skills
to their Rwandese civil servant counterparts as well as to work with Ministry
staff to implement the reform program. In addition, special training would be
provided to Ministry of Finance staff involved in public enterprise reform as well
as appropriate individuals from other ministries. Courses on project economic
analysis, privatization, lessons learned from public enterprise reform efforts in
other countries, and public enterprise performance monitoring systems will also
enhance the capacity of Ministry staff in charge of supervising the implementation
of the reform program.
2.30.       Short-term technical assistance will also be funded under the project
to accomplish the tasks outlined in previous sections. A substantial portion of
this technical assistance is expected to be provided by Rwandese experts. All
financing under this component should be approved by IDA. The Project Director
will be responsible for selecting the consultants and for submitting the financing
requests to IDA along with a brief description of the task and the qualifications
of the experts.



- 23 -
TII. THE IDA CREDIT
A. Project Costs, Financing and Use of Project Funds
3.01.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at about
US$4.9 million, with a foreign exchange component of about US$3.2 million.
3.02.       An IDA Credit in an amount of US$4.4 million, covering 90 percent
of the total project cost is recommended to finance 100 percent of the foreign
exchange cost and 72 percent of the total local cost. A Government contribution
equivalent to US$0.5 million will cover the remaining local costs consisting of
local salaries, operating costs of the unit and short-term Rwandese consultants.
The proposed 90:10 cost sharing formula is consistent with IDA financing policy
in Rwanda.
3.03.       The project includes US$2 million for three expatriate and three
Rwandese expert consultants and support staff to work at the Ministry of Finance
full-time over four years (para. 2.28) and US$1.4 million for short-term technical
assistance, of which $415,000 will be provided through the PPF.  This amount will
finance about 10 person/years of Rwandese consultants and six personlyears of
foreign short-term consultants (para. 2.30). Training courses subcontracted to
local agencies for public enterprise staff are expected to cost about $185,000.
This assumes that 10 seminars would be given each year to 25 PE managers/staff at
a cost of about US $4,600 per seminar. An additional US$90,000 will be used to
train IGF and other Ministries' staff involved in public enterprise reform. About
US$140,000 is estimated to cover the cost of vehicles, office equipment and
computers ($50,000 of which is provided under the PPF), and US$575,000 is needed
for operating costs ($35,000 of which is through the PPF).
3.04.       A summary of project costs and its expected financing is given in
the table below:
TABLE 8: ProJect Coats and Financing Plan
(USn thousand equival*nt)
Local    Forelgn     Total     X
Protect Ces
Long-Term Consultants                           790     1,260        2,060     41
Equipment                                        -         90          90       2
Operating Costs                                 800       240          640     11
Short-Term Consulting Services                  266       730          985     20
Training                                        165        90          276      6
Refinancing of Project Preparation Advance       60       440          500     10
Contingencies                                   170       820          490     10
Total                                  1,76      8,170        4i,930    100
(X)                                   (86)      (64)        (100)    (-)
Fnincini
Proposed IDA Credit                                                  4,440     90
Government                                                             490     10
Total                                                             4,930    100



- 24 -
B. Project Implementation
Proiect Management
3.05.        The Ministry of Finance, through the Directorate of Public Enterprises
(para. 2.26), would be the implementitng agency for the project.
Procurement and Disbursements
Procuremnt Eleents                             Procurment Method
ICe          LC8          Other
- (USI Thoueand) --
Vehicles and OffIee Equipment                                 -             140 !/
Consultant Services and
Technical Assistance                          --                       8,926 y
Operating Cost of the Technical Unit             -            -a7
Total                                                              4440
Direct purchase
In accordance with IDA procedures.
Disbursements
Category                         Amount               Pere ntage
(USS Thousand)
Vehicles and Office
Equipment                          90              1I0  of the CIF cost of goods directly
Imported and up to 80X of the cost of
Imported goods purchaed In Rwanda.
Consultant Services and
Technical Assistance             8,510              100X (of expenditures)
Operating Costs                     840                80X (of expenditures)
Refinancing of PPF                  600                amounts due
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Thousand)                              1091     192      1903    l0       1995
Annual                                      1,070    1,230    1,075      980      eS
Cumulative                                  1,070    2,800    3,875    4,856    4,440
3.06.        Procurement for goods to be financed under the project (mainly cars,
microcomputers and other office equipment) would be on the basis of competitive
quotations from at least three different suppliers, a procedure acceptable to IDA.
Given the modest size of procurement packages, there is little scope for ICB.
Selection of technical assistants and consultants would be made in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines.



- 25 -
3.07.       The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed as followss
(i)   Equipment:   100 percent of the cif cost of goods directly
imported anl up to 80 percent of the cost of previously imported
goods purchased in Rwanda.
(ii) Technical Assistance and Consulting Services: 100 percent of
total expenditures.
(iii)  Operating costs (excluding salaries):  80 percent of total
expenditures.
3.08.       The project disbursement schedule is shown in Annex III.   It is
expected that the project would be totally disbursed in 4.5 years, with the last
disbursement completed by December 31, 1994.
Special Account
3.09.       To expedite disbursement of funds, a Special Account would be set up
in a commercial bank in the name of the Central Bank into which IDA would make an
initial deposit of US$300,000 equivalent from the proposed Credit, immediately
after Credit  effectiveness.    This amount  represents an estimated average
disbursement of funds over a four-month period. Replenishment of the Special
Account for expenditures under US$20,000 and for all operating costs would be made
on the basis of Statements of Expenditures  (SOEs).   The documentation for
withdrawals made under SOEs would be retained by the Directorate of Public
Enterprises for ten years and would be reviewed by supervision missions.
Replenishment of the Special Account for expenditures in excess of US$20,000 would
be made on the basis of fully documented applications.   Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted on a monthly basis. The
Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors and the audit
reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Auditing and Reporting
3.10.       The Directorate of Public Enterprises will have its accounts, as well
as the Special Account and SOEs (para. 3.09) audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and will furnish to IDA certified copies of its audited
accounts together with the corresponding management letter within six months of
the end of the fiscal year. The Directorate will also submit to IDA quarterly and
annual progress reports on the project and will prepare the required Project
Completion Report. IDA will evaluate: (i) divestiture experience; (ii) public
enterprise financial results; (iii) public enterprise experience with performance
contracts and (iv) the role of supervisory institutions.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01.       The project will assist Rwanda in achieving a more streamlined,
efficient and business-oriented PE sector with a reduced financial and
administrative burden on the Government. Another benefit of the project would be



- 26 -
derived form the restructuring of the sector.   The closure of uneconomic
enterprises, the sale of others to the private sector and the restructuring of
those remaining under Government control are designed to maximize the economic
benefits of those enterprises.
Risks
4.02.       Care has been taken in the project design so that it can improve the
economic and financial performance of selected public enterprises even with some
additional postponement of structural adjustment.  However, if the necessary
macroeconomic reforms are postponed indefinitely, there is a risk that many of the
project'. expected benefits will not materialize.   The policy dialogue is
continuing and it is expected that the Rwandese Government will take the necessary
measures if the economic situation deteriorates further and risks endangering the
proposed project.
4.03.       At the program level, as the operation involves broad-ranging and
complex reforms both at the sector and enterprise levels, there is a risk that
vested interests within Government and the affected enterprises will resist
measures aimed at changing the current situation as these may imply increasing PE
autonomy and replacing some existing PE managers.  This risk is mitigated by the
Government's commitment to carry out the necessary reforms. A second risk relates
to the privatization program which, if not implemented properly with clear and
transparent criteria, would only result in creating a rent situation for some
private investors. Finally, there is a risk that project implementation may be
slowed down by the capacity of the Government administration to carry out the
policy reform package and to monitor the execution of enterprise restructuring
programs. These two risks are addressed through the establishing of a Directorate
of Public Enterprises in the Ministrv of Finance which will be in charge of
implementing the reforms and the provision of technical assistance and consulting
services to help Rwandese institutions carry out the tasks envisaged under the
project.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01.        Negotiations  of  this  proiect  were  subiect  to  the  following
conditions:
(a)   communications by the Government of comments on the final report
prepared by the Rwandese working groups on PE reform (para.
2.01); and
(b)   presentation by the Government of the draft Policy Statement
on the public enterprise sector (para. 1.08).
5.02.       During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with the
Government:
(a)   revision of new public enterprise legislation in acccrdance with
the timetable specified in paragraph A of Annex V (para. 2.09);



- 27 -
(b)   formulation of a general strategy of privatization of public
enterprises, in accordance with the timetable specified in
paragraph B of Annex V (para. 2.06);
(c)   formulation of action plans for the Borrower's divestiture of
the public enterprises listed in paragraph C of Annex V, in
accordance with the timetable specified therein, including the
liquidation or privatization of enterprises (para. 2.19);
(d)   formulation of contract-plans with specific efficiency targets
for the public enterprises referred to in paragraph D of Annex
V (para. 2.19);
(e)   carrying out diagnostic  studies  to assess  the technical,
economic and financial viability of the public enterprises
listed in paragraph E of Annex V (para. 2.19);
(f)   formulation of contract-plans with specific efficiency targets
for the public enterprises referred to in paragraph F of Annex
V (para. 2.19)
(g)   formulation of strategies of privratization or liquidation for
the public enterprises referred to in paragraph G of Annex V
(para. 2.19); and
(h)   institutional arrangements for the formulation and approval of
the reform program (para. 2.22).
5.03.       Presentation of this project to the Board would be subject to the
following condition:
-     signing of the Policy Statement on the public enterprise sector
by the Finance Minister (para. 1.08);
5.04.       Effectiveness of this project would be subject to the following
conditions:
-     establishment of a Directorate within the Finance Ministry in
charge of public enterprise restructuring, including the
appointment of a Director and appropriate staff (para. 2.26).
5.05.       With the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$4.4 million equivalent to the Government of Rwanda.



- 28 -
ANSIE I
Peg. 1 of 6
RuAA PUlUC ENtERPSIS SECTOR REFORm POJECT
STATISTICAL TALES
TABLE 1: UET 01 RWANES! PE*
INAME               IACTIVITY                            CTflro    TYPEi
I                         _ /       .,~~~~~~~~~~b/ I
pIOCX COV'T-ED:  I                                                       I
I                   t~EP  I
IINRS               IftcaRsrOh Iftst;tute                  SER       EPA I
IUNR                IUni,egrity                           SEl        %PA
IONINFOR            tOff Ie otf 2torztio                  $ti       EPA
|ONAPO              IPopulation off I                     S          EPA I
IISAR               lAgrculturol Collee                   six        EPA
IOCIR-CAFE          ICo*ffo  Marketing                     AG       EPIC I
IOVAPAM             ItRegional Agricultural Project        A        EPIC I
IOMROVXA            IMaeketing of Agriculturel Product*     AG      EPIC I
ICER                ICca;e d'Epargo1 FIN                           EPIC I
I8NR                IContral Sank                         FIN       EPtC I
ICSR                IClas. Social-                        FIt       EPSC I
ICio               jlntareomurol Oev.lopet Credit         FIN       EPSC I
1MNR                IPrinting                              D        EPtC I
IOVIsAR             19mnom  Processing, Win etc..         :ND       EPC I
IOCIR-ThE          lIIe  Worketing                        I?        EPIC I
IPAPETERIE         IP&pr Products                          De       EPIc I
lOPYRWA             IPyrethrlm Processing                  D        VPic I
IELECTROGAZ         IPublic Utility                        Sm       EPIC I
IONW                IProject Analysis                     SIR       EPIC I
ONATRACOM          IPublic Transport                      SER      EPIC I
ORTPN               ITourim, Hotels and Perks              SER      EPIC I
ISUCRERtIE          ISuger                                 De          RI
IIMPRIMERIE SCOLAIREISchl Supplies                         IND         a
IuINES              Imining                               r1           RI
IMUSEE              IMl                                   SENt         R
IAEROPORTS          lAirporft                              SElt        R I
IRIZERIE            IRic Milling                            AG        PR I
APICOLE            Imeney                                  AG        PR1
ILAITERIE           IMilk and Products, Sojo etc..          AG        PR I
IMAISERIE           vaize milling                           AG        PR I
[FORCE GOM.         IMaliworI'                             11         PR
ICSIMNTEiE          ICt_t                                  r1         PR
I  Subtotal                                                  2 
*                       __   _     _   _.    _ _  _____ ___ ___ ___   *_ _.



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 1: LIST OF RWANDES PEo (cont'd)
INAME              IACTIVITY                                                _ Pr ~ ~ 4!R~ STRUCTURE  I
INAME              IACTIVM                            SECTOR                (percentage)           1
Gov't      PE   Mixed  Private I
Enterprise        I
IMIXED ENTERPRISES  I                                                                              I
ITRAFIPRO          IRetaol Cooporative                   SER      74.4 I    0.0       0.0    25.6 I
IAIR-RWANDA        IAir ine                              SER      66.2       8.6      8.0      0.1 j
ISTIR              {Internatlonal Transport              SoN      60.4       6 .8     6.7      8.2 1
ISONAFtUITS         Fruit Marketing Cooperative          SR       90.0       2.4      0.0      8.1 1
IPETRORWANDA       lRotail of Petroloum Products         SER      54.       17.4    26.1       1.7 1
I8CR               lBenque Commercia;l du Rwanda         FIN      44.5 I    0.0       6.5    50.1 1
ISOMITRAP          IPublic Works construction            SW       61.0 1    0.0       0.0    49.0 1
ISOPRORIZ          IRic Milling                          De       60.0 I    0.0       0.0    60.0 1
I8RO               lDvelopment Sank                      FIN      47.0 I    8.1    11.7    S2.4 I
ISOPROTEL          IHotel                                SER      40.0 1    0.0       0.0    60.0 I
IBOUCHERIE/CMARCUT. IButcher                             SER      88.8 t    0.0       0.0    06.7 I
IRWANTEXCO         iToxtils                              DIW      49 7       0.0      0.0    60.8 3
ISODEP|ARL         IL&atber Goods                        DI       80.0       0.0      0.0    70.0 1
BDRALIWA           1er                                  in       80.0 I    0.0       0.0    70.0 I
ISORWAL            1Matchs                               Ibe      29.6 I    0.0    45.6    24.9 1
ITABARWANDA         Tobacco                              TND      23.5       7.1    21.4    47.9 1
ISONATUBES          Poaetic Pipes                        IND      28.1       0.0      8.9    69.5 1
18K                IBanque de Kigali                     FIN      2. 1      26.9      0.0    50.0 I
ICHR               ICaisse Hypotecaire                   FTN      156       46.8    87.9       0.0 1
ISONARWA            Insurance                            SER      10.0      60.0    20.0    10.0 1
IETIRV             iCoffeo Processing                    Do        0.0 1     9.0      0.0    91.0 1
IMAGERWA           IStocks                               SER       6.a       0.0    81.3    12.6 1
IBACAR              Banque Continentale                  FIN       4.0       0.0      2.0    94.0 1
ICRUT              IHotel                                SER       2.4       0.0    88.7    63.9 1
ISOPAS             lAnimal Feed                          DID       2.2      26.4    84.9    43.1 I
IRWANDEX           ICoffo. Procesinag                    DO        0.0      61.0      0.0    49.0 I
IRTS               ITrovel Services                      SR        0.0 1    28.8    21.7    50.0 1
ISORWATHE          IT"                                   TDe       0.0      28.5    26.2    51.3 I
IAMIRWANDA         |Transport                            SER       0.0I   10.7    23.8    60.0 I
RWANDEX CHILLINGTONICoffoe Procesing                     DID      0.0 I    0.1    49.9    50.0 I
I  Subtotal                                               s 8o                                     I
I  TOTAL           I                                      62                                       I
----- ------------------- ----------
Notes:   / The sectors are as follows: AG  Agriculture;
IND a Industry; FIN a Financial; and SER =
Service.
b/ The PEs are classlfd as follows: EPA for enterprise  of an
administrative nature, EPIC for these having an Industrial or
commercial activity, R for regies and PR denotes completed projects
which will soon be recisstified.
Mixed enterprises are Indicated by their share of ownership by the
Covernment directly, public enterprise, other sixed enterprises and
private enterprise  a nd Individuals.



- 30 -
is"     1994     im  in$     011?   TOTAL 
table 2
m _ NW4 1IPWLZC  GTIIZSIS  4   7   eovIn
(bP Willie.)
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~6                    7               "ItI
!tomipowt SQMid         119U8    U"    19a6      JI9    16?   tOT  I
I Avn                     42      is        s      27       L     It?IL
I Te.ntI.e tru  Ow.   t P - 1ablI Inepm
I et a  atiuelslaw lag Ma7seo I
I (eslte Ml.ea,  6) 
I totmGvrmn
I Oivi   dsb              106       06     73      10       10     I10 I
I     iLt b4dy           291       415    HT       11       s     4416 t
A NU    4SN  1A N36                               21       210    110? IL
b:.   3t 106                      IGO     1        $6 79   2"       60 t
TTAL (A)              W051      991    1221    1831    240   61169 
ITtafentr feet. |M
t   tJ 04wee%ssa
I                                                                       Iovmi
! t**A                     12       2     11   42    291           262 
l Oivided                  31       0       0       04      41     166t
! Oth e                     4      39      31        1       4       0 
N          A
I TOTAL(b)                 47 R1            48     14      236     019i
I                                                                       Itml    tem9.1  .2  O
! (a-b)                  3039    910    1172    1190    125'   7610!
!                                                                       I
!                                                                       t
-- NT  WAThASFW           738     734    *799    74        61     3039
!  21 TOTAL TRNS63      877      S704   197    1913    2069   11449!
!                                                                       !
I                                                                       !
! REWU3                 16600   17930   211S0   2360    23130  201230 !
!                                                                       !
N*__S TR______
! GTt.  m o.                               6.63    6.13    5.41  
I                                                                       !
I UY.i   mgmg                              9.83    g.m*   6.91  
!                                                                     !fn ae n i e ae e o e



31 -
NVT PWP??AA  30S3   GP W*CIU  UIAIA   Pie
t
I~~                                                         I
|          S"J      19"       *~~~~t"  *9"       *967         MAtL 'I
Oune                   7        (0)      (13)      17)      (13)     (4)1 |
EII.er@9a            2"        14       It7 ?      21        i 71   so   I
Ce I.ITh             (207)  * 3          (43)      (0)    (416)    (437)1
Otene_              ',Is        (6)      (3)       (0)      (1?      (242)1
oeovi                   a        0                 a 22      11       49 1
IttW*                         (577) ti)    (110)    (n1)    (14)    t22)I
I1A                  (212)    (172)    (M)    (ILI)         (97      t"2)1
lo0em                t121)     (")    (X0")       t}        (174     042)1
1Ovibae               (16)     (00)    (           (71      (?24     (40)f
P      l*              (4)       a        1*       14         6        MI
1t.A.                   O        0         0     (144)      27)    (am0)1
PForg oCv              1         0        3         3        4        11 I
IvSI.I;O                0        0         0         a      (37)      (3)I
talsicul%ure                             (24)       (7)      22        (7)
i Do                   (4)        4      ('9)    (tl}       tl)       (9t} I
ice                                     (191)    (119)      (23)    (34)01
I~*-TOtAL,           (550)       6      tX(61)    (710)   (fe)  (2 016")
IC.S.1.               248       322      413       115      s0    2,140 1
I 58-TOAL SU         (M02)     390      (202)    (131)    (109)    (50)7
jgetT?n  OP An U
IAOVINISTRATM    MAIM  (VA):                                              I
(54)     (50)    (SM) I
i T3*                                             (213)    (204)    (417)l
jOhAPO                                   (20)      (10)     (11)      (41)1
l 00v                                   (105)      (30)       6      (141)
I SUtTOTA  EP (VA)    (316)    (250)    (714)1
1                                                                         1
1 mm  eIsa (MSO;
JAI  -WWDA              7      (319)      15       (43)      29      (S31)1
riAMINUMA                                            0      (12;      (12)1
IUSOAMW                                              2      (tO)      (t)I
ISOPAS                                             (t)        (3)     (12)I
I153ATW                                            (53)     (35)    (130)1
ISTYZ                                             (222)       2      (220) 1
IrTAS ^ANWA                                         a       139       237 1
1 UAFWRO                                            30      (33)        S I
Clot                                               (21)     (13)      (34)l
lowf                                                12        (9)       a I
I    _wA                                            Is       30       143 1
IPIf*IEW A                                          64       12         MI
IhUMU                                              241       O        3t  I
IlANTDUO                                             7         4       it I
ISCODANAL                                           4         5         9
ISONIrMAP                                           (4)      (11)      (16)1
ISONARWA                                                                71
ISO-TOTAL SOI           7      (319)       Is      1to       124        14 1
____ ___ ___ __S._ ...--
I TOTAL              (290)       71      (325)    (324)    (334)  (1,20G)1
ITOTAL v/out Cli   (543)    (251)    (739)    (639)    (OM)  (3,33)1
Note: The 13  rice cultivation flguro do not lfinoude  SORIZ.



- 32 -                                   age I  f 
TALS 4
AIAS OF 1.7 WAM t PIt 0     Tro rti   PA*t
te   1h0 ewE      Uk#||Ws                 Qy*t- :eg Ao gej~t    Ppet.       Total
3.                                   0t1                                                                        2 6.3  621.
s P                                  0.1                                                         8 4.b
IXOA2                o!.0                                                         91                          1112.
:  TN                2.6                                           P.4            R7.1                         541.2
1.l   tAM             0.2             1.1              4.                                         356            85.6 
II: ~  ~      ~      ~       IIDY  0X  tO 17   C                                                         MG
0.1             0.1                                                         5.3
I              ~~0.0                                                                         J
I. :I ..                                                                                            0.42 21      44 6.3 X 2
14. OS3R              0.0             3                82.2
X2.~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                         ~       ~~    ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ PS  1.2               32  30t091.2
16. Fq         l      i  3,                                                                         O4. L0.      44.4
16.s                  0.1                                           040.1                          0.0            0.0
17. Rt t           .  n.e.           R. .                             4a3.2                                       S. .
R.S.  II.*       ".G.             ~~~~11.0
'Potsl              122.0              .9              0.0         79.2          3076.6          442.0          3619.9
CRUITS GW=  To 17 PULZC em"0P3g3s
Otmer         Chn  GeV%.                     Mi1e
fti-         bt tTe             sOothe    En aervei   Gov."noa_t        pel vt             Total
1.                   0                                                             1.4 ,.1                         .59
2: r-w        ION5.           311u1.2                        M4             9              5811.1          41.4.4
3                    6.4                              18.8.      203.4-           ?j:           479.4   (1)    1344.8
*X, Oa Ct-iw                                         0.40)  0.0 0                3(3-0.          8.3
T. WROV?A            4.5             @.t                           L.2                          115.8           208.4
S3   YRIA            t               0.1 3.2                                                      25.0 2?.6
9   *Tzsi           '$-"                             $0                          14.0 sXt3                      1 o  )   .9!
10. OVAPAM            0.0              8.6              0.4         0..3                                           80.3
11.                                                                 0. VUAR11.
12. PAPRI             1.2                                           2.1             3.0            10. 9           17.2
13. R.A.R.               .                               .         1.               0.0            19.1            33.5
is'     0.0             0.0                           0:~~~~.1  8.    14:4           '4              31:2
1.fi                                                              0.9                             0.0             0.9
?ot.el              1.25.6           369.4             10.3       247.1          3179.6          1406.1          5440.0
CRUMT - ARKAIS
~~by~0.vt.  lanks      !at44?er          oenn          evt                .e
2.u CS                                 100                                         9s.)            73
2. 6uN     ~       IS0:'           321:1              1:3.                        670            514.62089  t    3, 9.0
3 CR.2                             ".T               0.0        (21.0)        2.2,0.320541
4: O'  at:8.                          0.0              0.0         0.0         (I'l40            302.5        (1,114.0)
S. OCATRCACO        (2:5)             0.4              0.0         (20              2.1           47.4            '0. 9
S.  (NARA:M0)                                       0.4        (33OJ.                          26.1           303.9
7. OPROVIA           4.                                004                        i2              31.5                7 01~
S. OPYRWA           (0.1)0 .2                          0.0                            4            7.2          (5R12.i
9. ORWN3.00.                                           0.0          0.0           63               2.5            32.3
1.0. OVAPAM                              5                          ( 4.5             :0            4.6             2.9
i.OVISAR               1            (1.1              0.0         W0A4 1.1)                       4
12. PAPRWA                      0.00.0                         1.v             g.g1           6.3           (27.1)
13. R.A.ft.             :              000.1                        13.1                           13.7             1.4
14. SUCNlRIEI1                         0.3              0.0         17.3                           40.7            37.1
II  .,,Ur,        01              00                 .          0.0             0.2.                          (1
Total               115.             380.4             1.0.3       167.9           102.7        1,054.1         1,840.2



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 19
RWVADISI REPUBLIC
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES SELECTED FOR RESTRUCTURING UNDER THE PROJECT
1.       This Annex contains brief descriptions of 16 enterprises to be
assisted by the Project.  This includes 10 public enterprises which were
analyzed by the Rwandese working group, OPYRWA, which was examined by the
Bank during preappraisal, and Electrogaz.1/ All of these enterprises, except
OPYRWA, are part of the first group of enterprises to be restructured. The
Government has decided that OPYRWA merits further in-depth analysis and,
thus, has relegated it to the second group. The Sucrerie, another member of
this first group, is being analyzed separately; results of this study will
be known in mid-1990. In addition, the project will only address Electrogaz'
institutional problems sin'e its restructuring will be addressed under a
separate Energy project. This first group also includes four other public
enterprises which the Government has decided to privatize.
2.       Without exception, the recommendations    propose    no    further
investments of equipment.  The suggested rehabilitation and restructuring
measures,   closures   and   privatizations   will   require   technical
assistance, both to the Government and to the enterprises themselves.   A
substantial training effort is also needed to upgrade skills.
A.       TWELVE PUBLIC ENTERPRISES IN THE FIRST GROUP OF ENTERPRTSES TO BE
RESTRUCTURED
1.    HAISERIE DE MUKAMIRA
3.       The corn mill in Mhukamira is the result of a cooperative effort
between the Governments of Rwanda and North Korea. The latter has supplied
all the machinery while the Rwandese Government has provided the rest of the
inputs needed. Nominal capacity of the mill is 5,000 tons of corn milled
per year, although its actual capacity depends upon the particle size of the
end product which is manufactured from the kernel's endospsrm (its starch-
containing part). The mill's operating principle is known as dry milling.
Particle size of the end product can be determined according to market
demand; potential end products include hominy, grits, pearl meal and cream
1      Further details about eleven enterprises can be found in reports
written by the Rwandese working group in charge of diagnostic
studies, assisted by the consulting firm of Maheu Noiseux.
Information on OPYRWA is summarized from a consultant's report of
March 1989 (R. Lacroix).



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 19
meal.   Depending upon the efficiency of the various  separators in the
process, the end products can be more or less free from bran and germ. Bran
is the low value outer skin of the corn kernel, used in cattle feed; germ is
its oil containing part. A perfect separation of germ from endosperm, and
vice versa. is not possible due to the mill's somewhat antiquated process of
dry  milling.    As  a  result, 1-:ewery quality  grits,  i.e. endosperm  of
relatively large particle size, essentially free from oil containing germ
material,  cannot be produced.   For  the  same  reason, germ  recovery  is
incomplete and hence, oil recovery from this type of operation is low and,
most often, economically not feasible. In the U.S. when dry milling was
still prevalent in the early twentieth century, mill fractions rich in germ
were commonly utilized in animal feed, rather than processed for oil. The
mill in Mukamira can produce endosperm of verious particle sizes, although
not free from bran and germ, as well as crude corn oil, by means of a worm
screw expeller.
4.       Total  investment  in  this  operation has  been  about  RwF 312.4
million, of which 35 percent stems from the RLrean contribution of machinery,
and 65 percent from the Rwandese Government to finance civil works (41Z) and
working capital needs (242). The RwF 76 million working capital fund was
largely lost during the first years of operation, with operating losses of
RwF 36.0  and  30.7 million  in  1987  and  1988,  respectively  (including
depreciation). Cumulative losses for 1987 and 1988, before depreciation, are
RwF 17.5 million. It is likely that the corn mill could remain in operation
fir about 8 years at this level of cash loss (about RwF 9 million per year)
until its working capital is fully consumed.   The plant's raw material
supply, 243 tons of corn in 1987 and 599 tons in 1988 was purchased from
traders.   According to plant management, the type of corn purchased is
imported from either Zaire or Uganda, the locally-produced varieties being
unsuitable for processing. Until early 1989, RwF 18/kilogram were paid at
the farm gate. Upon instructions from the municipal authorities of Mukamira
this price was reduced to RwF 15/kilogram. In late June 1989, there was an
apparent scarcity of corn with prices quoted of RwF 50-80/kilogram.  The
plant was unable to purchase raw materials and, consequently, was standing
idle.
5.       Corn  meal is not commonly purchased by the Rwandese consumer.
Corn, if consumed at all, is fully prepared within the household. Imports
of corn meal, probably by some institutional users, have been around 1,000
tons per year lately.  The only captive outlet the corn mill has for its
product is with the army and the prisons. The mill hopes to be able to sell
grits, a form of milled corn endosperm with a coarse particle size, to the
local brewery industry.  However, the contamination of the mill's grits with
particles of oil containing germ, as discussed earlier, probably obviates
this marketing opportunity.   As it is, the mill has been operating since
early 1988 at about 10 percent of its nominal throughput capacity.
6.       Small quantities of crude oil are sold at two retail outlets at the
mill and in Kigali. Contrary to corn meal, cooking oil is commonly purchased



- 35 -
ANUEX II
Page 3 of 19
by the Rwandese consumer.  About 10,000 tons of edible oil are imported
yearly, the bulk of which is Malaysian palm oil.
7.       Product pricing is apparently not related to the cost of production.
In 1987, sales revenue did not even cover the cost of the plant's
consumables, i.e. the sum of raw material costs, peat to fire the boiler
that heats the gem prior to oil extraction, power and packaging. At the
price set for bran, RwF 5/kilogram, this product, a potential ingredient of
animal feed, is not marketable. The mill has a stock of 80 tons of bran.
The company does not know its own production costs, nor has it any way to
find out with present accounting methods. The plant's operations are ad hoc,
responding to the conditions of the day, consuming its working capital in a
hand-to-mouth fashion. Fifty-three personnel are on the payroll, as well as
three Korean technicians. The contributions of the latter, either technical
or economical, are said to be nil.
8.       The working group's report offers three alternatives for the future
of the mill:
-     Improved operational efficiency, without any further
investments.    Some heroic  assumptions  underlie  the  hope  for
achieving of this alternative: doubling of sales, substantial
personnel reduction, firing of the Korean technicians and increased
managerial efficiency. If all conditions are met, cash flow could
become positive in year six. Given its working capital at the end
of 1988, losses forecast in 1989 and the cost of on-going
investments, the mill could remain in operation without subsidies.
However, even under this alternative it would be unable to cover
depreciation, even if its assets were re-evaluated.
-     Under the second hypothesis, certain modifications would be
made to the existing equipment.  Both the production of flour
and the production of oil would be technically changed in order to
increase efficiency. Grits would not be produced. A simulation of
expected operating conditions under this hypothesis shows a positive
cash flow as of the first year. The present value of a 10 year cash
flow, discounted at 12 percent, is about RwF 32 million. Assuming
that 12 percent is the opportunity cost of capital, it is concluded
that this amount, RwF 32 million would be available as the maximum
investment to effect the technical changes necessary. Furthermore,
under this hypothesis, and if the assets were re-evaluated at 50
percent of the currently assumed costs, the operation could cover
its depreciation by the eighth year of operations. The suggested
hypothesis is questionable since no estimate of the actual costs of
the technical changes deemed necessary has been made. In addition,
no evaluation of the reasonableness that the expected operations
will actually take place exists. The most questionable assumption
is that the market for flour will increase substantially.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 19
-     Under  the third hypothesis, investments   are  made in  a
completely new unit to produce grits.   Once again, this proposed
investment is based on a non-existent market. Among others, the
proposed new investment is predicated upon the construction of a new
brewery in Kigali, so as to increase the hoped-for market for grits.
9.       The werking group's basic recommendation is that further study is
needed before a definitive decision can be taken.    Short-term technical
assistance may be provided through the project to undertake these studies.
2.    OVIBAR   (Office de Valorisation Industrielle des
Bananeraies du Rwanda)
10.      OVIBAR was created in 1978 to conduct research and development work
on banana-based products. In reality, the company has become a production
enterprise whose products are a few varieties of an industrially-produced
banana wine, similar to a product that is produced traditionally in Rwanda's
rural areas.
11.      By the end of 1987, Government's total investment in OVIBAR was
RwF 285 million. In 1988, further investments of RwF 250 million had been
authorized. funded by the treasury and a loan from BRD backed by a Government
guarantee. This investment project was undertaken despite recommendations
made in a report by BUNEP (a government-owned consulting firm) in 1984. At
the time of the mission's visit to OVIBAR, the civil works related to
the new investments were in progress, while the equipment, of West German
origin, had reportedly arrived in Dar-es-Salaam. Following estimates made
in the study group's consulting report, the Government's total stake in
OVIBAR, including financing charges on the new investments, can now be
calculated to be about RwF 737 million, as follows:
-  Total investments through 1987 ........ RwF 285 million
-  New investments being implemented ..... RwF 250 million
-  Financing charges to be incurred ...... RwF 202 million
Total Investment ............ RwF 737 million
=a9--. a
12.      Total production has varied greatly from year to year,  with a low
of about 135,000 liters in 1986 and a high of about 490,000 liters in 1987.
Over  95  percent  of  this  production  is  banana  wine, the  rest  is
unfermented banana juice and some distilled, liqueur type, drink.  Compared
with the  reported nominal capacity of about 800,000  liters,  capacity
utilization of the plant has, thus, varied from 17 percent to 61 percent.
OVIBAI's total production capacity of 800,000 liters is about 0.25 percent of
the estimated total banana wine production in Rwanda.   Stocks of unsold
product are usually high, representing 14 months of production in 1985 and
15 months in 1986.  As a result, RwF 35.8 million of deteriorated stocks had
to be written-off in 1986. Further production and marketing problems are
demonstrated by a combined rejection rate of 25 percent of OVIBAR's products



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 19
from retail channels in 1988. The company has suffered operating losses each
year except 1985.   The company does not know its production costs and
does not have documented standards of quality for the products produced.
13.      Table 11-2 shows a consumption profile of alcoholic beverages in
Rwanda. It is clear that OVIBAR's production occupies a negligible part of
the market, itself dominated by homemade banana wine and sorghum beer.
OVIBAR tries to compete with the traditionally-produced banana wine in rural
areas. For reasons of quality, price and consumer preference, that appears
to  be  a  mistake.    Rather, OVIBAR's  products  cater  to  the  urban
consumer who knows the product but lacks the means to produce it at home.
As such, OVIBAR's products are in competition with beer, and not with
homemade alcoholic beverages, including homemade banana wine. However, 75
percent of the local population does not drink beer and would not
consider industrially-produced banana wine.   Thus, the feeble marketing
efforts made by OVIBAR's two salaried employees, who receive no incentives
for sales efforts, are misdirected.
TABLE II-2s RWANDA - CONSUMPTION PROFILE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Quantities
________________________        1988   consumer
price in
000' liters   breakdown          RwF/ltr.
BANANA VINE
Home made                   359,800        58Z                       50
OVIBAR                           300      <1Z               111 to 324
Total                     360,100        58X
SORGHUM BEER                  204,400        33Z
PILSEN TYPE BEER
Primus Brand (local)         55,400         9S                      115
Imported                 negligible                                131
IMPORTED LIQUORS                   300      <12
Grand Total               620,200       100o
Source: Maheu Noiseux et.al./op.cit
14.      OVIBAR  lacks  budgeted  operational plans.        Depreciation  is
meaningless, the necessity for reserves simply does not exist. Operations
use working capital to subsidize operational losses.   The fact that the
Government has subsidized this firm, both for initial investments and when
operations go bad, has removed all sense of financial responsibility from



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 19
managemnat. The working group recomnends that OVIBAR should be allowed a
trtisl period during which it can show that recent new investments will be
translated into increased profitability.   If losses continue at present
levels during the trial period, the company should be shut down. Since the
enterprise is not of a strategic nature, the working group recommends that
it should receive no further aubeAd4es. Technical assistance may be provided
through the project to assist OVIBAR with its marketing efforts.
3.    PAPETERIES DE RWANDA
15.      This paper-making plant was started by a Belgian entrepreneur prior
to independence as a facility to produce ceiling boards from locally
available papyrus reeds. The plant is located in Zaza, on the shore of a
lake with adjacent swampy areas covered with papyrus. It is about 100 km.
from Kigali, at the end of a rural, unpaved road. After being taken over by
Government in 1974, a paper products manufacturing unit was added to the
ceiling board operation. This unit essentially forms boxes from corrugated
carton. The raw material for this, craft paper, is imported.
16.      Total Government investment in this plant is RwF 130 million,
including a recent loan of RvF 40 million, intended to finance a feasibility
study about the ceiling board operation. However, this loan has been used,
instead, to purchase more used (Indian) equipment for the box manufacturing
plant. Both the box manufacturing operation and the ceiling board production
operate well below potential capacities. Protected by a 30 percent duty on
comparable imports, the box manufacturing unit consistently shows a 10 to 20
percent profit on gross sales. Its protection from imports allows it a level
of costs and inefficiency that is operationally not justified. The ceiling
board manufacture is a consistent loss-maker.
17.      Marketing efforts  appear weak  to non-existent.    For  instance,
exports of fruits and vegetables require increasing numbers of carton boxes.
Green beans alone are said to need over 150,000 cartons yearly. The local
tobacco manufacturing plant has an unfulfilled demand for boxes.   The
papeteries appears to make no efforts to capture or even to penetrate these
markets. Because of this, demand is increasingly being met by three or four
competing operations. Weak marketing efforts are the more unjustified since
the plant's box-making capacity is such that at a mere 30 percent
capacity utilization it could supply about 75 percent of the country's total
demand.
18.      The problems with the ceiling board manufacture are more complex and
are  dominated  by  production-related  matters, rather  than  marketing
deficiencies. The total Rwandese market for this product is estimated at
over 150,000 m2 yearly, of which the papeteries supplies not more than 5,000
m2. The remainder is imported. In spite of a 45 percent tariff on the
latter, the imported product is sold in Kigali at just over half the price
of the papeteries' product. The latter's variable production costs alone,
i.e. excluding labor which is considered fixed, are of the same order of
magnitude as the CIF price of the imported product, including the 45



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 19
percent import tariff.  Apart from being expensive, the _aDeteries' ceiling
boards are also considered to be of  inferior quality.
19.      The recommendations made by the working group are to halt ceiling
board manufacture and perform an in-depth feasibility study which focuses on
the technical and economic merits of the operation. If, as appears likely,
conditions of renewed profitability can be identified, this unit should
probably be converted into a cooperative and handed over to its personnel.
20.      The working group has estimated the value of the box manufacturing
operation to be about RwF 60 to 70 million, the actual value depending on
whether or not a 25 percent devaluation of the Rwandese franc is assumed.
The plant's book value is not more than about RwF 18 million. Thus, it is
concluded that privatization should be possible, ceding the plant at a price
of somewhere between RwF 18 and RwF 60 to RwF 70 million.   Financial
analysts, privatization specialists and lawyers needed to facilitate this
privatization transaction may all be provided with project financing.
4.    FORGE GOUVERNEMENTALE
21.      This government-owned, rather primitive, blacksmithing operation was
started in 1969 with Swiss assistance as a training school for rural
blacksmiths.   There is widespread demand for blacksmithing services to
repair, and sometimes to produce, agricultural implements, including spare
parts for such items as grain hammer mills. Similar to OVIBAR experience,
this school was forced into production in 1973, as a cooperative, when
Government funding for the training function was no longer forthcoming. This
sudden transformation from Government school to cooperative production entity
was undertaken without studies, organization or further investments.  The
cooperative lasted for 2 years and then went bankrupt, reportedly, due to
mismanagement. Thus, in 1976 Government took the operation back, subsidizing
all of its costs. In 1983, Government stopped subsidizing its raw materials;
as of 1988 the Forge is supposed to pay part of its personnel's salaries.
Training has become a neglected part of what is now seen as a production
enterprise. Between 1983 and 1987 only ten training openings were available.
22.      Total Government investment in the Forge, since its inception, is
unknown. Cumulative subsidies from 1983 to 1987 were RwF 26 million. During
the same period, the yearly Government allocations were somewhat higher than
the ForRe's operational deficits, leading to an increase in working capital
from 4.1 to  11.8 million.   Given  the primitive cash  accounting method
employed and the absence of a notion of profitability, management feels that
the Forge is doing rather well. The Forge's retained earnings, though, are
apparently badly invested.   An average return of only 4 percent has
contributed to estimated losses of RwF 1.3 million.
23.      Lack of a marketing strategy is evident in the Forge's production
package that includes more than one hundred different items. Over 75 percent
of total production is in articles of less than 10 units, sometimes in single
numbers. The company's total sales of almost RwF 5 million yearly are less



- 40 -
ANNEX It
Page 8 of 19
than 1 percent of the estimated total Rwandese market for the types of simple
products  manufactured  by  blacksmiths.       Ministries  and  development
projects alone comprise a market of an estimated RwF 100 million yearly. The
market is further supplied by imports and by other local production.
Thus, the size of the market is not the problem, but again, this company's
marketing efforts also are weak to non-existent. Pricing is erratic with
almost all items costing more than comparable imports. Duties on the latter
are 10 percent.   Reportedly, occasional sales are made to ministries at
inflated prices as compared with prices prevailing in the market.   This
constitutes another indirect subsidy of the Forge.
24.      The working group report recommends that the operation should be
converted into a cooperative with current staff as its owners. Indeed, the
individual nature of the operation lends itself very well to a cooperative
structure.   Fuirthermore,  some extra investments that have taken place
recently, particularly the construction of a new workshop that will be
equipped for more rational production in small series, would provide a better
basis for continued commercial operations than what has been available so
far.   Still, problems similar to those when a cooperative structure was
attempted in 1973 still prevail. So far, no study about this conversion has
taken place, and no assistance appears to have been contemplated with
organization, development of a marketing strategy or estimation of the real
value of the assets to be transferred to the cooperative. In order for a
future cooperative, based on the assets and belonging to the personnel of the
forge, to be successful, it is recommended that such broad technical
assistance should be made available during a transitory period. Technical
experts to help develop cooperatives are locally available in Rwanda and
could be financed under the project.
5.    PERIMETRES RIZICOLES
25.      Rice cultivation was started in Rwanda in 1967 with technical
assistance from Taiwan.  Presently, five different areas are in advanced
stages of production development. All of these are low lying valley areas,
part of which used to be periodically flooded wet lands, often grown with
papyrus. Because of its relatively recent introduction, rice cultivation is
still in a developmental phase, with varietal selection and extension work
important contributors to further development. Also, rice is as yet not a
widely accepted staple in the Rwandese diet. The Government continues active
support for its development, and has a production target of 16,000 tons of
white rice by 1992, or more than double current production. All rice is
produced by smallholders on small tracks of land ceded to them by Government
exclusively for rice cultivation.
26.      The five   areas   of   systematic,   relatively large   scale rice
cultivation are: Rwamagana, Bugarama, Butare, Kabuye and Mukunguli, and a
rice cultivation area within the integrated development project of Mutare.
The Bugarama and Butare areas are agricultural development projects.
They constitute production entities that depend upon the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry. The Bugarama project is financed from



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 19
the National Development budget and has Korean assistance.   The Butare
project is financed through the regular Government budget and through a loan
from the Caisse Centrale. Reportedly, plans are to convert both projects
into mixed enterprises, with pertinent statutes.   The production area of
Kabuye and Mukunguli is already organized as a mixed, Rwandese/Chinese,
enterprise, called SOPRORIZ. The rice production area within the Butare
integrated rural development project is organized as a cooperative, called
Co-DERVAM. The Rwamagana area's development was started in 1978 with
Chinese assistance. A second phase of development ended in 1987. Presently,
this area. does not have any legal status. Management may be put in the hands
of SOPRORIZ.
27.      All rice production areas are, since 1987, autonomous and assured,
theoretically, of their own management. Up to 1987. all five rice production
areas were considered projects, and hence all development-related investments
were borne either by Government or by some aid effort. Information on total
investments in these five projects since their inception, is not available
at present. Since they became autonomous in 1987, short-term debts of all
the areas have  substantially  increased.    These  short-term debts were
necessary to finance purchase and marketing of t-ie crop. Furthermore, the
change from project to an autonomous status 1'is also implied that these
projects have henceforth had to absorb what otl, rwise would be development-
related costs, i.e. costs for agricultural R&D Ld particularly for extension
and overall management. Although the latter, management-related costs can be
said to be legitimate costs of such a production entity, agricultural R&D and
extension should be borne by the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Forests, as it does for other crops.
28.      Combined yearly production of rice in Rwanda is still erratic and
currently can be estimated at about 5,000 tons per year. Up to 1985 imports
had steadily increased to a level of about 10,000 tons.   Although a
substantial part of these imports consisted of donations, well over half were
commercial imports. This changed as of 1985, as a result of a doubling of
the import tax, from 15 percent in 1983 to 30 percent in 1985. As a result,
commercial imports in 1986 and 1987 were essentially nil. For reasons that
are not clear donations ceased in 1988 and, in consequence, imports
were negligible. Total rice consumption in Rwanda has decreased from almost
12,000 tons per year to somewhat over 8,000 tons, with steadily increasing
local production but severely curtailed imports.
29.      Rice prices are fixed by Government decree at the producer's level
and at the ex-mill level. The producer price is RwF 25 per kilogram, the ex-
mill price for white milled rice is RwF 75 per kilogram. The milling margin,
double the producer price, is said to be necessary to defray the costs of
development still incurred by rice production, i.e. the earlier mentioned
agricultural R&D, extension and managerial costs.  It would appear that
Government's rigid pricing policy with respect to rice has two main
detrimental effects upon its further development.  First, the diminished
availability of rice in the local market, as a result of prohibitively high
import duties, does not allow for the further expansion of rice consumption



- 42 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 10 of 19
among the population, a necessary development that should go at least
parallel with production increases. Furthermore, the high price imposed on
the local product, masks the fact that rice production in Rwanda, under
normal conditions of production costs, would be competitive with imports.
Also, the rigidity of the nationwide fixed pricing does not allow for
differentiation between the various growing areas, between the rice mills and
even between farmers in the same areas.
30.      The introduction of rice cultivation in Rwanda appears to have been
a successful and timely Government initiative. Substantial tracts of land,
not usable for much else, have been put under agricultural production, in a
country  where  arable  land is increasingly  scarce.        Several thousand
smallholders have been settled with what increasingly appears to be a secure
cash crop. Most importantly, the Rwandese small farmer is proving that rice
cultivation can be economically competitive in Rwanda. Rice cultivation in
Rwanda has reached the point at which it should be asked to show its economic
viability within the Rwandese economy.
31.      The working group recommends that three areas that are not yet fully
autonomous should be given their independence, probably coupled with some
technical assistance to improve their structure and organization.   The
Government, through the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests should
absorb the costs of further varietal developments and other production
related research and development, as well as those of the necessary
extension. Most importantly, the working group recommends that rice prices
should be liberalized.   Efforts should continue to be made to prevent
monopolization of the rice trade by means of ownership of one or more large
rice mills. It appears advisable for Rwanda that total, or at least partial,
ownership of rice mills being established, including of the one now being
built close to Butare, be put in the hands of the producer organizations.
6.    OFFICE RWANDAIS DU TOURISME ET DES PARCS NATIONAUX (ORTPN)
32.      ORTPN, the Rwandese bureau for tourism and national parks, was
established in 1973. It reports directly to the President. The dualistic
nature of its objectives, tourism development and environmental protection,
are a result of the dominant thought in the early 19708, when, particularly
in developing countries, these two issues were seen as being intertwined.
ORTPN has wide-ranging responsibilities for the maintenance and development
of Rwanda's national parks, as well as for the actual operation and
management of tourism-related infrastructure, particularly hotels.
33.      The Rwandese Government, through ORTPN, has invested substantial
resources for the development of tourism. The cost of hotel construction
alone amounts to more than RwF 2.3 billion. Of the RwF 1.8 billion of losses
incurred by ORTPN since its inception, fully 19 percent are attributable to
the deficit operations of the hotel chain. In part as a result of assistance
received from such organizations as the World Wildlife Fund and Belgian
Technical  Assistance,   operational   losses   related to  protection and
development of the national parks have been modest, accounting, for instance,



- 43-
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 19
between 1983 and 1987 for about RwF 70 million out of a total loss, during
the same period, of almost RwF 950 million.
34.      These staggering losses are not immediately apparent when looking
at the organization's cash accounting methods, and hence, management does not
feel the full pressure of these losses. As a matter of fact, by paring the
costs of, for instance, building and grounds maintenance of the hotels to the
bare minimum, ORTPN manages to subsist witho't outright Government subsidies.
Foreign aid, such as that given by the World Wildlife Fund comes in the form
of donations, without any requirement for local counterpart funding.  The
construction of physical infrastructure, particularly of hotels, is
undertaken by Government with funding whose repayment and interest charges
are Government's responsibilities.   Also, ORTPN has a large amount of
outstanding arrears - -almost RwF 80 million to CSR, and at least RwF 17
million to Electrogaz.
35.      So far, tourism appears to be underdeveloped in Rwanda. Neighboring
countries, particularly Kenya and to a lesser extent Burundi and Tanzania,
show higher growth rates of tourism related income than Rwanda. This may be
due to a number of factors: high cost of stay, resulting in part to exchange
rate overvaluation, French as the dominant language, limited familiarity with
Rwanda, other than as the country where gorillas can be seen, and Rwanda's
own feeble efforts at tourism-related promotions.   Rwanda should be more
attractive to tourism than the current number of visitors implies. It has
largely unexploited attractions of wildlife viewing and bird watching in its
national parks.   It offers,  in mdny parts of the country,  spectacular
scenery.   The main roads are good. There are attractions other than the
typical wildlife viewing, such as water sports on lake Kivu and visits to tea
plantations and tea factories.   Little attention appears to be paid to
packaging the various activities of interest to tourists such that it would
warrant a stay of two to three weeks, which is the norm in, for instance,
Kenya, as compared with the two to three days to see the gorillas. In short,
there appears to be a substantial untapped tourism potential in Rwanda, the
realization of which will depend upon concerted marketing efforts and
facilitating  access  to  the  country.    Easing  of  flight  restrictions,
particularly between Kigali and Nairobi would help to increase the access of
Rwanda to tourists.
36.      The  working  group  report  suggests  splitting  the  two  basic
responsibilities of ORTPN into two organizations: one related to the
environment and the other related to tourism development. Increasing concern
for the environment, and recognition of its protection and maintenance as an
integral part of a society's welfare warrants the establishment of an entity
dedicated to environmental issues, land use and protection of natural
resources.   Any such initiative will be coordinated with the ongoing
preparation of the Environmental Action Plan to ensure consistency with the
overall aims of the ZAP.   The Ministry of Plan is responsible for the
coordination and supervision of environmental issues at the national level.



- 44 -
ANNEX TI
Page 12 of 19
37.      Conditions will have to be created such that sufficient incentives
exist for private tourism-related agencies, both in Rwanda and abroad, to
include Rwanda in a package of tourism attractions. As a corollary, it is
also recognized that Government cannot profitably market and operate the
substantial hotel capacity constructed under its responsibility. The Rvandese
working group proposes that Government should gradually divest itself of its
hotel assets, by selling those that can be sold to private interests, and
closing the remainder. A lesson learned from past experience indicates that
it is dangerous to enter into management contracts, even with the most
reputable hotel management company, that do not tie remuneration to
profitability of the operation.
7.    THE CAISSE SOCIALE DU RWANDA (CSR)
38.      CSR is the country's soclal security agency established in 1962 and
charged with providing pensions, disability and dependent's survival benefits
for wage and salary earners. It does not provide medical benefits. It has
its own statutes, financial autonomy and a Government guarantee to support
its responsibilities.   By law, all salaried Rwandese are eligible for a
social security pension upon reaching the statutory retirement age. Also,
by law, all employers are supposed to enroll their personnel and pay social
security on a shared basis with their employees.   In practice, only an
estimated 40 to 50 percent of all wage earners are in fact enrolled and
contribute.
39.      By the end of 1988, CSR had reserves totalling kwF 12.3 billion.
Due to a very conservative investment policy, 90 percent of these reserves
were either invested with, or were otherwise dependent upon the Government.
The overall yield of this portfolio has been about 5 percent, barely
exceeding average inflation. More ominously, it was estimated that CSR's
investments, on average, had lost 35 percent of their real value by the end
of 1987. On the other hand, between 1982 and 1987, the ratio between revenue
and payments increased from 110 percent to 149 percent.   Operational
efficiency is mediocre with a reported average of one file handled per
person-day.
40.      Apparently, CSR has no capability to do actuarial studies.  Thus,
it cannot estimate objectively its expected future responsibilities and hence
cannot design an operational strategy geared to fulfilling those
responsibilit'es.
41.      In view of the issues raised above, the Rwandese working group
recommends that CSR should:
-     increase the number of wage earners contributing to the
system;
-     undertake   actuarial   studies   to   determine   future
responsibilities and likely revenue from contributions to the
system; and,



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 19
-     liberalize investment restrictions and try to reduce CSR's
dependence upon the Government.
42.      Furthermore,  the  proposal  to  add  health  insurance  to  CSR's
responsibilities should be reconsidered.   Risks inherent in pension and
disability coverage, and those for medical benefits are vastly different. As
a matter of fact, the cost of health insurance is increasing more rapidly,
worldwide, than the cost of pension, disability and survival-related costs.
It appears unwise to risk CSR's pension-related responsibilities with the
uncertain, but probably very high, risks of medical-related insurance in
Rwanda. Such insurance should be provided by a separate institution, as it
is elsewhere in the world. Specialized short-term technical assistance can
be provided through the project to undertake the above studies.
8.    BUREAU D'ETUDES DE PROJETS (BUNEP)
43.      BUNEP was established  in  1978, to create  local expertise  --
technical, economic and financial -- to develop bankable projects.
Furthermore, the Government was hoping to acquire a capability that would be
able to address economic and social issues and provide advice to projects
under execution. In short. BUNEP was intended to be an indigenous, Rwandese,
consulting bureau that would be closely tied to Government.  Its services
were meant primarily for the benefit of the varijus ministries, although it
was intended to address projects that originated in both the public and the
private sector.
44.      By the end of 1987, the Rwandese Government had invested almost
RwF 216 million in BUNEP, of which almu3t RwF 69 million was working capital.
Between 1978 and 1987, BUNEP lost RwF 167 million, apart from direct
operational subsidies. On average, during the same period, value added has
been only 19 percent of revenue, covering not even one-third of salaries
paid. Its capital should be totally lost by the end of 1989.
45.      BUNEP does not appear to have fulfilled its original mission to
become an in-house evaluator and originator, with technical as well as
economic expertise to develop and guide projects.   In effect, BUNEP's
expertise appears concentrated in the field of civil works. For instance,
in 1987, 13 of the 14 projects undertaken, projects with a total investment
cost of approximately RwF 800 million, were related to civil engineering
works. Given the nature of relatively large civil works in Rwanda, this also
implies that Government, and some international organizations, constitute the
major market for BUNEP's services. At the time of its creation, in 1978,
BUNEP was the only technically-oriented consulting company in Rwanda. Since
that time, several other indigenous companies of the same nature have been
established. Furthermore, foreign engineering and consultant companies have
gained a foothold in the Rwandese market. Increasingly, important pre-
feasibility and feasibility studies, co-financed between Government and
foreign donors, are not awarded to BUNEP, reportedly because of its
reputation  of tardiness  and mediocre  quality  of work.   Often, BUNEP



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 19
contributes only with individual personnel, as a sub-contractor, to
supervisory activities of important civil works, themselves contracted by
foreign engineering companies.   Even what would constitute its captive
market, consultant services for the ministries, is increasingly undermined
by in-house expertise of the ministries proper. It would, thus, appear that
a serious erosion is taking place in what had developed as BUNEP's market.
The general economic malaise in Rwanda will probably lead to curtailment of
major civil works in the foreseeable future, while increasing competition
will be fighting for this diminishing pie.
46.      The working group concluded that the mission for which BUNEP was
originally intended, to give the Government in-house technical and economic
evaluation expertise, has been superseded by events. On the one hand, this
same expertise is increasingly available among private consulting firms
established in Rwanda and is offered, apparently satisfactorily, by foreign
companies, mostly supplemented with local expertise. BUNEP, on the other
hand, has not developed into a broad-based technical and economic consulting
company, but its expertise has become more narrowly defined as being
applicable to the civil engineering sector. It was, thus, concluded that
time had come to hand-over the operational responsibility to the professional
staff working in BUNEP, and, in effect, to privatize the office.
Calculations made as part of the same recommendation showed that
privatization of BUNEP would result in net savings to Government of
approximately RwF 8 million per year. It was further suggested that, to this
tangible gain, could be added the intangible advantage of increasing the
competition for public sector contract work.
9.    REGIE DES AEROPORTS DE RWANDA (RAR)
47.      RAR was established in 1986, by presidential decree, as an entity
responsible for the management of air traffic-related infrastructure.  It
took over responsibilities previously exercised by the directorate for civil
aviation of the Ministry of Postal Services and Telecommunications. RAR was
intended to manage services, without having the responsibility of owning the
infrastructure and hence without accountability for profitable operations.
However, it was supposed to finance lts own operating costs, while any excess
was to be deposited in a special account with the Rwandese Development Bank
(BRD). RAR has gone beyond this mandate of operator; it has entered the
partial value of the airports' assets in its books and accounts for
depreciation on them. Thus, RAR now appears to have shouldered the financial
responsibility for several billion Rwandese fre.ncs worth of investments that
require well over RwF 1 billion of financing charges, between repayments of
capital and interest, prior to 1995. Rather, RAR's operations and autonomy
are severely curtailed by: (i) an obligation to maintain Kigali's
international airport operational for 24 hours a day, (ii) having to maintain
ai.ports operational to whom services have long since ceased, (iii) an
inability to raise fees charged for services,  and (iv) very low revenues
from concessions given by the Government to Air Rwanda and to another cargo
handling company.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 19
48.      In sum, the situation with respect to Rwanda's air traffic is
ambiguous. Substantial investments have been made, large financing charges
will be incurred on these investments for the foreseeable future and
maintenance of the facilities will require additional funds.   Although
ultimately, the Government is respl.sible for these costs, it is not clear
where the responsibility rests for seeing that these obligations can be met
at minimum cost to the treasury.  On the other hand, a large portion of
current revenue from air traffic is diverted to the operation of two
concession holders, in effect constituting indirect subsidies. And finally,
revenue could apparently be higher, with service fees still remaining at
levels comparable with those in neighboring countries, while operating costs
could be reduced. The working group report recommends that the authority for
Rwanda's civil air traffic operations be centralized within one entity,
possibly RAR, with the mandate to maximize profitability, so as to ensure the
largest possible coverage of total costs by total revenues. Such a mandate
should not be confused with a responsibility to actually render all services
in-house.      Rather,  most  services  should  be  subcontracted  to  other
organizations through a management contract.
10.   OFFICE POUR LA VALORISATION PASTORALE ET AGRICOLE DU
MUTARA (OVAPAM)
49.      OVAPAM was  created  in 1973  as the executing office  for the
agricultural and livestock related components of an integrated rural
development project financed by the World Bank. OVAPAM was charged with the
execution of those parts of the project that relate to agricultural and
livestock development.   However,  the relation between OVAPAM and the
integrated rural development project was left ill-defined, and in
consequence, so were the respective responsibilities of the Rwandese director
of OVAPAM and the expatriate project manager.   Over the years, several
attempts have been made, most notably during negotiations for a second phase
of the integrated rural development project in 1979, to define better the
acttual role of OVAPAM.  Attempts have also been made to include other
regional development projects under OVAPAM's responsibility.
50.      OVAPAM's achievements appear to be below expectations and its costs
have been excessive. According to an interim completion report, covering the
first phase of the project, OVAPAM's investments in buildings and the cost
of its own office, including technical assistance, represented 84 percent of
the total cost of the project. Productive investments accounted for not more
than 16 percent. Presently, the costs of general services and personnel are
70 percent of total annual costs of OVAPAM.  This appears the excessive since
over the years OVAPAM's responsibilities have been reduced when certain parts
of the project were deemed finished and were handed over to Government. The
only remaining activities of OVAPAM, at present, are agricultural extension
and the commercial activities of a farm and a dairy plant.
51.      By the end of 1987, the agricultural and livestock development
project of Nutara had been funded by almost RwF 1.7 billion, of which 75
percent were borrowed funds, mostly from IDA. Direct operational costs of



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 19
the project, apart from financing charges, have been estimated at over
RwF 140 million per year. These charges are fully incurred by the Rwandese
Government. The general development plan for the region of Mutara, for the
next 15 years, will require further investments valued at over RwF 16
billion, the equivalent of more than US$200 million. More than 45 percent
of this investment is planned for the development of irrigated agriculture.
52.      The  working  group  report  recommends  that  the  few  remaining
activities of OVAPAM should be incorporated with the appropriate ministries.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests would be responsible for
agricultural extension and for the collection of agricultural production
statistics.  The remaining commercial and industrial activities of OVAPAM,
operation of a farm and a dairy plant, should be privatized.
11.   OFFICE DE PYRETHRE DU RWANDA (OPYRWA)
53.      Pyrethrum is a natural insecticide, made from a daisy-like flower
that thrives at higher elevations close to the equator where ultraviolet
radiation is strong. OPYRWA is Rwanda's pyrethrum processing and marketing
company. It is also responsible for providing extension services to several
thousand smallholders.   Smallholders who have settled in the pyrethrum
growing area have an obligation to grow pyrethrum flowers on a certain
percentage of their land. International market prices for pyrethrum extract
have been erratic, mainly as a result of the competition from synthetics.
OPYRWA is fully government-owned.  Part of its processing plant has been
financed with UNDP assistance.
54.      As a result of severe losses, the Government contemplated closing
the operation in the early 1980's, effectively abandoning pyrethrum
cultivation in Rwanda. OPYRWA had been unprofitable due to economic as well
as management reasons.   Strong competition from synthetics in the 1970s
reduced demand for pyrethrum. The company also was the victim of massive
fraud and embezzlement activities. An audit of OPYRWA in 1987, nevertheless,
stated that abandonment of pyrethrum cultivation in Rwanda might be a mistake
and that a restructured OPYRWA should be given a second chance. Since then,
the demand for 'natural' products such as pyrethrum has increased, causing
prices to rise and the company's top management has been replaced.
55.      In early 1989, OPYRWA's management began to discuss the possibility
of selling all or part of the company to its major client, a U.S. company.
These discussions are on-going.   The technical assistance that will be
available under the project could be called upon to   assist with these
discussions in any way deemed potentially useful.
12.   ELECTROGAZ
56.      The actual restructuring of the electricity company will be assumed
by a separate project funded by IDA. This project will assist with improving
the institutional and legal constraints which impede its efficiency.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 19
B.       THE FOUR ENTERPRISES TO BE PRIVATIZED
13.   L 'IMPRIMERIE NATIONALE
57.      This government-owned print shop was established in 1967, under the
tutelage of the Ministry of Finance. It was intended to serve as the sole
supplier of print materials and other office consumables to all ministries.
Over the years, one other government-owned printing company has been
established, originally dedicated to the production of schoolbooks and other
teaching aids, as well as 12 private print shops in Kigali alone. In part
for competitive reasons, and in part due to alleged under performance,
particularly tardiness in completing orders, the Imprimerie has gradually
lost business to alternative sources of supply. The most telling loss was
the printing of the official Government journal in 1987 by the other
government-owned print shop.
58.      The President of Rwanda announced, in a June 1988 speech, that
l'Imprimerie Nationale was one of the four public enterprises slated for
privatization. The Ministry of Finance ordered an audit of the company, with
the stated objective of determining its correct value.   This audit was
carried out by the CCO. Rather than limiting itself to the determination of
the company's value, this audit, reportedly, makes three alternative
suggestions for the future of the company, only one of which is
privatization.   The other two are: merging l'Imprimerie with the other
government-owned print shop, or continuation as an individual public
enterprise after operational and managerial streamlining.   The present
position of the Imprimerie's board of directors, which has been without a
president since 1985, is that l'Imprimerie's status of monopoly supplier to
the ministries should be restored, according to its original statute. An
interest in acquiring l'Imprimerie has apparently been expressed formally to
the Ministry of Finance by a Belgian party through the Rwandese Embassy in
Kinshasa.
59.      L'Imprimerie currently employs 152 staff, down from 235 in 1986.
As is customary for Rwandese public enterprises, the mandate and appointment
of the company's director-general has been made directly by the President of
the Republic.   In principle, the appointment is indefinite.   The company
occupies  two buildings  in central Kigali.    It  is well-equipped with
Heidelberg rotary off-set presses acquired in 1982. Computerized typesetting
was introduced only a few years ago. This relatively new machinery is housed
in an equally new, attractive, four story building.
14.   Socidtd Nationale des tubes (SONATUBES)
60.      SONATUBES has always been a mixed enterprise, with 70 percent
foreign interests, held by a public sector institution from the French-
speaking part of Belgium, the remainder by the Rwandese Government (21Z) and
BRD (9X). Recently, the Belgian public sector holding was acquired by a
private entrepreneur of that same country, who has, reportedly, other



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 19
interests in Africa.  This same entrepreneur has expressed an interest in
acquiring the remainder of Rwandese shareholdings.
61.      SONATUBES is a manufacturing and trading company.  It is one of two
local producers of PVC pipe and a manufacturer of a limited size range of
steel pipes. It is a major supplier to the building industry, largely from
imports. Until a few years ago, company revenue was about evenly divided
between manufacturing and trade. Lately, this balance has shifted in the
direction of trading, with now only 30 percent of revenue derived from the
pipe business and 70 percent from trade. There is some competition between
the two PVC pipe manufacturers in Rwanda with what appears to be a price war
for the product. Trading, being largely dependent on imports, suffers from
the lack of foreign exchange availability in general and from the allocation
of what is available   in a manner that is intended to promote Rwandese
interests.   As a result, a multitude of small would-be traders import
relatively small lots of articles that subsequently are resold to SONATUBES
after adding an appropriate margin.
62.      This financial audit of SONATUBES uncovered, among other things, a
loss of about RwF 150 million in 87/88, fully RwF 100 million of which were
traced to thefts. Current management blames laxity of the former Belgian
public sector shareholders and their management for this corruption.   A
number of persons and companies implicated in these thefts have now been
taken to court. This issue will most likely delay the privatization process.
15.       RWANTEXCO
63.      This company is the sole producer of blankets in Rwanda, with a
monopoly on its trade. Imports are allowed only when RWANTEXCO cannot supply
the entire market. The company was started in the early 1970s, by a private
individual as an investment scam. After externalizing the foreign exchange
allocated to the company for the acquisition of its production assets, the
entrepreneur in question fled the country. The Government then requested the
current private shareholders, a Rwandese and a Belgian company holding
between them 51 percent, to salvage the operation.
64.      As in the case of the Imprimerie, privatization was announced as a
surprise to the company, apparently without prior consultation with either
management or shareholders. In what may be a defensive move by management,
the company has shown in 1988, a sudden increase in profits, rising to
approximately 20 percent of sales. Also, the capacity utilization has gone
up, now being between 60 and 70 percent. The board of directors is of the
opinion that, if privatization has to occur, the current shareholders should
have preference in buying the remainder of ownership.
65.      Again, the Government contracted a private firm to conduct an audit
to establish the correct value of the company. However, this audit has been
delayed by bankruptcy of the company that was originally contracted to
perform this work.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 19
16.      Societe des transports internationaux du Rwanda (STIR)
66.      STIR was founded in 1974 as an interregional transport company.  It
is 80 percent owned by the Government and other public enterprises, such as
the Caisse Sociale du Rwanda, the Caisse d'Epargne and OCIR-Th4. The rest
of its shareholders are private individuals. Rwanda has a total of four
companies that operate regional trucking operations; the other three are
privately owned. To limit the number of trucking companies, the law states
that a trucking firm must have a minimum of RwF 100 million in capital, 20
trucks, a garage, parking facilities and be 51 percent Rwandese-owned. All
private, individual truckers must subcontract to one of these companies.
STIR has 60 of its own trucks and about 450 that are subcontracted.  It
employs 230 staff in Kigali, 80 in Mombasa and 30 in Nairobi.  Of the 24
managerial staff, all but three are employed on a contract basis.
67.      The price of transport has dropped in recent years.  Between 1986
and mid-1989, STIR prices went from RwF 19 to 14.5-16.5 per metric ton for
the trip from Mombasa to Kigali.   This drop is partly due to a severe
contraction of coffee production in 1989.   Even so, Kenyan transporters
charge only RwF 9-10 since costs are much lower in Kenya mainly due to the
devaluation of the Kenyan shilling.   Rwanda importers, however, are not
permitted to use Kenyan transporters.
68.      In 1983, STIR suffered losses of RwF 456 million or 83 percent of
its capital.  In 1987, it had a modest RwF 2 million in profits and the
results from 1988 were unknown as of mid-1989. Since 1976, the company has
been in arrears to the Government for taxes. It currently owes over RwF 220
million; since the Government charges 15 percent on arrears, the amount is
growing rapidly. The company's management wishes the Government to convert
this debt into equity while the Government wishes to sell its participation
in the company and convert these arrears into a long-term debt with the
Ministry of Finance.
69.      In May 1989,  the Government commissioned an audit of STIR to
establish the book value of the company. Results should be available in late
1989.



- 52 -
ANNEX III
RWANDA PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal         Quarter             Quarter            Cumulative             2 of
Year Quarter       Ending           Disbursements       Disbursements            Total
91-1               9130/90                0.07                0.07                2Z
91-2              12131190                0.20                0.27                62
91-3               3/30191                0.35                0.62               142
91-4               6/30/91                0.45                1.07               24?
92-1               9130/91                0.30                1.37               312
92-2              12/31191                0.31                1.68               382
92-3               3/30/92                0.31                1.99               45Z
92-4               6/30/92                0.31                2.30               522
93-1               9/30/92                0.28                2.58               582
93-2              12/31192                0.27                2.85               642
93-3               3/30/93                0.26                3.11               702
93-4               6/30/93                0.26                3.37               76?
94-1               9/30/93                0.25                3.62               822
94-2              12/31/93                0.25                3.87               87?
94-3               3/30/94                0.24                4.11               93Z
94-4               6/30/94                0.24                4.35               98?
95-1               9/30/95                0.05                4.40               99X
95-2              12/31/95                0.04                4.44              1002



- 53 -                             ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 7
RVANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORK PROJECT
Government Policy Statement on Public Enterprise Reform
1.        Government financial intervention in the economic sector currently
extends to 62 public enterprises, including 21 public establishments, 5
regies, 6 government enterprises, and 30 mixed enterprises.
2.        Where the 30 mixed enterprises are concerned, the Government and/or
its agencies hold an absolute majority in 10 companies and a relative
majority in nine, with minority in 10 companies and a relative majority in
9, with minority holdings in the other 11.
3.        At the root of these operations was the Government's firm intention
to promote an economic sector that was practically nonexistent at the time
of Rwanda's accession to independence, thereby offsetting the absence of
private enterprises, and its desire for greater control over activities
deemed strategic. Today, Government intervention reaches into practically
all sectors of economic activity.
4.        After close to 25 years of government interventionism, its true
effectiveness is very much in question. Are the public enterprises capable
of contributing to the country's economic takeoff, or do they in effect stand
in its way?   Is Government intervention still justified for all those
activities that have now been taken over either exclusively or jointly with
private operators? Are the various forms of Government intervention still
appropriate?    Will  they  bring  about  sound  management  and  proper
accountability at the management level?
5.        Is the financial cost borne by the Government in making up the
overall public enterprise deficit compatible with the austerity measures
imposed by the policy for re-establishing financial and economic equilibria?
6.        It was at the start of the present decade that the Government began
to take particular notice of the public enterprise sector, which was
consistently performing poorly despite an increase in State subsidies.
7.        In  order  to  better  comprehend  the  problems  of  the  public
enterprises, and in line with the recommendations of the Fourth Ordinary
Congress of the Mouvement Revolutionnaire National pour le D4veloppement
(MRND), held from June 26 to 30, 1983, the Rwandese Government set up an
advisory and assistance service to create management tools (accounting
systems) for the public enterprises, propose reorganization measures to
increase the efficiency of the service entities, and conduct diagnostic
studies to evaluate performance.



- 54 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 7
8.        Since its creation, this service, known as the Central Bureau of
Accounting and Organization (Centrale Comptable et Organisation), has:
-    devised  a  budgetary  code  of  conduct  for  all  public
establishments;
-    provided training for management and accounting service staff;
-    audited some 10 public establishments.
9.        In parallel with the activities of the Central Bureau of Accounting
and Organization, the Rwandese Government and its policymakers have continued
to research and identify suitable ways of improving sector performance.
10.       In his opening address before the Fifth Ordinary Congress of the
MRND on December 20, 1985, the Head of State stressed the need for sound
public enterprise management, referring particularly to the responsibilities
of each of the specific administrative bodies (supervisory ministry,
government commissioner, board of directors, auditors, and those persons in
charge of day-to-day management).
11.       In his closing remarks following his meetings with Government
employees on June 15, 1987, the Head of State brought up the subject again,
offering  the  following  guidelines  for  improving  public  establishment
management:
-    review  of  the  framework  and  structure  of  the  public
establishments and of the possibility of their operating in
accordance with the logic of the marketplace;
-    differentiation of public establishments according to their
function as an administrative and/or social service, or as
an economic, financial, or commercial enterprise;
-    for commercial establishments, formulation of a performance
contract to government relations between the State and the
establishment concerned.
12.       This definition of the Government's role in economic affairs was
clarified by the Read of State on June 10, 1988, following his meetings with
the economic operators. In his closing address, he stressed the Government's
firm intention both to limit its active role in economic matters to strategic
or vital areas, whose importance is such that they can only be handled by the
State, and to give up those areas where the private sector can do just as
well or better.
13.       Accordingly,  he decided that the Government would no longer
intervene by taking equity participations to promote new enterprises when
this was no longer necessary.  Moreover, he stressed that the Government
still had no objection to opening up public establishments to private sector
participation.



- 55 -
ANNE IV
Page 3 of 7
14.       In the case of existing mixed enterprises, the Read of State
undertook to have the Government conduct a new survey to determine which
public companies could validly continue to come under that heading. Lastly,
he announced the Government's decision to withdraw from a number of public
enterprises, specifically two public establishments and three mixed
companies.
15.       The concern of the Head of State is shared by the NRND Central
Committee, which, when the broad lines of the 1989 budget were drawn up, also
recommended a review of way and means by which the Government could better
withdraw from certain public or mixed establishments and refrain from adding
to the number of r4gies.
16.       In addition to the guidelines offered by the Head of State and the
activities of the Central Bureau of Accounting and Organization, a World
Bank-financed study on public enterprise reform has just been completed.
17.       The various guidelines given by the Head of State and the MMD
Central Committee thus represent the policy reference for public enterprise
reform.   The recommendations of the Central Bureau of Accounting and
Organization, and the lessons that can be drawn from the study on public
enterprise reform, will help with the implementation of this policy.
i8.       The Government's policy on public enterprises aims to create a
general framework within which it will be possible to reactivate the national
production potential and improvement efficiency of Government resource
management.    It proposes  a blanket  strategy and selective activities
appropriate to each enterprise.   The proposed action centers on three
restructuring modalities: establishment of a general framework for Government
intervention, identification of procedures for Government withdrawal, and
recovery of those enterprises that will continue to operate with Government
or Government-agency intervention.
19.       The ministerial department responsible for the Government portfolio
will implement this policy.
I.        Establishment of a General Framework for Government Intervention
1.   Key Options
20.       The framework for intervention will comprise fully government-owned
companies,  public establishments,  and national companies.   The public
establishment category will include enterprises rendering a service in the
public interest and functioning largely under Government auspices in a non-
competitive environment.
21.       The national companies category will include enterprises operating
in a competitive environment, which are regarded as viable, but which the
Government wants to keep among its assets because of their particular nature.
These are joint stock companies whose capital is subscribed either completely



- 56 -
ANNEX TV
Page 4 of 7
by the Government or by the Government with juridical persons operating under
public law.
22.       A national company differs from a public establishment in that its
orientation is essentially industrial and commercial and it has capital
stock. Although not open to private participation, a national company is
governed by private company management rules, except in specific areas
related to its strategic nature.
23.       Implementation of the above key options will require amendment of
the existing legislation on public establishments.
2.   Subsidiary Actions
24.       Publication of the general framework for financial intervention
by the Government and its agencies will be followed by an operation
classifying the public enterprises now being surveyed in new categories.
Those that cannot be reclassified, and those mixed enterprises in which
Government participation is considered inappropriate, will be restructured,
privatized or liquidated.
II.       State Vithdrawal
25.       Efforts to expand and diversify the public enterprises have used
up a large part of the Government financial resources.  Despite numerous
efforts at recovery, the deficit burden is not getting any lighter, and is
jeopardizing  achievement  of  the  Government's  goal  of  public  finance
rehabilitation.   Moreover,  the Government does not have the requisite
experience or organization to prepare its fully-owned enterprises for the
dynamic management of a commercial business.
26.       The Government needs to minimize its area of intervention in the
business sphere and to concentrate on its priorities. Withdrawal opetations
should be tailored to the particular situation of each enterprise and
designed to ensure that the transition progresses smoothly.
27.       However, while it is not desirable to retain those enterprises
that are capable of privatization, they should not be handed over blindly.
It makes no sense for the Government to withdraw unless the private sector
gets more involved in the investment and job creation process. Governmpnt
withdrawal will not result in more efficient management of the country's8
resources unless the country's economic operators take over. They need to
get more involved in improving competitiveness among the enterprises through
investment, innovation and a search for new markets.
2.        Strategy
28.       The operations described above, concerning the establishment of a
general  framevork  for  Government  financial  intervention,  will  be
prerequisites for the Government's withdrawal strategy. This strategy will
need to be based on a systematic review of the Government's portfolio, on a



- 57 -
ANNmX IV
Page 5 of 7
precise methodological and institutional framework, and on support measures
to facilitate its implementation.
29.       The modalities for implementing this strategy could take several
formss
-    enterprise reclassification;
-    partial or total transfer of Government shareholdings5
-    phasing out of units whose functions have been completed;
-    transfer to the central Government of the activities of
certain public services.
30.       Every withdrawal will be preceded by a study confirming that this
is the indicated course of action, comparing the various possible options,
and recommending a timetable and implementation procedures.
31.       While choices must be based, above all, on community and taxpayer
interests, they must also take account of the financial objectives of the
Government and the specific interest of users, customers and employees.
Ill.      Public Enterprise Recovery
32.       There is one sphere of activities that cannot escape direct
Government intervention, or at least Government supervision, either because
the State alone can safeguard the public interest, or because it alone has
control over the mechanisms of change, or because it alone can take the risk
of investing in its strategic sectors, as identified in the economic, social
and cultural development plan.
33.       The aim of public enterprise recovery is to bring about, at the
lowest cost, volume and quality improvements in the services rendered to the
community.   For national companies, the financial return will also be a
consideration.
34.       The action to be taken within the framework of public enterprise
recovery will be tailored to the context of each institution. However, where
rationalization of Government-public enterprise relations is concerned, a
systematic, standardized approach will be adopted for each of the following
three groups:
National companies, management autonomy will be strengthened
through a performance contract laying down the obligations of
both Government and enterprise for a fixed time period. A
posteriori supervision will be favored.
Public establishments for which the Government's financial
contribution is justified by their exclusively public or
social orientation and which are juridical persons with
administrative autonomy.



- 58 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 7
-    Lastly, mixed enterprises in which relations between the
Government and the other partners will be governed by private
law.
2.        Strateay
35.       The public service function of each enterprise will need to be
defined and delimited, and subsidies must remain proportionate to the scope
and importance of that function.
36        A performance system will be established to monitor the performance
of the public enterprises and their overall impact on the public finances and
key economic indicators such as the balance of payments and domestic and
external indebtedness levels.
37.       With respect to forms of management, the general rule will be to
favor autonomy and accountability for the management organs of the
enterprises, with a view to improving operational and organizational
efficiency. In particular, the Government will refrain from interfering in
day-to-day operations. Going back to its original role as the planner and
regulator of economic activity, the Government needs to be more referee than
actor, devoting more attention to identifying the medium and long term
sectoral policies by which the actions of the enterprises will be defined.
This movement toward autonomy does, however, presuppose a demonstrable
ability on the part of the enterprises to set up efficient management
systemss accounting, performance charts, forward planning, commercial policy,
etc.
38.       As in the case of withdrawal, the strategy for medium term recovery
is based on an evaluation of the Government's portfolio, sectoral diagnostic
studies, and any support measures that will expedite decision-making on
enterprise recovery, simplify supervision by Government agencies, and lead
to a lasting improvement of management systems and capacities.
39.       To achieve the two objectives, the enterprises will first of all
be assigned priority according to the size of their deficit net of subsidy.
Then, in the case of viable enterprises, the choice of recovery priorities
will be defined by the indirect economic aid granted by the Government and
the conditions for improving their self-financing margins.
40.       Every performance contract must include a precise description of
the functions of the enterprise, an evaluation of costs and the corresponding
multiyear estimates of operating results, identification of the form of
government ceatrol and the degree of autonomy exercised by the enterprise,
the amount of government funding, performance incentives (bonuses and
penalties) and the necessary measures to ensure financial recovery and the
absorption of arrears to the banking sector and private suppliers.
41.       The performance contract system will be supplemented by a less
cumbersome system of performance evaluation for those enterprises which,
because there are so many of them, do not have a performance contract.



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 7
42.       Finally, government policy on public enterprises should permit the
reactivation of a large development potential, thanks to the overhaul of
certain supervision or intervention mechanisms, the opening up of certain
activities to new economic actors, and the adoption of rational subsidization
procedures. However, the Rwandese Government will continue to fully exercise
its role as the referee and overall organizer of economic life.



- 60 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
RWANDA PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
KEY PROGRAM ACTIONS
Measure                     Action                      Deadline
A.  Legal and               -  completion of            November 30, 1990
Institutional              examination of
Framework:                 draft by the CIC
Revision of                Technique
Legislation on          -  completion of           December 31, 1990
Public                     examination of
Enterprises                draft  by the CIC
Ministeriel
-  Approval by the         January 31, 1991
Council of
Government
-  Adoption by the         March 31, 1991
National Council
of Development
B.  General                 -  completion of            December 31, 1990
Privatization              examination of
Strategy                   draft by the CIC
Technique
-  completion of           January 31, 1991
examination of
draft by the CIC
Minist*riel
-  approval by the         February 28, 1991
Council of
Government
C.  Rwandese                -  completion of            March 31, 1991
Republic's                 privatization or
Divestiture:               liquidation plans
for the
SONATUBES                  enterprises on a
Imprimerie                 case by case
Nationale du               basis.
Rwanda                  -  completion of           April 30, 1991
STIR                       examination of
RWANTEXCO                  plans by the CIC
Forge                      Technique
Gouvernementale         -  completion of            May 31, 1991
OVAPAM                     examination of
Perimetres                 plans by the CIC
rizicoles                  Minist4riel
Papeteries du           -  approval by the          June 30, 1991
Rwanda                     Council of
ORTPN (Hotel               Government and
activity)                  starting of the
execution of
divestiture
measures.



- 61 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
D.  Rehabilitation         -  completion of            May 31, 1991
andlor                     formulation of
Restructuring of:          contract-plans on
a case by case
_  Malserie de                basis and
Mukamira                   prioritization of
-  OVIBAR                      interventions
_   ORTPN (Tourism         -  completion of            June 30, 1991
and National              examination of
Parks activities)         contract-plans by
-   Regie des                  the CIC Technique
Aeroports              -  completion of            July 31, 1991
-   BUNEP                      examination of
-   ELECTROGAZ                 contract-plans by
-   Caisse Sociale du          the CIC
Rvanda                    Ministeriel
-   Sucrerie               -  approval by the          August 31, 1991
Rwandaise                  Council of
Government
-  signing of              October 31, 1991
contract-plans.
E.  Diagnostic             -  completion of            December 31, 1991
Studies for:              diagnostic
studies
-   Caisse                 -  completion of            February 28, 1992
Hypoth4caire du            examination by
Rvanda                     the CIC Technique
-  AIR RWANDA              -  completion of            April 30, 1992
-   REDEHI                     examination by
-   ONATRACOM                 the CIC
-   OCIR-THE                  Minist4riel
-   OCIR-CAFE              -  approval by the          June 30, 1992
-   OPROVIA                   Council of
-   TRAWIPRO                  Government
- SONARWA
- SOMITRAP
- SONAFRUITS
- OPYRWA
- Regie de
1'Imprimerie
Scolaire
- MAGERWA
- SODEPARAL
- SORWAL
- Caisse d'Epargne
du Rwanda
- Regie Apicole
- Cimenterie
- Laiteries
- Petrorwanda
- RWANDEX
- BRD



- 62 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
F.  Contract-plans          -  completion of             December 31, 1992
for Enterprises            elaboration of
to be                      contract-plans on
Rehabilitated               a case by case
among those                basis and
Listed in                  prioritization
Paragraph E above       -  completion of             January 31, 1993
examination by
the CIC Technique
-  completion of            February 28, 1993
examination by
the CIC
Ministeriel
-  approval by the          March 31, 1993
Council of
Government
-  signature of             May 31, 1993
contract-plans
G.  Privatization or        -  completion of             October 31, 1992
Liquidation                elaboration of
Strategies for             privatization or
Enterprises to be           liquidation of
Privatized or              enterprises on a
Liquidated among            case by case
those Listed in            basis
Paragraph E above       -  completion of             November 30, 1992
examination by
the CIC Technique
-  completion of            December 31, 1992
examination by
the CIC
Ministeriel
-  approval by the          January 31, 1993
Council of
Government and
starting of the
execution of
divestiture
measures.



[ORD 1847
 oMb-,o, k Koinpalo
29'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
RWANDA 
POPIJLATION DENSITY BY COMMUNE, 1978                                                         UGANDAROmb                                                             /
53S DENSIrES DE POPUlATON PAR COMMMAZ 1975                                         (F
POPULATION DENSITY (PERSONS PER KM')                                                                              K   IT                                                 NZ       NI
fIMA8/TYATS PAR KAI2,/
____ MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                        NATIONAL PARUNGRNATONAL
ROUTES PR/NVCIPAtES
RIVERS                                                                                       /                          .PARC VAT/OMAt                                  >6
CAPITAL                                                                                                                                  DAR Z'AKAGZ,RA
* NAT.ONAL CAIA
PREFECTURE CAPITAL                         Gon,
Chf  E  RPREFECTURE
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES
/MITE$ DES COMMUNES
___PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES/                                                IIv
I hl,SASPREFEC-TURESAK   /                I
.NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARIES 
....   AIMITS Dr$PARPCSN0ATIONAtlM'1~
___INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    I                                                                                                                                 -'
FRONTAERCS                                                            '   0                                            ~.
Ta                                                                                                                                                                             (  2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kb
(ibu~~~~~~~a
/                  60  iS                                   j      
w-g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-a
0100,0 0000* acne 0400 a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      0                          50     6,    ,0      8
Z  A irdI R E 0KILOMETRactic,___
TANZANOi AtMILESatOed"O
AMBoajlAg                                                  BURUNDIei
OL A.0    Q a   o4a ealF- C -ea Ole
-\ai , D. _nbeao ZAnLe                                                      a,so-u
lonednas oat 8,0601~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SETMER18



