Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16406
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
(Credit 2113-RW)
MARCH 26, 1997
Private Sector and Finance Technical Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Rwanda Franc (RwF)
US$1.00                     RwF 298.6233 (July 15, 1996)
SDR 1                       US$ 1.44358
ANNUAL AVERAGE
Year                        USS1=
1988                        RwF 77
1989                        RwF 80
1990                        RwF 83
1991                        RwF 125
1992                        RwF 132
1993                        RwF 144
1994                        RwF 134
1995                        RwF 260
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                      US Equivalent
I meter (m)                 3.28 feet (ft)
I hectare (ha)              2.47 acres (a)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMIRWANDA            Agence Maritime Internationale au Rwanda
BACAR                Banque Continentale Africaine du Rwanda
BCR                  Boucherie-Charcuterie du Rwanda
BNR                  Banque Nationale du Rwanda
BRALIWA              Brasseries et Limonaderies du Rwanda
BRD                  Banque Rwandaise de Developpement
BUNEP                Bureau National d'Etudes de Projets
CCO                  Centrale Comptable et Organisation
CIC                  Comite Interministeriel de Coordination
CID                  Credit Intercommunal de Developpement
CIMERWA              Ciments du Rwanda
aVice President    :Callisto kladavo
Director           :Nils Tchevani
Maniager           :Thomas Allen
Staff Menmber      :Henmlinia NMartinez



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CRHT               Compagnie Rwandaise d'H6tellerie et du Tourisme
CSR                Caisse Sociale du Rwanda
EEC                European Economic Community
ELECTROGAZ         Etablissement Public de Production de Transport et de
Distribution de l'Eau, d'Electricite et de Gaz
ETIRU              Etablissement Industriel du Rwanda
FSG                Fonds Special Garantie Bancaire
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
INR                Imprimerie Nationale du Rwanda
ISAR               Institute of Agricultural Research
ISFP               Institut Superieur des Finances Publiques
LABOPHAR           Laboratoire Pharmaceutique du Rwanda
MAGERWA            Magasins Generaux du Rwanda
OCIR-CAFE          Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda-Cafe
OCIR-THE           Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda-The
ONATRACOM          Office National des Transports en Commun
OPROVIA            Office de Developpement et Commercialisation des Produits
Vivriers et Animaux
OPYRWA             Office du Pyrethre du Rwanda
ORTPN              Office Rwandais du Tourisme et des Parcs Nationaux
OVAPAM             Office de la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du Mutara
OVIBAR             Office de Valorisation Industrielle des Bananeraies du Rwanda
PE                 Public Enterprise
PETRORWANDA   Societe Rwandaise d'Entreposage et de Distribution de Produits
Petroliers
REDEMI             Regie des Mines du Rwanda
RWANDATEL          Rwanda Telecommunications
RWANTEXCP          Rwandese Textile Company
SN                 Societe Nationale
SOMIRWA            Societe Miniere du Rwanda
SONARWA            Societe Nationale d'Assurance du Rwanda
SONAFRUITS         Societe Nationale de Traitement de Fruits
SONATUBES          Societe Nationale des Tubes
SOPAB              Soci6te de Productions d'Aliments pour Betail
SORWAL             Societe Rwandaise des Allumettes
SORWATHE           Societe Rwandaise pour la Production et Commercialisation du
The
STIR               Societe des Transports Internationaux du Rwanda
ZAIRE-NIL          Projet Crete Zaire-Nil (minoterie, menuiserie)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CSR                Caisse Sociale du Rwanda
EEC                European Economic Community
ELECTROGAZ         Etablissement Public de Production de Transport et de
Distribution de l'Eau, d'Electricite et de Gaz
ETIRU              Etablissement Industriel du Rwanda
FSG                Fonds Special Garantie Bancaire
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
INR                Imprimerie Nationale du Rwanda
ISAR               Institute of Agricultural Research
ISFP               Institut Superieur des Finances Publiques
LABOPHAR           Laboratoire Pharmaceutique du Rwanda
MAGERWA            Magasins Generaux du Rwanda
OCIR-CAFE          Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda-Cafe
OCIR-THE           Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda-The
ONATRACOM          Office National des Transports en Commun
OPROVIA            Office de Developpement et Commercialisation des Produits
Vivriers et Animaux
OPYRWA             Office du Pyrethre du R. .'anda
ORTPN              Office Rwandais du Tourisme et des Parcs Nationaux
OVAPAM             Office de la Valorisation Pastorale et Agricole du Mutara
OVIBAR             Office de Valorisation Industrielle des Bananeraies du Rwanda
PE                 Public Enterprise
PETRORWANDA   Societe Rwandaise d'Entreposage et de Distribution de Produits
Petroliers
REDEMI             Regie des Mines du Rwanda
RWANDATEL          Rwanda Telecommunications
RWANTEXCP          Rwandese Textile Company
SN                 Societe Nationale
SOMIRWA            Societe Miniere du Rwanda
SONARWA            Societe Nationale d'Assurance du Rwanda
SONAFRUITS         Societe Nationale de Traitement de Fruits
SONATUBES          Societe Nationale des Tubes
SOPAB              Societe de Productions d'Aliments pour Betail
SORWAL             Societe Rwandaise des Allumettes
SORWATHE           Societe Rwandaise pour la Production et Commercialisation du
ThM
STIR               Societe des Transports Internationaux du Rwanda
ZAIRE-NIL          Projet Crete Zaire-Nil (minoterie, menuiserie)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
(Credit 2113-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary .......................................                                                                       i-v
Part I - Projet Implementation Assessment ........................................1
Introduction ........................................1
1. Project Objectives and Design ........................................2
2. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................3
Institutional and Legal Framework ........................................3
The PE Reform Program ........................................4
Support to the Directorate of Public Enterprises ........................................5
3. Major Factors Affecting the Project ........................................5
4. Project Sustainability ........................................6
5. Bank Performance .........................................7
6. Borrower Performance .........................................7
7. Assessment of Outcome .........................................8
8. Future Operations .........................................8
9. Key Lessons Learned .........................................9
Part II - Statistical Annexes
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Studies Included in Project
Table 7A:  Project Costs
Table 7B:  Project Financing
Table 8:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:    Compliance with Opeational Manual Statements
Table 10    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11:   Bank Resources: Missions
Appendix:
Borrower's Contribution: Ministry of Finance






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
(Credit 2113-RW)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprise
Reform Project in Rwanda, for which Credit 2113-RW in the amount of SDR 3.4 million
(US$4.9 million equivalent) was approved on March 27, 1990, and made effective on
February 28, 1991.
The Credit was closed on April 15, 1996, 15 months and a half after the original
closing date. Final disbursement took place on July 26, 1996, and a balance of SDR
1,620,963 (US$2,327,103 equivalent) remained in the account and was canceled on
December 30, 1996. IDA and the Government were the sole financiers of the project.
Given the civil war and related social and economic unrest, it was in fact impossible for
the project to succeed; it has succeeded, however, in putting the reform agenda on the
front burner and the reconstructed data base is a very useful instrument for future
privatization work.
The Borrower's contribution to the ICR is in the appendix of this report, together
with an unofficial summary in English. The ICR was prepared by Chau Duong of the
Africa Private Sector and Finance Technical Group (AFTPI). It was reviewed by
Herminia Martinez, Principal Operations Officer (AFTP1) and by P. Hari Prasad, Lead
Specialist (AFTS2).
Preparation of this ICR was started in July 1996. It is based on existing material
in the project file and discussions with the last Task Manager of the project (Mr. Yves
Terracol).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
(Credit 2113-RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Background.  In 1988, the poor performance of Rwanda's large public sector
and its heavy drain on public finances was recognized as one of the main factors
contributing to the Government's budgetary problem. Other problems affecting the
economy included a combination of weakening coffee prices, the impact of oil price hikes
and inappropriate macroeconomic policies.  The Public Enterprise Reform Project
(PERP) (US$4.9 million) was approved by IDA's Board on March 27, 1990, declared
effective on February 28, 1991, and closed on April 15, 1996. The project was directed
toward a rationalization and restructuring of public enterprises in an effort to stimulate
economic growth. The project's components aimed to: (a) formulate a policy reform
package (including reforms in the institutional and legal framework) covering the whole
public enterprise (PE) sector; (b) increase the sector's efficiency through rehabilitation of
viable enterprises, divestiture of those which could be privatized and liquidation of non-
viable ones; and (c) develop the national capacity to design, implement and monitor PE
reforms.
2.    Evaluation of Objectives. The project's objectives were appropriate given the
state of the country's deteriorating economy in 1990 and the Government's desire to
restore it to its pre-1980s competitiveness. Improving the efficiency of resource use by
the PE sector was a key element of financial equilibrium and growth. The operation was
part of Government's approach of addressing sectoral adjustment issues, while seeking to
reach consensus on structural macroeconomic adjustment. It was timely in addressing
issues facing public enterprises before the latter reached crisis proportion. Rehabilitation,
as opposed to divestiture, of the enterprises that constituted the heaviest drain on the
Government's budget was the dominant objective of the project and the prevailing theme
at the time.
3.   Implementation, however, proved to be excessively slow and the Directorate of
Public Enterprises (DEP, the project executing unit in the Finance Ministry) staff were
not up to the task at hand. The adoption of a new legal framework for PEs and the
approval by the Government of a detailed privatization strategy suffered significant
technical delays. The initial study completed during preparation turned out to be
incomplete and not fully accurate. The poor management of PEs and their deficient
accounting systems made the initial analysis difficult. The project technical assistance



- ii -
team undertook an exhaustive review and came up with a situation more dismal than
expected: half of the enterprises in the portfolio were losing money, while the other half
were badly managed.  The PE managers, threatened by impending reforms and
emboldened by delays in the passing of the PE law and the adoption of a privatization
strategy, resisted restructuring/privatization initiatives.
4.    Recognizing that PE restructuring under those circumstances was doomed to
failure, the Government agreed in July 1993 to restructure the project. After the mid-term
review, PERP's objectives were thus redirected with primary emphasis put on
privatization and the scope of intervention expanded (86 PEs as opposed to 62). These
objectives remained unchanged until project closing.  Key actions, however, were
rescheduled on several occasions to take changing conditions into account:  (a)
implementation was interrupted for almost a year due to the civil war of 1994; (b) PEs
had been damaged or destroyed; (c) a majority of the labor force had been killed or had
fled the country; (d) the technical team lost all its members except the national
coordinator; and (e) the PE and privatization laws that were to serve as basis for the
reform program could not be passed and adopted.
5.    Achievement of Objectives.  Sector policy and institutional development
objectives were modest. The project was aimed at supporting the design and adoption of
legislation on public enterprises and a general privatization strategy. The PE law
prepared by the project team in conjunction with DEP staff was approved by the Council
of Government in July 1993, over two years behind schedule, but was rejected by the
Constitutional Court in December 1993 because some minor clauses did not conform
with the Arusha Peace Accord of August 1993. The PE law, subsequently amended, had
not been resubmitted to the National Assembly when the project closed in April 1996.
On the other hand, the privatization law which evolved from the original concept of a
privatization strategy, was passed in March 1996. The Bank found the text of the law ill-
conceived and non-supportive of the reform process. It did not define the basic principles
underlying the privatization process, nor the institutional and legal framework for
privatization. Institutional arrangements were awkward and could lead to internal
inconsistency and confusion. Overall sector administration and management of PEs
remained weak and uncoordinated throughout the life of the project. An inventory of
tangible achievements yields little; the one liquidation and four privatizations of small
enterprises without statutes have had practically no social or economic impact on the
Rwandese economy.
6.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. Several factors contributed to the lack of
success in project implementation. The most important one is rooted in politics and
caused by pervasive ethnic tension that divided the country and wrought havoc in all
areas of activity. Other factors that interfered in PERP implementation were technical.
First, the real status of the PE portfolio was not fully known during project preparation,
which led to incomplete information and initial emphasis on restructuring. Second,
because of scarce national expertise, the project spent substantial time at start-up on
staffing and training. Third, there was a lack of understanding of the need and objectives



- iii -
of the reform program by the public. Fourth, the project was placed under the purview of
the Minister of Finance but was constrained by lack of incentives, equipment, expertise
and autonomy. It might have been more effective had it been given more authority. In
the context of an explosive political situation, low national capacity, opposition by
affected PE managers and workers, the project did not benefit from an environment that
could bring it to successful completion.
7.    Project Sustainability. Achievements under the project are modest and their
sustainability is unlikely. The work completed by the project team can be found in the
data base on most PEs in the portfolio, progress reports, notes on meetings and
encounters with officials and PE managers, and some modest training to the national
technical assistance on the techniques of privatization. In using primarily local TA, the
project could have contributed to human resource development and expanding local
technical expertise, at least within the country, if not the administration; the progress
would therefore be modestly sustainable in relation to the resources used. Unfortunately,
most of the trained staff have either died or left the country. The data base on the target
PEs, however, still provides a good resource for any follow-up project.  This is
particularly useful as Rwanda's public and private sectors lost most of their pre-1994
records after the upheaval.
8.    Bank's Performance.  The Bank provided adequate financial and technical
support in preparing the project. It had accurately assessed the needs the project would
provide the Government. However, it could have been more flexible early on in the
privatization process when difficulties became already apparent As such, Bank staff were
in a position which they could do little to improve given the highly unfavorable political
events throughout implementation. The problem lay in reducing the risk incurred by the
Government to a politically acceptable level, while leaving it in a position to achieve a
successful privatization program, a difficult undertaking in the volatile Rwandese context.
Bank staff pulled together resources to help the Government during the critical post-war
time when all members of the project team had either been killed or fled the country
except one, and all project files destroyed. It was urgent to quickly reconstitute the team
and provide them with necessary tools to resume the work program. In that respect, the
project team worked painstakingly to complete a minimum action plan in a limited
timeframe. To help Govermnent officials make informed decisions on privatizations,
Bank staff organized in May 1996 a seminar to acquaint them with the objectives of a
privatization program and the benefits its successful implementation could bring.
9.    Borrower's Performance.  The Government's performance was satisfactory
during preparation in 1989 and 1990. Its decision to form three working groups to
analyze the legal and institutional framework, assess the economic and financial viability
of target enterprises, and analyze the impact of policies on the performance of PEs
indicated its commitment to reforms. Performance during implementation, however,
turned out to be poor. DEP staff's capacity and commitment did not come up to
expectations. Counterpart funds were not released on time. The Special Account was
misused resulting in temporary suspension and reimbursements. The Arusha Accord of



- iv-
1993 made it difficult for the PE law to be passed because of some minor inconsistencies
and thus, the reform program focusing on PE rehabilitation could not be implemented.
Outside the project, second tranche conditionality on the SAC relating to PE reform was
not met. The growing resistance to structural adjustment spilled over into the PE sector.
From mid-term review in May 1993 to project closing, the Government's initial
commitment to the PERP waned.  The passing of a privatization law that was
fundamentally unsatisfactory in fact led the Bank to conclude that no purpose would be
served by extending the closing date.
10.   Assessment of Outcome. Most of the agenda is still unfinished, as regards PE
reform, divestiture and training with a strategic focus. Based on the fact that: (a) the
institutional development objective of the project was only marginally achieved; and (b)
the activities planned, although largely carried out (financial and operational studies of
PEs, preparation of legal statutes for each enterprise depending on recommended actions),
did not succeed in cleaning up the portfolio, the project's outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
It must be recognized, however, that the project had made two important contributions:
(a) it had brought the PE issue to the forefront of the reform agenda, especially through
the May 1996 dissemination effort; and (b) it left behind a data base of information on
PEs, a non-negligible accomplishment given the country's devastation.
11.   Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned. The
key lesson derived from the PERP is that the decision to reform the public enterprise
sector is first and fundamentally political, regardless of the economic and financial
pressure that may have prompted consideration of the move. The 1994 war and the
political unrest that preceded and followed it, and resistance by interest groups in both the
public and private sectors, constituted the main reasons for project failure. This might
have been mitigated, had the passing and adoption of the PE law been required as an
upfront action, if not feasible under the PERP, then under the 1990 SAC, to show the
Government's commitment. The PERP's experience also highlights the fact that a
successful reform program depends heavily on the broader political economic context
within which it is carried out. To be effective, the project should have been executed in a
proper macro- and socio-economic environment and should have received widespread
political and social support.
12.   The PERP's experience gives some other lessons that can be found in projects of
the same nature. It highlights the need for preparing Government officials and national
key decision-makers involved in the PE reform process, and sensitizing the public at
large. Without this public information campaign and the widespread support, success is
improbable. The experience also indicates that for a project to be effective, a team must
be specifically established to deal with details of the various processes (restructuring,
privatization, liquidation); ministries are not normally geared to do so. Civil servants are
unable to devote their entire energies to the job. Finally, Government officials need to
receive adequate training in privatization to help them select consultants, supervise the
reform process and make appropriate decisions.



. v -
13.  In conclusion, despite efforts from some motivated Government officials, the
project technical team, and Bank staff involved in the project, the PERP has to be rated
unsatisfactory and indeed, in the circumstances, any other outcome was most unlikely.
However, achievements under the project can help underpin future reforms. The
Government is now aware of the issues it must address, and all the difficulties it must
face to implement a PE reform program. A data base on the portfolio has been
established that will help Government officials continue PERP's efforts, whether with the
assistance of the Bank or another donor. Successful PE reforms in Rwanda depend
largely on the active pursuit of a policy of national reconciliation and peace.



I
I .



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM PROJECT
(Credit 2113-RW)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    Rwanda is a small, resource-poor and landlocked country in Central Africa which
has suffered ethnic conflict for many years. Its population has been growing at an
average of 3 percent per annum since 1980, and its GDP per capita was estimated at
US$200 in 1993, among the lowest of the continent. Half of GDP comes from the
agricultural sector; coffee and tea make up 80-90 per cent of total exports. However, the
amount of fertile land is limited. The industrial sector is small, contributing only 17 per
cent to GPD. Manufacturing focuses mainly on the processing of agricultural products.
The Rwandese economy remains dependent on coffee/tea exports and foreign assistance.
In the 1960s and 1970s, Rwanda achieved sustained growth in per capita income thanks
to prudent economic management, increased agricultural output and generous external
assistance. Weak international prices since 1986 caused the economy to contract and per
capita GDP to decline. The time had come for the Government to face the issue of what
to do with the inefficient public enterprise sector to reduce its burden on the budget and
promote economic efficiency.
2.    In 1988, the Government officially requested assistance from IDA to undertake a
reform program in the PE sector but stressed that it was still seeking internal consensus
on macroeconomic adjustment. The PERP was a credit of US$4.9 million granted to this
effect in March 1990. It was envisaged that it would become effective in June of the
same year. However, effectiveness came about eight months later as a result of delays in
expected measures that were to be put in place. The project adopted a comprehensive
approach to improve the institutional and legal framework affecting all public enterprises
and sought to strengthen measures being taken by other IDA projects to improve the
operations of key public enterprises in various sectors such as education, energy,
infrastructure, and telecommunications.
3.    At about the same time, the Government embarked on a reform program
supported by an IDA structural adjustment credit (SAC), approved in FY91, and a
Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement with the IMF. The Government implemented
most of the agreed structural reforms, but the macroeconomic framework was thrown off
course due to civil conflict in 1991, causing unsustainable fiscal deficits occasioned by
increased military outlays. The Arusha Peace Accord in August 1993 temporarily ended



Rwanda Public Enterprise Reform Proiect  - 2 -    Implementation Completion Report
most of the fighting, but the civil war of April 1994 was devastating and severely affected
short-term economic prospects, although the new Government continued to endorse the
reform program.
1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
4.    As stated in the SAR, the project aimed at helping the Government to: (a) redefine
its role in the PE sector and formulate principles for future interventions in new
enterprises; (b) improve the institutional and legal framework for PEs; (c) increase the
efficiency of the sector through rehabilitation of those enterprises that could be made
economically viable, divestiture of those which could be privatized, and liquidation of
non-viable ones; and (d) develop national capacity to design, implement and monitor PE
reforms. These objectives were relevant as the PERP was seen as an instrument for
improving resource allocation within the economy through a program of restructuring and
privatization. The goals of the PERP were expressed in specific monitorable measures
linked to a timetable. The prevailing mood within the Government and the Bank was to
restructure enterprises within the public sector.
5.    The PERP financed the following components:  (a) technical assistance and
equipment to: (i) revise public enterprise legislation; (ii) help develop and implement
restructuring plans for viable enterprises; (iii) assist in the liquidation of non-viable
enterprises and in the design and implementation of the Government's privatization
strategy; (iv) strengthen the Finance Ministry which is responsible for overall supervision
of PE performance; and (b) training of PE managers, Finance Ministry staff and other
ministries' staff involved in PE reform.
6.    The project, as designed, appeared justified.   However, slow  project
implementation from the beginning pointed to some shortcomings. First, the two
preconditions for effective and comprehensive PE reform: (a) the adoption of a new legal
framework for PEs and (b) the approval by the Government of a detailed privatization
strategy suffered significant technical delays. Second, because the monitoring of PEs was
weak, it was not possible to obtain sufficient detailed knowledge of their management,
financial and technical state during preparation. This led to the establishment of an action
plan that was not easily implementable.  Third, in the absence of a widespread
information campaign that would point out the advantages of reforming the PEs as a
solution to some of the pressing financial problems of the country, there was little way to
mitigate resistance from public and private interest groups.
7.    In early 1993, three years after Board approval, the institutional and legal
framework had not been put in place. At that time, the Bank considered cancellation of
the credit because of this fundamental stumbling block. It eventually opted instead for a
reorientation of the project. The reasons underlying this decision were as follows: since
1990, the Government had instituted a structural adjustment program and had brought
about fundamental changes in its development strategy, which included promoting the



Rwanda Public Enterprise Reform Proiect  - 3 -   Implementation Completion Report
private sector and disengagement. It was therefore agreed with the Government that the
project would maintain its original objectives but would be reoriented to reflect the
emphasis on privatization, as opposed to restructuring, taking into account the shortage of
public funds and current national priorities. An exhaustive study accounted for 86 PEs
(compared to 62 during project preparation), 60 of which were recommended for
privatization or liquidation within five years. The project objectives became even more
relevant after April 1994, because in the aftermath of the war, many PEs had stopped
their activities. Restarting them would have required substantial funds which were not
available.
2. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    Major objectives of the PERP have not been achieved. At project closing, the role
of the Government in the public enterprise sector had not been clearly established. The
PE law had not been passed, while the privatization law was found to be ill-conceived
and non-supportive of the reform process. The portfolio had further deteriorated without
any meaningful reorganization. Training for DEP staff and PE managers was largely
neglected.
9.    Two reasons explain the slow progress.  First and most importantly, the
Government's political readiness for privatization was weak, which led to slippage in the
passing and adoption of the two basic laws. Second, before as after the 1994 events,
there existed strong opposition from interest groups, while supporters of reforms were in
a minority.
Institutional and Legal Framework
10.   The draft PE law, prepared by the project team, was discussed extensively and
eventually passed by the National Development Council in July 1993. It was, however,
rejected by the Constitutional Court in December 1993 for lack of consistency of some
minor clauses with the Arusha Peace Accord of August 1993. It was the Accord that
regulated legislation during the transitional period. The clause in the PE law on the
nomination of managers of PEs and its council of administration was found inconsistent
with the Arusha Accord and required amendment. It was simply a minor amendment that
did not affect in any way the substance of the law. However, at project closing, the
amended law had not yet been submitted to the transitional National Assembly.
Adoption of this basic legal text was key to project progress.
11.   The privatization strategy, also prepared by the project team before the war of
1994 and adjusted in February 1995 to reflect the post-war conditions, had been discussed
in the Council of Government. The strategy clearly defined the decision of the
Government to withdraw from the business sphere, identified the institutions that would
be responsible for implementing the privatization process, and described the mechanisms
to be used. The Government had wished to make it a law which would govern all



Rwanda Public Enterprise Reform Project  - 4 -    Implementation Completion Report
privatization transactions.  The transitional National Assembly had shortened and
amended the proposed law and passed it in December 1995. The text, which was
modified without consultation with the project team, was approved by the Constitutional
Court and promulgated in March 1996.
12.   The Bank found the privatization law ill-suited to the reform process. It did not
define the basic principles underlying the privatization process nor the institutional and
legal framework for privatization and was inconsistent in its institutional arrangements.
While the Finance Ministry was in charge of PE privatization, it would not maintain its
financial supervisory role. The law created a National Privatization Committee to be
established by Presidential Decree, but did not determine its scope of action. The Bank,
which had not been consulted on the text of the amended law, had advised the
Government to supplement it with a Policy on National Privatization. This document
would clearly identify the agencies to be responsible for the privatization process, for
studies, and for implementation.  It would also specify the acceptable forms of
privatization (complete or partial divestiture, management contracting, leasing, or
concession), procedures on selection of bids, control measures and reporting requirements
for the above agencies. Adoption of an appropriate privatization law is essential to start
the privatization process and the law must be clear and detailed enough to avoid
misunderstandings.
The PE Reform Program
13.   At the start of implementation, there was no clear direction on how to approach
the portfolio, either by complexity of cases or by size of enterprise. It was proposed that
the project team would address as a priority, cases of enterprises with few problems and
where only simple legal adjustments were required, that is, enterprises where the
Government held an equity share and could easily withdraw by simple ministerial decree
to sell its shares. PEs were evaluated and classified for either liquidation, partial or
complete divestiture, management contracting, or restructuring. An action plan was then
proposed for each PE that was to be implemented by DEP staff with the assistance of the
project team.
14.   On the eve of the April 1994 events, major achievements of the project were as
follows: divestiture of Sonatubes in December 1992 (sale of Government shares);
financial rehabilitation and divestiture of Trafipro (subsequently finalized in early 1995);
ongoing complete divestiture of Perimetre rizicole de Butare; sale of a portion of the
assets of Imprimerie Nationale and Papeteries du Rwanda; start of the process of
reimbursing depositors at Caisse d'Epargne du Rwanda; and start of the process of sale of
Government's share of equity in Magerwa, Rwantexco, Petrowanda, Stir, Boucherie de
Kigali, C.R.H.T., Sonarwa, and Rwandex.
15.  In the aftermath of the 1994 events, those among the above activities that had not
been finalized had to be included in a new action plan. Enterprises required updating of
their financial and operational status due to the destruction in material and human



Rwanda Public Enterprise Reform Project  - 5 -      Implementation Completion Report
resources. A large numnber of enterprises had not resumed normal operations, or could
not justify their existence under current circumstances. In any case, an important loss of
human resources and the desolate state of public finances did not allow the Government
to consider any important restructuring.  Successive supervision missions in 1995
realistically established a minimum program to suit the prevailing conditions and
identified enterprises that could be liquidated or privatized in a short time, that is by
simple ministerial decrees. As a result of the work of the reconstituted dynamic team of
experts, a total of 81 PEs had been reassessed at project closing with a recommended plan
of action for each.  Concrete achievements were, however, modest:  divestiture of
Trafipro finalized in early 1995; partial divestiture of OVAPAM in June 1995;
privatization of Projet Chaux in April 1996; and liquidation of Rwanda Travel Services
which had not resumed its operations after April 1994.
Support to the Directorate of Public Enterprises
16.   Project support to the Directorate of Public Enterprises did not achieve its
intended objective. It was planned that foreign and local technical assistance would
strengthen DEP staff technical capacity in implementing the policy changes and
enterprise restructuring program. The DEP was staffed with a Director, two division
chiefs and six technicians. It was quickly recognized that results did not materialize as
anticipated for the following reasons: (a) Government officials could not devote all their
time and energies to the project; (b) they were not motivated due to large discrepancies
between their salaries and those of members in the project team; and (c) the DEP did not
have direct access to the Minister of Finance, which delayed actions. Following the mid-
term review, DEP staff was reduced to one division chief and four technicians and their
responsibilities limited to restructuring public offices and national companies, monitoring
their financial status, keeping statistics and supervising the implementation of
performance contracts. As three-quarters of the portfolio had been slated for privatization
or liquidation, the lion's share of the work would be done by the project team of experts.
DEP was further marginalized after the war of 1994 when the priority of the project team
was to rehabilitate the portfolio as quickly as possible.
17.   It was intended that a training program be set up for DEP staff and PE managers
to help them implement and monitor efficiently reforms in the PE sector. One such
program was indeed submitted to the Bank in June 1993 for approval. However, it was
never implemented due to heavy loss of DEP staff as a result of the 1994 war. Whatever
training done (organization, computer use, accounting and auditing, privatization
techniques) was on-the-job and informal for the benefit of national project staff only.
3. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
18.   The main obstacle to implementing the PE reform program was political. The PE
and privatization laws were held up by protracted debates in the National Assembly.
Both pre- and post-1994 governments were seriously constrained by political



Rwanda Public Enterprise Reform Project  - 6 -     Implementation Completion Report
considerations. The privatization and liquidation of enterprises without clear statute was
slow to materialize. Delays in implementing key PE reforms were caused foremost by
the debilitating interplay of power and interests. The anti-reform movement was further
fueled by the failure of the Government to meet most conditionality for the SAC's second
tranche release.
19.   A second cause for poor project progress was the limited capacity of DEP staff
(para. 16) which proved to be weaker than evaluated at appraisal. The issue had been
correctly addressed and the problem solved when their role was reduced at mid-term
review and the project placed closer to the Finance Minister, and the project team was
authorized to have direct access to the latter.
20.   Other factors that affected PERP's implementation were technical. First, project
effectiveness had been delayed by the slowness in staffing the DEP with qualified people,
which pushed back actual implementation by 8 months. Second, incomplete information
on the PE portfolio led to the adoption of an inappropriate action plan for many
enterprises. This was remedied two years later by a redirection of the project. The third
reason related to the problem of scarce national expertise: the project team had not been
adequately staffed until early 1994. The war in the spring of the same year caused team
breakdown due to either death or departure from the country. A new team was
constituted and mandated to complete priority action plans in response to the distressed
state of Government finances but this team which was energetic and efficient could only
complete the privatization or closing of a few small enterprises.
4. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.   The project as completed represents the beginning of the reorganization of the PE
sector. A PE law had been drafted and ready for adoption; an appropriate draft
privatization law had been submitted to Government; a data base on 85 percent of
existing PEs had been handed over to the Finance Ministry as well as working notes and
records of communications between the project team and each PE. This information can
be of use in future PE reform projects. In addition, specialized skills in auditing,
financial analysis, marketing, and law in the area of privatization have been transferred to
the national experts in the project team. In that small respect, the project helped build
qualified national capacity with privatization skills that can be useful in future
privatization efforts.
5. BANK PERFORMANCE
22.   Bank's performance in terms of support to the Borrower under this project was
satisfactory. During preparation stage, the Bank had made an accurate assessment of the
technical, financial, and institutional needs for the country. Design was standard for
similar kinds of projects elsewhere. It had accurately assessed the risks involved, namely



Rwanda Public Enterprise Reform Project  - 7 -   Implementation Completion Report
resistance from interest groups within the Government and affected enterprises, and slow
project progress due to inability of the Government to carry out the policy reform
package. Its evaluation of the political risks had been correct but underestimated. In the
volatile context of Rwanda, the risks that the Government ran in implementing the reform
program were high. The courageous actions of a few Government officials were not
enough to remove the hurdles that were placed on the project's path. Were the project
team given more authority, it could have managed the difficult task. In retrospect, two
alternate actions could have steered the project on a more successful course. First, to
avoid all the delays prompted by the political powerplay, the Bank could have made the
adoption of the PE law a condition under the SAC which should have moved ahead of the
PERP. Second, were the project more suitably designed and the Bank more flexible in
the early stage of project implementation, the privatization program could have avoided a
lot of resistance and won over national support.
23.   There were 7 PERP supervision missions to Rwanda from project effectiveness in
February 1991 to project closing in April 1996, two assessment missions in 1994 by a
staff other than the Task Manager and one consultant following the war of 1994, and a
privatization seminar conducted by Bank staff in May 1996. The frequency and number
of supervision missions was under the norm of one mission every six months. The
scarcity of supervision missions, especially in 1991 and 1992, was due to a number of
reasons, among which were the volatile political events and the transfer of the project to a
new task manager. Although there were few field missions during that period, the project
continued to be supervised from headquarters with the undertaking of critical studies, the
hiring of key consultants and discussions on PE reform with Rwandese officials who
were in Washington for the SAC. The civil war in early 1994 resulted understandably in
no missions that year.
6. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.   During preparation, the Government's performance was satisfactory. It indicated
its firm decision to initiate the PE reform program by establishing three working groups
to examine the impact of macroeconomic policies on the financial and economic
performance of the PE sector, to propose improvements in the legal and institutional
framework governing PEs and to conduct diagnostic studies on selected PEs which
suggest potential rehabilitation or privatization plans.  The pre-1994 government
supported the PE reform program through a number of actions: (a) the SAC; (b) the
policy of private sector development; (c) the strategy for development of the agricultural
sector; and (d) the decision to privatize management of some important PEs, such as
Rwandatel and Electrogaz.
25.  Implementation, however, was highly unsatisfactory. This was due to political
difficulties, repercussions from the armed internal conflict in 1993, procrastination in
making key decisions, poor project management, insufficient dedication to the project by
officials at the DEP, slow and cumbersome procurement procedures, and misuse of



Rwanda Public Enterprise Reform Project  - 8 -      Implementation Completion Report
special account funds caused either by delays in releasing counterpart funds or by
violation of Bank disbursement procedures. The inability of the Government to meet
second tranche conditionalities of the SAC in 1993 and the outbreak of the civil war in
April 1994 further compromised project implementation. By 1994, out of four covenants
agreed in the legal documents, only two had been fulfilled, yet either with delays (audits)
or unsatisfactorily (privatization law). The Government's main weakness was failure to
mobilize political and popular support for PE reforms.
The Project Team
26.   Initially, the core project team  was staffed  by  an expatriate financial
analyst/economist who also acted as advisor to the Director of the DEP, an expatriate
expert in privatization, an economist, a training expert, a lawyer and an accountant. At
mid-tern review, when the project shifted focus to privatization and liquidation, the
above consultant resources were found to be no longer sufficient to undertake the expert-
intensive work program. The number of consultants in the team thus increased from six
to ten, seven of whom were national experts. The new positions were the national
coordinator, an additional lawyer, a second financial analyst, and an archivist. The team
worked effectively for less than a year when the war broke out. In the aftermath of the
war, another team had to be quickly constituted with the only surviving member of the
former team of national experts and new members. It undertook the painstaking task of
rebuilding the project files after they were destroyed and completed a minimum work
program.
7. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.   Measured against the project's stated objectives, the outcome of PERP is rated as
unsatisfactory. Although there was an apparent will to reform the PE sector, key
Rwandese decision-makers did not seem to be able to move decisively past the stage of
decision to implementation of actual actions. The institutional development impact is
rated as modest. No sustainability is expected. Two major reasons are advanced for the
unsatisfactory rating. First, the institutional and legal framework outcome fell short of
initial program objectives. Second, the restructuring of PERP turned out to be short-lived
due to the outbreak of the civil war.
8. FUTURE OPERATIONS
28.   Given the continued poor financial performance of the PE sector, the Government
will need a divestiture program grounded in legal and political acceptance. Before the
state withdraws from productive and commercial sectors (particularly in the areas of
energy, transportation and telecommunications) and allows the private sector to take over
these activities, a reformulation of its policy and regulations will be required after broad-
based political support is obtained.  A mechanism  that provides clear guidelines,



Rwanda Public Enterprise Reform Project  - 9 -    Implementation Completion Report
transparency, accountability, an adequate decision-making process, and incentives should
support this program.
29.   As a first step, the Government should pass an appropriate PE law and adopt a
clear privatization strategy. The recommended action plans prepared for each enterprise
will then serve as basis for the next stage, either liquidation, privatization (of equity or
management) or restructuring.  Following negotiations, financial restructuring and
management privatization or a concession of such enterprises as Electrogaz and
Rwandatel could be completed.
30.   With respect to follow-up to the PERP, the key issue is the need for the
Government to achieve an enabling political environment for reform and obtain a
consensus within the country. Any Bank assistance to reform the sector will be difficult
to implement if those conditions were not present.
9. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
31.   From the PERP's shortcomings, the following lessons can be learned:
(a)   The key lesson is that the decision to embark on a PE reform program is
based as much on political factors as on financial and economic
considerations. In the Rwanda case, the political issue totally dominated
the picture. Government commitment is necessary, but political consensus
is an even more important element. Thus, even if he had been able to do
it, the Minister of Finance did not want to invoke the emergency procedure
of a Presidential Decree to approve the two PE legal texts in 1996. He
indicated that only a clear mandate given by the National Assembly could
enable him to carry out the divestiture process quickly and successfully.
The adoption of an appropriate PE law should have preceded the
operation.
(b)   Implementation of the PERP clearly demonstrates that for a PE reform
program to be successful, it is necessary to mobilize support early on from
Government officials and the public. Seminars can be organized for the
benefit of the former and an information campaign for the latter. A full
understanding of what is involved in privatization will take time on the
part of Government officials, but the effort will be repaid if it enables the
process to go smoothly later. On the other hand, the general public should
be informed of the government's PE reform plans as soon as they are
reasonably well formulated.
(c)   The PERP's experience highlights the need for a special high-caliber team
to be in charge of the various PE reform processes (liquidation,
privatization, restructuring). The team should be staffed by qualified



Rwanda Public Enterprise Reform Project  - 10 -         Implementation Completion Report
personnel experienced in privatization and remain independent in its
technical dealings with concerned technical ministries and PEs.
(d)    Special training is needed for the PE reform program to be implemented
successfully. Privatization is not just a matter of offering a PE for sale; it
involves questions such as valuation, preparation of the offering, decisions
on who should be allowed to bid, and negotiation for final disposal. A
special training program should be therefore prepared and made a point of
priority in project implementation.



PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Studies Included in Project
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 10:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11:   Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIX:
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives    Substantial   Partial   Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                                   X
Sector policies                                  X
Financial objectives                             X
Institutional development             X
Physical objectives                                            X
Poverty reduction                                              X
Gender issues                                                  X
Other social objectives                                        X
Environment objectives                                         X
Public sector management                         X
Private sector development                       X
Other                                                          X
B. Proiect sustainability           Likely        Unlikely       Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance                 Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactorv    Deficient
Identification                               X
Preparation assistance                       X
Appraisal                                    X
Supervision                                  X
D. Borrower performance             Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                  X
Implementation                                              X
Covenant compliance                                         X
E. Assessment of outcome        Highly                                   Highly
Satisfactory  Satisfactory Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
x



Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                        Purpose                       Year of        Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Technical Assistance for    Reinforce controls over public finance by     1985       Completed
the Improvement of Public  improving procedures for budget preparation
Finance Management        and execution (including financial
Project                   management of the parastatal sector) and
(Cr. 1565-RW)             strengthening Government capabilities for
economic policy making.
Third Education Project    Improve the quality and efficiency of the      1986       Completed
(Cr. 1683-RW)             primary and post-primary education system by
funding long-term technical assistance and
supplies.
Following Operations
Transport Sector Project    Streamline the regulatory environment, ensure  1990      Active
(Cr. 2136-RW)             regular financing of sector expenditures,
reclassify the road network, and improve
institutional arrangements and responsibilities
in the sector.
First Structural Adjustment  Stabilize the economy, improve its           1991       Completed
Credit                    competitiveness, create an incentive
(Cr. 2271 -RW)            framework for the efficient allocation of
resources, lay the foundation for export-led
growth.
Second Communications    Support government efforts to restructure the    1991       Active
Project                   sector through (a) the creation of two
(Cr. 2189-RW)             autonomous institutions for the
telecommunication and postal sectors; and (b)
financing of priority investments.
Energy Sector             Promote rational energy policies, strengthen    1993       Active
Rehabilitation Project    the institutional regulatory and policy
(Cr. 2456-RW)             environment, including restructuring of the
Rwandese utility company to permit
contracting out its operations to a private
operator and establish the basis for efficient
utilization of Rwanda's energy resources,
while minimizing adverse environmental
implications.
Emergency Recovery        Support the Government in restoring key         1995       Active
Credit                    economic and social services, rebuilding the
(Cr. 2678-RW)             institutional capacity necessary for sustainable
economic recovery and designing a coherent
economic policy framework.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification                  November 1987         November 1987
Preparation                                           June 1989
Appraisal                       June 12, 1989         June 16 - July 7, 1989
Negotiations                    February 7, 1990      February 7 - 13, 1990
Board approval                  March 27, 1990        March 27, 1990
Signing                                               May 7, 1990
Effectiveness                   June 30, 1990         February 28, 1991
Project completion report       December 1996         December 31, 1996
Credit closing                  December 31, 1994   April 15, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
| FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94    FY95        FY96
Appraisal Estimate           1.07     2.30      3.36      4.31      4.40       4.40
Actual                       0.10     0.44       1.11      1.54     2.24       2.62
Actual as % of Estimate     9.34%    19.13%    33.03%    35.73%    50.9%      59.5%
Date of Final Disbursement                         ..___I -_ _  I_ I _ _ _   07/26/1996
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key implementation indicators in SAR            Estimated                Actual
1. Legal and institutional framework: Revision of   March 31, 1991  Approved in July 1993
legislation on public enterprises                                   by the National
Development Council,
rejected by the
Constitutional Court in
December 1993
because some minor
clauses did not conform
with the Arusha
agreement of August
1993. Amended draft
law has not been
submitted to the
National Assembly as
of end April 1996.
2. General privatization strategy            March 31, 1991         The proposed strategy
as prepared by the
PERP technical team
had been shortened,
modified and passed by
the National Assembly



in December 1995,
approved by the
Constitutional Court
and promulgated in
March 1996. However,
its content was not
acceptable to IDA.
3. Rwandese Republic's divestiture:            June 30, 1991           Focus and timetable of
-   Imprimerie Nationale du Rwanda                                   action plan for PEs
-   STIR                                                             were modified at mid-
-  RWANTEXCO                                                         term review (May
-  Forge Gouvemementale                                              1993), and twice after
-   Perimetres rizicoles                                             the war of April 1994
-   Papeteries du Rwanda                                             (in July 1995 and
-  ORTPN (Hotel activity)                                            November 1995).
-   OVAPAM                                                           June 1995
-  SONATUBES                                                         December 1992
4. Rehabilitation and/or restructuring of:
-  Maiserie de Mukamira                      October 31, 1991
-  OVIBAR
-   ORTPN (Tourism and National Parks
activities)
-   Regie des Aeroports
-   BUNEP
-  Electrogaz
-   Caisse Sociale du Rwanda
-   Sucrerie Rwandaise
5. Diagnostic studies for:
-  Caisse hypothecaire du Rwanda             June 30, 1992
-  Air Rwanda
-   REDEMI
- ONATRACOM
- OCIR-The
-  OCIR-Cafe
-   OPROVIA
-   TRAFIPRO
- SONARWA
-   SOMITRAP
-   SONAFRUITS
- OPYRWA
-   Regie de l'imprimerie scolaire
- MAGERWA
-   SODEPARAL
- SORWAL
-  Caisse d'epargne du Rwanda
-   Regie apicole
-   Cimenterie
-   Laiteries
-   Petrorwanda
- RWANDEX



- BRD
6. Contract-plans for enterprises to be rehabilitated
among those listed in para 5. above
May 31, 1993
7. Privatization or liquidation strategies for
enterprises to be privatized or liquidated among
those listed in para. 5 above.                 January 31, 1993
II. Modified indicators introduced at mid-term                        Diagnostic studies and
review (July 1993)                                                    action plans for targeted
enterprise were being
1. Rwandese Republic's divestiture:                                   prepared when the war
-  Forge gouvernementale                    August 1993             of April 1994 erupted.
-  Papeteries du Rwanda                     July 1993
-   Pecherie de Kamembe                      October 1993
-   Pecherie d'Hiema                         October 1993
-   Pecherie du Kivu                         October 1993
-  Cie Rwandaise d'h6tels et tourisme CRHT    February 1994
-   Rwanda Travel Services                   February 1994
-  Caisse d'epargne du Rwanda                September 1994
-   Societe de promotion h6teliere SOPROTEL   December 1994         After April 1994
-   Societe des transports internationaux    June 1994
routiers STIR
-  Boucherie charcuterie de Kigali          March 1994
-  Office de valorisation de la Banande du   December 1994
Rwanda
-  Perimetre Rizicole de Butare              February 1995
-  Air Rwanda                                March 1995
-   SOPAB                                    April 1995
-   BACAR                                    May 1994
-   Banque de Kigali                         May 1994
-   Banque Commerciale du Rwanda             May 1994
-  TRAFIPRO                                  July 1994
-   SORWAL                                  April 1994
-   Imprimerie Nationale du Rwanda           June 1994
-  RWANDATEL                                August 1994
-  BUNEP                                     September 1994
-   Office des Pyretres du Rwanda            October 1994
-   RWANTEXCO                                May 1994
-  Regie Sucrerie de Kabuye                  February 1995
-  Magasins generaux du Rwanda              November 1994
-  Petrorwanda                               February 1995
-  ETIRU                                     March 1995
-   Laiterie de Gishwati                    June 1995
-  Laiterie de Nyabisindu                    June 1995
-   OCIR                                     March 1997
-   REDEMI                                   October 1995
-  OCIR Cafe                                January 1998
-  Abattoirs de Kigali                      January 1996
-  APNI                                      August 1995
-  Couvoir National                          October 1995
2. Privatization of management:



-  ORTPN (Societe nationale)               July 1994
-  Electrogaz (Societe nationale)          March 1995
-  Regie des aeroports (Societe nationale)  December 1994
-  Onatracom (Societe nationale)           March 1995
-  Imprimerie scolaire (Societe nationale)  June 1995
-  Office pharmaceutique (Societe nationale)   June 1995
-  OCIR The (ASBL)                         March 1997
-  Fonds special de garantie (Societe      September 1995
nationale)                             December 1995
-  Te1lvision du Rwanda (Societe nationale)    October 1995
-  Fonds forestier national (Societe nationale)   November 1995
-  Caisse sociale du Rwanda (Societe       January 1996
nationale)
3. Privatizations to be started after 1995
-  Bibliotheque nationale
-  Fond de garantie des assurances
-  Institut des sciences agronomiques
- Office national des posocietes
-  Office produits animaux vivriers
-  Alirwanda
-  Amirwanda
-  Banque regionale de developpement
-  Bralirwa
-  CID
-  Caisse hypothecaire du Rwanda
-  Chillington
-  Cimerwa
-  Ingoboka
-  Labophar
-  Maiserie
-  Office du tourisme
-  Oprovia
-  Ovapam
-  Projet riz Bugarama
-  Rwandex
-  Sodeparal
-  Sonafruit
-  Sonarwa
-  Soproriz
-  Sorwathe
-  Tabarwanda
-  Zaire Nil
111. Modified indicators introduced in July 1995                   As certainty for the
1. Privatization of equity or of management:                       success of program
-  Electrogaz                              Before end December   implementation faded,
-  Rwandatel                               1995                   indicators were
-  Perimetre rizicole de Butare                                  modified at each Bank
-  Regie sucriere de Kigali                                      supervision mission to
adjust to reality.
2. Liquidation:
-  Caisse d'epargne du Rwanda



- Papeteries du Rwanda
- Ranch de Gako
- Centre national du petit elevage
- Pecherie de Kigembe
- Pcherie du lac Kivu
- Forge gouvernementale de Nyabisindu
3. Government of Rwanda's divestiture or
liquidation:
-  Rwanda travel services                                         Liquidated
-  Cooperative Trafipro                                          Divested in early 1995
- Alirwanda
- Rwantexco
- Sonarwa
- C.R.H.T.
- Magerwa
- Petrorwanda
- Boucherie charcuterie de Kigali
IV. Modified indicators introduced in November
1995
1. Liquidation of enterprises without legal statute:  Before end December   Not started at project
-  Ranch de Gako                           1995                   closing.
- Centre national du petit elevage
- Pecheries de Kigembe
- Pecherie du Lac Kivu
2. Clear position of the Government stated on:  Before end December   Contracting of
-  Electrogaz                              1995                  management not
-  Rwandatel                                                      finalized yet at project
-  Regie sucriere de Kigali                                       closing in April 1996.
- Boucherie charcuterie de Kigali
- Cimenterie du Rwanda
- Air Rwanda
- Caisse d'epargne du Rwanda
-  Papeteries du Rwanda
- STIR
-  Imprimerie nationale
- Petrorwanda
- Fonds special de garantie
- Caisse hypothecaire du Rwanda
- BUNEP
*    C.I.D.
*Except where stated, proposed action plan for each enterprise was not implemented.



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose            Status             Impact of Study
PE Law                To define the legal     Completed    Approved by Council of Ministers
framework for PEs'                  in July 1993 and submitted to
operations.                          Parliament.
CER                   Operational and         Completed    Recommended for liquidation
financial audit
Privatization Strategy    To design a general  Completed    Submitted to Parliament who
strategy for                         shortened and modified it. New
privatization                        text was unacceptable.
Mid-Term Review       Project evaluation      Completed    Led to restructuring of project in
report                               July 1993.
Electrogaz            Viability study and     Completed    Recommended for privatization of
preparation of bidding               management
documents for the
privatization of
management                         _
1991, 1992, 1993,     Audit reports           Completed    Financial covenants fulfilled.
1994, 1995 Project
Audits
INR                   Diagnostic study        Completed    Recommended for liquidation.
RAR                   Diagnostic study        Completed    Recommended for change in
statute (national society)
Rwandatel             Diagnostic study        Completed    Recommended for privatization of
management.
Fonds routier national   Diagnostic study     Completed    Recommended for privatization of
_______________   _management.
FOSOC                 Diagnostic study        Completed    Recommended for restructuring
STIR                  Financial and           Completed    Recommended for liquidation
organizational audit
Rice sector           Diagnostic study        Completed    Recommended for privatization
BRD                   Operational study       Completed    Recommended for divestiture
INR                   1989 and 1990 audits   Incomplete    Auditing firm went bankrupt.
Recommended for liquidation.
FORGE                 Valuation study         Completed    Recommended for liquidation
PRB                   Diagnostic study        Completed    Recommended for divestiture
SORWAL                Valuation study       Not started as
of April 1994
REDEMI                Valuation study       Consultant
selection
ongoing in
April 1994
FGA                   Audit report          Same as above
DEP Training          Training program for    Completed   Implementation interrupted by war
staff of the Directorate             of 1994.
of Public Enterprises
ORTPN                 Valuation study       TORs
submitted to
officials for
approval in
April 1994



RSK                   Financial audit          Financed by
CFD
ORINFOR               Marketing study         Not started as
of April 1994
PETRORWANDA           Valuation study         Ongoing as of
April 1994
STIR                  Valuation study        Same as above
OCIR Cafe             Diagnostic study       Same as above
SONAFRUITS            Diagnostic study        Not started as
of April 1994
Fonds Forestier       Restructuring study     Ongoing as of
National                                       April 1994
Laboratoires          Diagnostic study       Same as above
Veterinaires
Ponts et Chaussdes    Restructuring study    Same as above
IHEMA                 Privatization study     Not started as
of April 1994
The above studies were either completed, ongoing or not yet started as of April 1994. Those completed
were updated by the reconstituted project team from May 1995 to April 1996, while diagnostic studies on
remaining PEs were completed, constituting a data base on 81 PEs.
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
(US$ thousand)                  (US$ thousand)
Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign      Total
costs     costs                 costs      costs
Long-term consulting services        790       1,260     2,050           -     1,567      1,567
Equipment                               -        90         90         10        292        302
Operating costs                      300        240        540        138         15        153
Short-term consulting services       255        730        985          -        578        578
Training                             185         90        275          -         15         15
Refinancing of PPF                    60        440        500          -          I          I
Contingencies                        170        320        490          -
Total                               1,760     3,170      4,930        148      2,468      2,616
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate '(US$ thousand)    Actual/latest estimate (US$ thousand)
Source           Local costs   Foreign      Total    Local costs   Foreign       Total
costs                               costs
IDA                            432       4,008       4,440          138       2,462       2,600
Government                     250         240         490           15           I          ] 6
Total                          682       4,248        4,930         153       2,463       2,616
1US$ estimate at appraisal.
2 Actual costs in US$.



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-   Section    Cove-      Present    Original      Description of covenant            Comments
ment              nant type    status    fulfillment
date
Credit      3.04    Manage-      Not       07/31/95   Borrower to bring to the point   The Government did not take
ment    Complied                of sale or to the point of   position on the situation of the
aspects     with                 executing management         main PEs.
contracts respectively at least
25 enterprises from amongst
those listed in paragraph a) of
Schedule 6 and 5 enterprises
from amongst listed in
paragraph b) of Schedule 6.
Credit    4.01(b)  Accounts  Complied  06/30/93       Borrower to have the project    Fulfilled. Completed at end
/Audits   with after  06/30/94   accounts, including          April 1996 due to the fact that
delay    06/30/95    disbursements against        most project files had been
06/30/96    statements of expenditure    destroyed by the war.
(SOEs) and the special account,
audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable
to IDA, no later than six
months after the end of the
fiscal year.
Credit    Sched-    Manage-      Not       03/31/91    Borrower to adopt legislation    The PE law was passed by the
ule 5       ment    complied                on public enterprises.       The National Assembly in July
aspects     with                                              1993. but was not ratified by
the Constitutional Court in
December 1993 due to minor
inconsistencies with the Arusha
Agreement of August 1993.
The amended law was not
submitted to The National
Assembly as of project closing.
Credit    Sched-    Manage-  Complied    02/28/91   Borrower to have the Council   The privatization strategy
ule 5       ment    with after              of Government adopt the      passed by The National
aspects    delay                 general privatization strategy.   Assembly in December 1995,
ratified by the Constitutional
Court and promulgated in
March 1996 was not
satisfactory to the Bank.



Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title     Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OP 12.20                    In conformity with OP 12.20, para. 7 "The Bank may
Use of Special Account       withhold replenishment of the SA if ineligible
expenditures are financed from the SA or if the SA
audit is overdue." Because of delays in payment of
counterpart funds to the project account in 1993, the
project team had to use funds from the special account
to cover this portion. The practice was not acceptable
to the Bank and resulted in a temporary suspension of
this account until the ineligible amounts had been
reimbursed.
10: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle             Actual
Weeks           US$
Preparation to appraisal        4.27           8,919
Appraisal to Board             30.03          55,003
Supervision                    52.85         113,881
Completion                      7.10          12,500
Total                          94.25         190,303



Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Missions
Performance
Rating
Stage of    Month/    No. of    Days          Specialized    Imple-   Deve-        Types of
Project Cycle    Year    Persons       in       Staff Skills    ment-  lopme         Problems
Field     Represented      ation     nt
Appraisal -    06/89          4        70     Sr. Operations
Board                                         Officer
Private Sector
Development
Specialist
Lawyer
Consultant
Board -+       03/90-         - 
Effectiveness   02/91
Supervision    11/91          1        *      Industrial          *        *
Economist
07/92         1         *      Industrial          2        2
Economist
05/93         2         14    Lawyer               2        2     Ineffectiveness
Industrial                         of the
Economist                          Directorate of
Public
l ______________           __________                           ________  ________  Enterprises.
10/93         3         6     Industrial           2        2     Delays in
Economist                           adopting the PE
Financial                          law and the
Analyst                             privatization
Transport                           strategy
i _____________I  Specialist
02/95         3         8      Economist           U        U      Project
Financial                          implementa-
Analyst                            tion was
PE Specialist                       interrupted by
the civil war of
April 1994.
06/95         1         16    Economist            U        U
11/95         1         7     Economist           U         S     Progress was
impeded by the
inability of
Government to
have the PE law
passed and an
appropriate
privatization
strategy
* Data not available
Ratings:
I - Insignificant problems.
2 - Moderate problems.
3 - Major problems; appropriate actions being taken.
4 - Major problems; not being addressed adequately.
S - Satisfactory.
U - Unsatisfactory.






APPENDIX
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION






Republic of Rwanda                                        Kigali, September 24, 1996
Public Enterprise Reform Project                                      Marc Rugenera
Ministry of Finance                                              Minister of Finance
(Cr. 21 13-RW)
Unofficial Summary of Borrower's Contribution
Background
1.    On May 7, 1990, the Government of Rwanda entered into a credit agreement with
IDA with the objective of having its technical and administrative capacity strengthened to
implement the country's reform program of public enterprises. The related project consists
of two parts: the first (Part A) devoted to institutional strengthening of the Division of
Public Enterprises within the Ministry of Finance which was responsible for design,
implementation and monitoring of the public enterprise reform Program; and the second
(Part B) aimed at revising legislation on public enterprises, formulating a privatization
strategy and an action plan for Government's divestiture, preparing contract-plans with
specific efficiency targets for some public enterprises, carrying out diagnostic studies to
assess the technical, economic and financial viability of some others, and formulating a
strategy for privatization or liquidation of some others.
Project Implementation
2.    Part A: The Division of Public Enterprises which was mandated to carry out the
project did not succeed because it was ill-equipped, both in terms of human and material
resources. In fact, the four officials assigned to the Division were given other
responsibilities within the Ministry of Finance. In the absence of incentives, they were
hardly motivated to devote their time to project work. However, the objectives assigned to
the Division were met indirectly by a technical team created in 1992 and supervised by the
Minister of Finance. The team, which was staffed by qualified national and expatriate
experts and given the necessary equipment, successfully completed studies demonstrating
the appropriate role of the public sector in the national economy (divestiture from productive
activities, promotion, and social activities).
3.    Part B: The project did not succeed in revising the legislation on public enterprises.
However, it did prepare the draft law on the statute of public enterprises and national
organizations. The law would reorganize those public enterprises that keep their statutes and
create a new kind of public enterprises (societes nationales du patrimoine) that would be
managed along the line of private business concerns. Unfortunately, the draft law has not
been approved yet.
4.     With the assistance of a foreign consulting firm, the project developed a privatization
strategy which remains a useful source of reference for any future privatization program.
5.    Based on an inventory of 89 enterprises, both of public and mixed ownership, the
project had classified them into those that had ceased activities and must be liquidated, those
that could only survive if privatized because the Government lacked funds to invest in them,



- 2 -
those that were unable to compete with the private sector, and those public enterprises that
would remain in the Government's portfolio but required restructuring.
6.    Some preliminary work was done on the remaining items in the action plan:
preparing contract-plans with specific efficiency targets for some enterprises, carrying out
diagnostic studies to assess the technical, economic and financial viability of others, and
formulating a strategy for privatization or liquidation of some others. On the whole, the
agenda remained unfinished.
Assessment of IDA's and the Government of Rwanda's Performance
7.    IDA's performance was satisfactory. Credit funds were available when requested.
There were regular missions following which relevant recommendations were made and
accepted by the Government. It was, however, deplorable that such missions did not take
place in 1991 and 1992, when the project most needed IDA's advice for its start up.
8.    The Government's performance was less satisfactory. Counterpart funds were
disbursed late. However, this did not impact on project progress. On the other hand, there
was a recognized lack of readiness and commitment. The revised legislation on public
enterprises had not been approved at project closing, though there had been some progress
since last August. Difficulties stemmed from the slow workings of bureaucracy and divided
public opinion on privatization. It should be noted though that the Government acted under
most unfavorable conditions (volatile political situation and civil war since 1990).
9.    Despite the unpropitious circumstances, the project achieved some minor results,
such as the privatization of SONATUBES, Project rizicole de BUTARE, Imprimerie
Nationale, Forge Gouvemmentale de Nyanza, and divestiture from TRAFIPRO. On the
other hand, a major achievement of the project was an extensive analytical study of the
financial and operational situation of each of the more than 80 public enterprises completed
by the technical team during the last phase (May 1995-April 1996). Overall, project
implementation was satisfactory (see Audit report of April 1996).
Conclusion
10.   Cooperation between IDA and the Government was good during project preparation
and implementation. They made the necessary changes when needed, and did their best but
were undermined by adverse circumstances beyond their control. They had underestimated
the main constraints to the project: the political situation was more volatile and the list of
target enterprises too long while the implementation schedule was too tight, which inevitably
resulted in poor performance and few results. The ultimate lesson was that the environment
in which the project is to be implemented plays an important part in its success or lack
thereof. Another lesson is that certain prerequisites must be met before the project starts,
namely there must be enough qualified staff and these must be adequately equipped to do
their tasks.



1 8 OCT. 9610
REPUBLIQUE RWANDAISE                           Kigali, le   17 OCt 1996
MINISTERE DES FINANCES                          N4J6 /FIN. 10.05/C
B.P. 158 KIGALI
Monsieur Eugen Scanterie
Directeur p.i des op6rations
pour 1e Rwanda, R6gion d'Afrique
Banque Mondiale
WASHINGTON D.C.
Fax N (202) 477-6391
bie  : Rapport d'Achdvement
du PAREP version corrig&e
Monsieur le Directeur,
Quelques erreurs de frappe
s' tant.gliss6es dans le texte du rapport d'AchOvement du Projet de
Reforme des Entreprises Publiques vous transmis par ma lettre
no 13Z5/Fin.01.05/C du 14 courant, j'ai 1'honneur de vous faire
parvenir la version corrig6e.
Veuillez agr4er,  Monsieur  le
Directeur, 1'expression de ma haute consid6ration.
Le Ministre des Finances
Marc RUGNNRI
' S 04



2 ~~~~~~~/                                      31'10tO 
! REPUBLIQUE RWANDAISE                               Kigali, la
MINISTERE DES FINANCES
Projet de Reforme dos
Entreprises Publiques
B.P. 158 XIGALI
Fax 77581
Rapport da'aohvement di Prolit d'Assainissement et de
Restrugt P&tton des Zntreprises  Publignues (AREP. Cr IDA 2113)
I. Introduction
Le rapport d'achavement de ce projet comprend trois
parties dont la lere et la 3eme sont r6dig&es par la Banque
Mondiale, tandis que la 2Ame est r6dig6e par l'Emprunteur et
pr6sQnte l'analyce.des principaux problAmes relatife au
projet, ainsi qu'une evaluation r6trospective de son ex6cution
du point do vue de l'Emprunteur.
Selon l'opinion de la-Banque, "La r6daction de cette
deuxi&me partie du-rapport offre & l'emprunt.ur loccasion de
proc4der A une analyse ind6pendante des enseignements de
1'op6ration et de r6fl6chir sur la prestation de la Banque et
de tous ceux qui ont pris part & la preparation et &
:'execution du Projet".
xI. iastoriaue
Le projet a vu le jour & la suite de l'Accord de
crfdit de D4veloppement (Cr.NO2113/Rw) conclu & Washington
entre is gouvernement Rwandais et l'Association Internationale
de D6veloppement, le 07 Mai 1990. Los objectifs du
gouvernement, en concluant cet accord, 6taient de rentorcer
les capacit#s techniques et administratives pour Gtre & mime
d'executer son programme de rAforme des entreprises publiques
rendue n6cessaire par la situation d4plorable de ces
dernidres.
Le projet comprenait des lore doux parties telles
que decrites dans Ilannexe 2 & l'Accord de credit.



2
2/dUFI .A : Renforcoment Instituttonnel du NinistAre ago
- . J~inances pars
1. La Cr4ation dans la Direetion de l'Inspeation
G6n6rale des Entreprises Publiquos (DGIGF), d'une
Direction des Entreprises Publiques charg6es
d'4laborer le programme de r&forme des
entreprises publiques, de le mottre en oeuvre et
d'en assurer le suivi.
2. La fourniture de moyens mat6riels et humains au
Ministare des Finances aux fins de :
a) red6finir le r6le du secteur public dans
1 ' conomie nationale.
b) clarifier les rapports entre le gouvernement
Rwandais et les entreprises publiques.
c) formuler un cadre d6finissant les
interventions futures dans le secteur'des
entreprises publiques.
d) constituer un systame de suivi pour la
supervision des entreprises publiques.
flSZfl.B : Ztudes. Plans et L6caslation (Annexes)
Cette deuxiAme partie pr&voyait
1. La rfvision de la lfgislation sur leg entreprises
Publiques avec un calendrier fort pr6cis.
2. L'Alaboration d'une strategie g6n6rale de
privatisation des entreprises publiques.
3. Le Formulation de plan d'action en vue du
d6sengagement de l'Etat des entreprises publiques
&num&r&es A I'Annexe 5, C).
4. La formulation de contrats plan donnant des
objectifs d'efficacite prfcis pour les
entreprises publiques identifi6es.
5. L'ex6cution d'6tudes diagnostiques visant &
determiner la viabilit6 technique, fconomique et
rinanci6re des entreprises publiques (Annexe 5,
paraphe E).
6. La formulation de contrats plan donnant des
objectifsad'efficacit6 precis pour les
entreprises publiques reprises au paragraphe F de
l'annexe 5.



3
7. L' hlaboration de stratfgie de privatisatioon ou de
liquidation pour lee entreprises publiques
pr6cis6es au paragraph. G de l'annexe 5.
IXX. ActivitA du Proipt
En d6finitive, la r6daction du rapport donnant
l'analyse des principaux probl&mes relatifs au projet, ainai
que l'4valuation r6trospective de son execution, revient, pour
l"'Emprunteur", A voir si les objectifs ci-dessus, inscrits
dans 1'Adcord de cr4dit, ant 6t6 atteints totalement,
partiellement, ou pas du tout at, dans ccs deux derniers cas,
A identifier les causes de cette carence. C'est ce que nous
allons faire dans les pages qui viennent.
I.Crfation d'une Direction des ZntreDrises Publiuses au sein
de la DQGFI mu Minigt4z. Gus Finances,
La Direction des Entreprises publiques, devenues une
Division suite a la r6forme de I'organigramme des services de
l'Administration centrale, aurait pu effectivement aider
l'emprunteur A atteindre lea objectifs du Projet.
Malheureusement, tel ne fut pas la cas parce que les
initiateurs de ce dernier ont, en quelque sorte, mis la
charrue avant les boeufs.
En effet, au moment ot l'on assignait A cette DEP,
une sArie d'actions, on constate qu'on avait oubli6 de lui
donner les moyens de son action. Son manque quantitatit et
qualitatif de ressources humaines et de moyens materiels fut
la cause de son inadaptation par rapport aux objectifs
recherch6s.
De plus, lea quelque quatre agents affect6s A cette
Division des Entreprises Publiques avaient d'autres charges
dans 1Q cadre de l'organigramme du Ministbre des Finances et
9i lon y ajoute qu'ils n'6taient pas int6ress6a A gs d6penser
pour le Projet en l'absence d'avantages incitatifs, on
comprendra aisAment pour quoi cette DEP n'est pas parvenu. a
61aborer le programme de r6forme des entreprises publiques.
Par cons6quent, la charge de 1e inettro en oeuvre et d'.n
assurer le suivi devenait sans objet. L'Objectif de
renforcement institutionnel du Minifin, par la cr6ation de la
DEP, n'a donc pas 6tG atteint
Par contre, les objectifs repris au point 2 de la
partie A, ci-dessus ont &t6 relativement atteints, mais
indirectement, & la suite de la cr6ation, en 1992, de la
cellule technique supervis6e par le Minifin.



4
En effet, la fourniture de.moyens mat6riels et
humains*& cette cellule Gtait.effective en 1993. Ainsi dot6e
de moyenslogistiques performants et d'expertu qualifihs tant
naalionaux qu'expatri6s, la-cellule Technique a pu r6aliser des
tU4.. umo'tr"  as o~~e dot *tve dZa6.aAi S 1 Vale du *u.taur
public dans 1'6conomui nationale (as d4sengager des activit4s
marchandes pour ne jouer quo le r6le promotionnel et se
charger des activitAs sociales et de sauverainet6).
Il faut, n6anmoins, r-gr-tter qu'& la cleture du projet la
cellule n'4tait encore parvenue ni & "formuler un cadre
d6finissant les interventions futures dans 1e secteur des
entreprises publiques ni & constituer un syst4me de suivi pour.
la supervision des entreprises publiquesn.



5
Parti B: Studes. Plang et lhgislation.
1. g6vision de la l1fislation sur los entreRrises RubliaueO 
Ld. Proj.t n's pan pu ftare cett@ r6vyiion. Xais il a fait un
travail relativement i-mportant d'elaboration du projet de loi
portant "Statut des Etablissements Publics et des soci6t&s
Nationales" Qui permettrait de r6organiser les 6tablissements
publics devant garder lour statut tout en rendant possible
l'apparition d'une nouvelle catggorie d'entrsprises publiques, &
savoir les sociftfs nationales du Patriioine qui seront g6r6.s
suivant le modele de gestion commerciale. Malheureusement, ce texte
n'est t0ujours qu'un projet et l'on no peux dire quand il deviendra
une loi, alors que son existence est une condition n6cessaire pour
pas mal d'actions en aval.
2. Elaboration d'uns mtratGaie g6n6rale do zrivatisation
Ici, le Projet, avec le concours d'un cabinet de consultants
international, a pu rialiser une 6tude ayant abouti a cette
"1strat6gie g6n6rale de privatization". Elle garde toujours sa
valeurs et tous ceux qui seront appel6s A poursuivre la mise en
ex6cution du programme de privatisation auront avantage  a y
recourir de temps en temps.
3. Formulateur de plan d'action en vue du d6senaaQement de 1'Etat
des entretrises fnum6r6es A l'annexe 5.C.
Le Projet a propos6 une approche qui peut Atre consid6r6e comme une
4bauche d'un plan d'action en vue du disengagement de l'Etat, des
89 entreprises publics et mixtes recens4es . Cs plan d'action est
indiquA en 7 points ci-apr6s.
1. Entreprises publiques devant dtre liquidGes car n'ayant pas
repris ou ne puvant pas reprendre d'activit6 depuis 1994.
2. Entreprises publiques devant atre privatis6es n'ayant pas pu
reprendre leur activitA compl6tement depuis 1994 car ne pouvant pas
investir ou 6tant trop endett4es, et l'Etat ne pouvant y subvenir.
3. Entreprises publiques devant atre privatis6es, n'ayant pas la
vocation et les moyens d'exercer leur activit6 et se trouvant dans
un secteur concurrentiel dans lequel elles doivent dtre mieux
g6r6es.
4. Entreprises publiques devant rester dans le portefeuille de
1'Etat apr&s restructuration.
5. SociOt6s  mixtes dans lesquelles 1'Etat d6tient des parts et qui
doivent Gtre liquid6es parcequ'elles n'ont pas repris leur
activit5s et ne les reprendront pas.



6
6. .Soci6tes mixtes dans lesquelles l'.Etat detient des parts et qui
doivent Otro liquid6es, parcequtelles sont en faillite constat6e et
irr6versible.
7.96ol4-dt  mixt-s dans lee quells 't'tet 46tent des parts at qui
doivent *tre privatis6es parceque l'Etat me desengage des mOmes
activit6s dans les entreprises publiques ou qu'il n'a pas los
moyer.s de participer & leur recapitalisation.
Pour les autres points (4 a 7 ) ci-avant le Projet a fait un
travail preliminaire mais n'a pas eu le temps d'aller plus loin.
Il faut dire que le calendrier initialement pr&vu n'a pas 6t6
respe-te, ce qui a n6cessit6 un amendement a l'accord intervenu en
1993 pour etre plus r6aliste. Mais ce nouveau celendrien n'a pas eu
plus de chance que le premier, de sorte que les quelques
propositions avanc&es par le projet  (voir ci-dessus)  ont 6t6
formul&es entre Mai 1995 et Avril 1996, date d'arr*t des activitOs.
IV.ProblAmes rencontres.
Comme on 1- voit, le projet nta pas attsint se6 objectifs. Quelles
sont les causes do cette d6ficience ? 11s convient de voir ce que
lea. deux partenaires, l'IDA, bailleur des fonds, et l'Emprunteur,
ont fait at Ce qu'ils n'ont pas fait.
1. ZL.WA.
a) Le credit a 6tA r6guli4rement mis A la disposition du projet
chaque fois qu'une demande Oligible lul a 6t6 adress6e.
b) Les missions de supervision du Projet ont 6t6 rfguli6rement
effectu6es A la suite desquelles des recommandations pertinentes
ont &t& formul1es et accept6es par 1'Emprunteur . On peut n6amoine
d6plorer l'absence de telles missions en 1991 et 1992, -juste au
moment oa le Projet avait besoin de conseils pour bien d6marrer.
2. LLRmxrunteurt 
La Contrepartie a 4t6 librOre, m4me si cela le fut avec retard, qui
no pouvait cependant avoir d'influence our la marche du projet, vu
la modicite de cette contrepartiQ. Dana tous lea cas, d6s la fin de
1993, la situation etait r6gularis6e.
I1 a donn6 son accord A temps pour lea recrutement des experts.
Cadre institutionnel.
11 faut reconnattre que lemprunteur n'a pas 6t6 & la hauteur de
mes engagements. La base juridique, pourtant incontournable, n'a
pas 6t6 disponibilis6e A temps et, & l'heure actuelle, on n'est
toujours pas avance (Loi portant statut des Etablissements' publics
et des socift4s Nationales du Patrimoine, mesures d'ex6cution de la
loi de privatisation et d'investissement publics...).



7
Il slen suit que la creation de soci6t*s Nationales du Patrimoine
risque d'attendre encore un peu. Cependant, depuis le mois  d'AoOt
* s.,'dernier, le Gouvernement A pris las dispositions appropriGen,pour
rttraper le temps perdu.
Uae tell  caerence   *a'exp1iqu*    &  la  fain  par  la  lenteur
bureaucratique et par ie fait que, la matigre & r6gir ftant neuvw,
1'opinion publique 6tait partagee et il a fallu du temps et
:..   beaucoup de patience pour vanir & bout des derni&res r6ticences et
obtenir la majorite requise pour le vote de la loi de
privatisation. Il convient de noter que l'emprunteur a des
circonstances att6nuantes, A savoir les circonstances du moment,
caract6ris6es par un environnement politique en pleine mutation
(avAnement du multipartisme) aggravee par une situation de guerre
et d'anarchie que le Pays connaissait depuis 1990.
Malgr6 ce concours de circonstanco d6favorables,  le
projet a quand meme fait un travail d'une certaine valour. On peut
citer ici.
- L'assistance apport6e & 1'Emprunteur pour la privatisation de la
soci6t6 SONATUBES, privatisation r6alis6e en 1992 par cession des
actions de l'Etat.
-D6sengagement de la Coop6rative TRAFIPRO que le projet a assist6e
dans l'assainissament de sa situation financikre, ce qui lui a
permts de devenir une soci6t6 commerciale desormais contrOl6e par
les cooperateurs sans plus d'ing6rence de 1'Etat.
-Assistance au gouvernement rwandais pour la privatisation de la
rizerie du Projet Rizicole de Butare, operation ayant 6t& men&e
jusqu'& la vente publique des parts de 1'Etat. La guerre a
n6anmoins interrompu le processus qui arrivait & la phase de
transfert de la propri6t6.
-Assistance apport6e au processus do privatisation de l'Imprimerie.
Nationale dont la vente de l'actif inutilis6 avait commenc6e mais
interrompue par la guerre.
-Privatisation de la Forge Gouvernementale de NYANZA
La Projet avait confectionnd is dossier ad hoc et l'accord Gtait
intervenu  pour c6der la forge aux artisans par contrat de vente
location .Cette op6ration fut 4galement interrompue par les
6v6nements d'Avril 1994.
Ces actions sont sans doute & mettre & l'actif du Projet.
Il faut, n6anmoins, reconnaItre en mgme temps qu'il s'agit d'une
activit 4 marginale en comparaison des objectifs que les signataires
de l'Accord de cr4dit s'6taient fix6s.
Par contre, durant la derni6re phase, (Mai 1995-Avril 1996),
lea experts du projet ont r6alis& un travail important consistant
A constituer des archives exploitables le moment venu, A analyser
la situation de chaque entreprise (plus de 80) sur le plan de la
gestion (administrative, FinanciAre at Comptable).



8
Il f 1ut n6anmoins regretter quo la compAtence des experts du projet
n'a  pas  6t6  utilis6e  comme  il  le  fallait  par  diff6rents
d6pertements, certains pr6fdrant meme sladresser A des consultants
entis dfailleurs pour diverUsU  r!aions, Quant A la gestion du
pro;iet, elle a ete satisfaisante et pour cela on pourra se r6f6rer
au rapport d'Audit-r6alis6 en-Avril 1996.
CONCLUSION.
De  ce  qui pr&cade, on peut  tirer  la
conclusion suivante: Globalement l'IDA et le Gouvernement ont fait
de leuk mieux pour que le Projet atteigne ses des objectifs.
Cependant, ils n'ont pas correctement percu Ilimportance des
contraintes du moment et plus particulierement des mutations
op6z6os depuis 1989 sur le plan politique, avec comme consequence,
une nouvelle fa9on d'aborder l'examen des dossiers a traiter. Cette
lacune est & la base de l'insucc&s du projet parce que les
objectifs 6taient  sans commune mesure avec la r6alit& du Pays &
l'6pcque.   Une  si  longue  liste  d'entreprises,  mdme  apr&s
l'arendement de 1993, & restructurer, liquider, privatiser, avec.un
calendrier aussi serr6, ne pouvait conduire qu'& une si faible
performance. La le,on qulon peut en tirer, c'est qua d6sormais il
faudra tenir compte de l'influence du milieu sur les chances de
r6ussite d'un projet. I1 convient aussi de s'assurer que toutes les
conditions prealables sont r6unies, notamment la disponibilite des
ressources humaines et mat6rielles dont la projet a besoin pour la
r-alisation de son programme d'action. or, comme cela a ete dit
plus haut, le projet a attendu plus de deux ans pour voir sa
cellule technique au complet, avec une coordination permanente, ce
qui n'6tait pas le cas jusque l&.
Cependant, le Gouvernement peut se f6liciter d'avoir apport6 A
temps au projet les modifications rendues n6cessaires par ces
circonstances du moment.
C'est dans cat esprit, que la restructuration, qui 6tait
initialement un objectif majeur du Projet, a 6t& remplacee par la
privatisation et la liquidation des entreprises ayant encore une
certaine valeur v6nale.
Finalement, les deux partenaires peuvent, l4gitimement, se
fliciter de leur bonne coop6ration pour r6aliser le projet.
Si tous les objectifs qu'ils s'6taiant assign6s n'ont pas 6t6
atteints, clest avant tout que les conditions n6cessaires n'Otaient
pas r6unies jusqu'a la cl6ture du projet et cela pour des raisons.
ind4pendantes de leur volont6, vu les. circonstances et les
mutations intervenues au Rwanda depuis la signature de l'Accord.
Xigali, le 24 Septembre 1996
Le Ministre des Finances
Marc RUGENERA.















IMAGING
Report No.:         16406
Type:      ICR



