Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5360-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 31, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution *nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USS1    =     Cr$ 2,562 (Oct. 31, 1984)
Cr$1    =     US$0.00039(Oct. 31, 1984)
ACRONYMS
CE             Commissao Especial (OET)
(Land Regularization Cotmission of OET)
DC             Diretoria de Cadastro e Tributacao (INCRA)
(Directorate of Cadastre and Taxation of INCRA)
DF             Diretoria Fundiaria (INCRA)
(Directorate of Land of INCRA)
DI             Diretoria de Integracao com Estados e Territorios (INCRA)
(Directorate of Integration with States and Territories of INCRA)
EMFA           Estado MaLor das Forcas Armadas
(Joint Staff of the Armed Forces)
INCRA          Instituto NacionaL de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
MIRAD          Ministerio da Reforma e Desenvolvimento Agrario
(Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Development)
OET            Organo Estadual de Terras
(State Land Institute)
PAPp           Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor
(Support Program for Small Rural Producers of the Northeast
Region Rural Development Program)
PDSFN          Programa de Desenvolvimento do Sistema Fundiario Nacional
(National Land Administration Development Program)
PF             Projeto Fundiario (OET)
(Land Adjudication Team of OET)
SUDENE         Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
TDA            Titulos da Divida Agraria
(Agrarian Debt Bonds)
UTPNE          Unidade Tecnica do Projeto Nordeste
(State Coordinating Units of the Northeast Program)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                =       January I to )ecember 31
Northeast Rural Development Program =       April 1 to March 31
Project                              =      April I to March 31



FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMIINSTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary                                              (iv)
I*   INTRODUCTION             I........******.****...    1
II.  LAND TENURE CONDITIONS AND POLICIES ...................s.....      2
A.   Present Land Situation *...............................    2
8.   Legislative Background ....sEm...     .........................   3
C.   Cadastral and Fiscal Background .................................    3
D.  TLand Policies and Programs       ............................    4
E.   Prior Bank and IDB Assistance for Land Activities   .....    5
III. LAND INSTITUTIONS ...............      ...........................    6
A.   Federal Land Institutions **.....................             6
B.   State Land Institutions  ...........e... *..o*ooee e*oos.e    7
C.  Other Institutions Involved in Land Tenure Improvement.    8
IV.  THE PROJECT *       ...............................................    9
A.   Project Origin ........................................    9
B.   Project Area .....eeeeee.ss      .............eee...    9
C.   Project Objectives and Strategy          .......................  10
D.   Rationale for Bank Involvenent          ........................   12
E.   Detailed Project Features           .............................   13
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................... .. se ........   16
A.   Institutional Responsibilities   ............e ...........   16
B.   Implementation Arrangements ...........................   17
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation ......      .......................    20
D.   Implementation Schedule ........................... .        20
This report is based on the Ftidtags of an appraisal mission to Brazil in
November 1984. Mission members included Maurice Asseo (Bank), Daniel
Cremont and Andre Sousbie (consultants). Alain Tobelem, Rene Ruivivar and
Felipe Saez have contributed to the appraisal of the project.
fl docmet hsa idesvd disinution anxd may be used b!y mapentEos onlEy in the porfon_oe of
their of cod dubes Its eoeofto my not odoawe be dicodoed waolt World B11 authomtimz



- ii -
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...*...***....**............        21
A.   Project Costs **************..........................     21
B.   Financing *************.****.......                        22
C.  Procurement *******.....****      ..........................  22
n.   Disbursements .     .     .    .............               24
E.   Account and Audit Requirements .....      ..................    26
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .......      ....................    26
A.   Project Benefits .*.......** **********...........**...    26
B.   Project Beneficiaries .... ..  .. . *.. * .. ..... ......  27
C.   Project Risks ..o*........... o..o...........*........ oo.  28
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE SOUGHT AND RECQMIENDATION       ...............    29
Tables
1. List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies       ............    31
2.  Cost Phasing of Project Activities        ......................    32
3. Project Costs per State ...------------------------------      33
4. Financing Plan ....**        ..................................  34
5.  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements  ................    35
Charts
1. Brazil - Northeast Region - Periods Suitable for
Aerial Photography *.........o     ..........................  36
2. Main Project Activities - Implementation Chart ..........      37
3.  Project Organization Chart . *e     ..............e ............    38
Annexes
1. Model of Agreement Between INCRA and the States .........      39
Attachments:
Al:  Yearly Costs of Photogrammetric Operations .....--     55
A2:  Cadastral Operations Program .....    ................  56
A3: Maps of Photogrammetric Operations in Each State
(summarized in Map 1)
A4: Maps of Areas to be Adjudicated
(summarized in Map 2)
B : Parameters of Remuneration oE State Land Institute
Staff  ...***      ..................................  57
Cl:  Proposed Organization Chart of State Land Institutes   58
C2:  Structure of State Land Institutes - Indicative
List of Headquarters Personnel ....so ................    59
D : Dynamic Staff Planning of the OETs ................   63
E : Federal Financing of OFT Personnel Costs - Levels of
Financing .............*.*****e**e*************e**...    63



- iii -
Page No.
F : Cadastre Components *     .............................  64
G : Equipment List and Costs         .........................    66
El:  Land Redistribution Objectives (Area)  ............   68
H2:  Land Redistribution Objectives (Beneficiaries) ..     69
2. Directorate of Integration with States and Territories
- Functions and Internal Organization       ...................    70
3. Terms of Reference for the Design and Introduction of
a Management Monitoring System in the State Laids
Institutes     ooo.o .......  , ,.................           76
4.  INCRA - Powers of the Directorate of Integration
- Draft of Presidential Resolution      ......................  80
5. Implementation of State Cadastres - Memorandum of
Understandinig *   .............es.....u..............       83
6.  Glossary of Technical Terms ..s*       .......................    86
7.  Documents Available on File ....    .........................    91
Maps
1. Brazil - Northeast Region - Yearly Aerophotogrammetric Operations
Map # IBRD 18685
2. Brazil - Northeast Region - Yearly Adjudication Operations
Map # IBRD 18686



-iv -
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower       Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount     :  US$100.0 million equivalent.
Terms      :  Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would aim to extend the beniefits of
secure land ownership to up to 700,000 small farmers in the
Northeast, many of whom would also benefit from
complementary development activities under the
liuak-supported Northeast Rural Development program, and to
improve the government's ability to formulate land policies
and administer land resources. The project would achieve
the first objective by (a) identifying and delimiting all
private and public properties within an area of some 31
million ha of rural land in the Northeast region over a
period of about three and a half years; (b) regular-
izing the tenure of all rightful occupants; (c) selecting,
planning the use of and initially administering lands to be
acquired by the government for redistribution to some
130,000 presently landless farmers or farmers whose
excessively small properties need to be reallocated; and
(d) confirming the titles of all legitimate landowners and
providing titles to beneficiaries of land regularization,
reallocation or redistributlon operations. This is expected
to remove a major obstacle to the access to official credit
for at least 200,000 small farmers, increase production and
employment on up to 1 million ha of presently under-utilized
or idle lands and help resolve latent and open land
conflicts. The second objective would be achieved by
(a) establishing cadastral data banks in each of the nine
Northeast states and the State of Minas Gerais for the
legal, fiscal and economic administration of private and
plblic lands; (b) strengthening land institutions in staff
and equipment; and (c) carrying out various legal,
institutional and socioeconomic studies.
Risks      :  The proposed project would strengthen the government's
capacity to implement the agrarian reforms aimed at by



-v -
Brazilian legislation. As such, it would have political
implications at various levels of Brazilian society. At the
federal and state administration level, the project enjoys
overall political support. At the level of small farmers,
there is a small risk of adverse political reactions if
their expectations were not met. The project could suffer
from delays in institutional development, legal obstructions
from unsatisfied claimants to land ownership or a
lower-than-expected efficiency of staff or equipment.
Therefore, the project puts heavy emphasis on technical
assistance, staff training and studies of possible
legislative and administrative improvements. The timely
implementation of aerial photography, on which subsequent
project activities depend, could be affected by unfavorable
weather conditions. However, beyond the first, tightly
scheduled year, aerial photography operations have been
planned so as to make photographic outputs available up to
one year in advance of subsequent project activities. The
immediate, self-contained objectives of the project justify
the proposed investment. Fuller benefits would be derived,
however, through the implementation of complementary
development activities such as those envisaged under the
Northeast Rural Development program.



- vi -
Estimated                                                 US$ Million
Costs                                               Local   Foreign   Total
Aerial Photograumetry
Aerial photography                 2.5       7.6      10.1
Ground control and mapping        23.5      43.8      67.3
Land Tenure Identification          50.4        8.9     59.3
Cadastre Implementation & Titling   9.3        3.1      12.4
Support for Land Restructuring      15.5        3.8     19.3
Institutional Strengthening
Buildings                          3.4        i.4      4.8
Data processing equipment          2.4       3.3       5.7
Other equipment and furniture      6.4       5.2      11.6
Staff training and tech. assist.  3.1         1.1      4.2
Project Administration               8.7        -        8.7
Studies                              1.3         .1      1.4
Total Baseline Costs               126.5       78.3    204.8
Physical contingencies            15.2       9.4      24.6
Price contingencies               13.0       8.1      21.1
_  -  ,/
Total Project Cost                 154.7       95.8    250.5
Financing                                                 US$ Million
Plan                                                Local   Foreign   Total
Federal Government 2/              119.6       20.9    140.5
State Governments                   10.0       -        10.0
IBRD                                25.1      74.9    100.0
154.7      95.8    250.5
Estimated Disbursements:                       US$ Million --
Bank FY                               86      87        88       89
Annual                               33.0    35.0      28.0      4.0
Cumulative                           '3.0    68.0      96.0    100.0
Rate of Return: n.a.
1/   Including about US$7.5 million of taxes.
2/   Including an expected IDB loan to finance foreign exchange costs and
part of local costs.



BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Brazil suffers from skewed land ownership and lacks a reliable
cadastral system through which to improve its knowledge of the existing
situation and act on it. Recent changes, such as the creation of a
Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Development (MIRAD) and the recognition by
government authorities of the importance of adequate land tenure structures
for successful rural development, especially in the Northeast, are
considered to be right steps towards a better land administration system.
Building institutions, both at the federal and state levels, compatible
with the growing objectives of the government in improving land tenure and
use is, therefore, of immediate importance.
1.02      The proposed project would contribute to those objectives through
an initial program of about three and a half years to (a) adjudicate, i.e.,
ascertain, all rights to land on some 31 million ha in priority areas of
the Northeast region using modern and uniform aerial photogrammetry and
land survey methods and a multi-purpose data bank, leading to the possible
reallocation and redistribution of about 10% of that area; (b) strengthen
the state land institutions of the region and help INCRA develop a new
function of providing technical assistance and standards to those
institutions; and (c) study various institutional, legal and socioeconomic
factors affecting the long-term impact of land administration. The total
cost of the project would be about US$250.5 million, excluding land
acquisition costs. Later phases of the land tenure admiristration program
are expected to extend this project 's activities to other areas in the
Northeast and other regions of Brazil.
1.03      The project would be administered by the National Institute for
Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA) and implemented at field level by
the Northeast State Land Institutes (OET). Aerial photograsmetry
operations would be contracted to private firms. The Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) is processing a loan to finance project activities
in three of the ten states included in the project area.
1.04      Adjudication is an essential prerequisite of land registration,
land restructuring and disposition of state lands. The project is expected
to confirm the titles of up to 300,000 landowners and provide titles to
another 700,000 rightful occupants of land in the areas adjudicated. It
would eliminate a major barrier to the access to official credit for at
least 200,000 small farmers, increase those farmers' production, reduce
land conflicts and migration towards already congested urban centers and
establish the basis for efficient land administration and taxation. The
project would break new ground in Bank lending operations. It would be
only the second or possibly the third Bank project, worldwide, to finance
improvements in land tenure administration on a large scale, by far the
largest and the first to do it in close linkage with a rural development
program of equivalent scale.



-2-
II. LAND TENURE CONDITIONS AND POLICIES
A. Present Land Situation
2.01      Agriculture employs 30X of Brazil's labor force and contributes 38X
to export earnings and IIZ to GDP. Past agricultural growth has been
impressive, averaging 4.7Z per annum during 1970-82 or almost twice the rate
of population increase; this is considered well below the country's potential
given its rapidly evolving technology and abundant land resources. Brazil's
ratio of farmland to population is among the highest in the world although
only 43Z of Brazil's territory (i.e., about 370 million ha) is classified as
land in farms. The remainder is mostly large, unexploited and often
unexplored areas in the Amazon Basin and Center West. Furthermore, only 14%
of the land in farms is cultivated under perennial or annual crops.
2.02      Farmland is currently held under various forms of occupancy,
reflecting the different ways through which it has historically been acquired
by private individuals. Data on the extent of these various forms of -
occupancy are not available. However, it is widely accepted that a large
amount of untitled land has been taken over by private individuals, many of
whom have, by virtue of tenure, acquired possessory rights under existing
laws. Much land is also held with insufficient documentary evidence, with
inaccurate definitions of boundaries and without maps.
2.03      The extent of landlessness among Brazil's small farmers and (when
they have access to land) the uneconomic size of their farms are of serious
concern.  Based on agricultural census data for the country as a whole, in
1980 only 64Z of farmers owned any land, while 171 were squatters. Farms of
under 10 ha (50Z of the total) had an average size of 3.5 ha (down from
4.0 ha in 1960), which is hardly enough to sustain a livelihood on most
soils. In the Northeast region, the geographic focus of this project, only
some 30% of farmer families own land. Nearly half of the agricultural labor
force is comprised of temporary workers. The average size of farms of under
10 ha (68Z of the total) has fallen to 2.7 ha, significantly below the
national average.
2.04      The already highly skewed distribution of farm land ownership has
worsened over the past two decades. In 1980, 1X of the landowners in Brazil
controlled 47% of the land, while the lower 50% controlled only 2% of the
land. In the Northeast, the 220 largest farms (each with more than
10,000 ha) control more land than the 1.7 million farms with less than 10 ha
each. Distribution is also considerably skewed in frontier agricultural
areas on the fringes or south of the Amazon region, where the land tenure
situation is fraught with problems arising from multiple titlings of a same
plot, occupation by impoverished migrants, fraudulent title sales and
explosive social tensions. Land related tensions are also widely reported in
the more developed southern states, especially in the State of Sao Paulo.
Everywhere in Brazil, most farmers without land are deprived of access to
agricultural investment credit and receive little help from extension
agents. They are often prohibited from farming the same land more than one
or two years in a row, for fear that this could lead to claims of ownership
of that land. This results in substantial waste of manpower and of
production opportunities.



- 3 -
2.05      Apart from the obvious implications for income distribution, the
concentration of land ownership has important implications for both output
and employment. Statistical evidence indicates a sharp decline in the
intensity of land and labor use as farm size increases. Land quality
has no effect on this relationship. The explanations which have been
advanced for the low utilization of land in farms include the increased use
of land by large landowners for its non-production benefits (e.g., as an
inflation hedge, speculative asset, or a basis for obtaining subsidized
credit) and the need by small farmers to cultivate most of their land just to
obtain subsistence income.
B. Legislative Background
2.06      Under Brazil's federative system, the federal government's area of
direct jurisdiction is limited to a 150-km-wide strip along the land borders
of Brazil, a 100-km-wide strip on each side of the federal highways built or
planned in the Amazon region, federal territories and areas which have been
expropriated for social purposes. The remaining rural areas are under the
direct jurisdiction of the states, which administer them in accordance with
federal as well as their own respective laws. The federal government is
responsible for agrarian legislation, as well as for expropriation in the
social interest. State land laws have to conform with corresponding federal
legislation.
2.07      Brazilian agrarian law, as written, is complex but is considered an
adequate basis for dealing with current land administration and tenure
issues. Actions taken by the government to separate untitled land from
private land and other matters pertaining to land adjudication are currently
governed by Law No. 4504 of 1964, Law No. 6015 of 1973 and Law No. b383 of
1976. The concept of property ownership as having a social role is embodied
in Brazilian legislation, starting with the Federal Constitution of 1946,
which also authorizes expropriation of land in the social interest. Building
on this principle, the -Estatuto de Terra" (Law No. 4504), which is
considered the centerpiece of Brazilian agrarian legislation, was enacted on
November 30, 1964. Its objective is to promote agriculture and agrarian
reform through the elimination of unproductive large estates and uneconomic
small farms; however, it has achieved little after twenty years.
2.08      Application of existing laws is hampered by a variety of factors,
including the limited number and insufficient training of judges and state
attorneys, the lack of knowledge of small farmers about their legal rights
and their limited access to legal resources. Based on its recent land
titling experience in the Northeast, INCRA claims that most titles studied
show registration errors which void them of legal value. Measures are being
taken at the federal level to compile and disseminate agrarian legislation.
The effective application of existing tenancy laws would give clear ownership
security to the landowners and long-term tenure security to their tenants,
which would be fundamental in achieving higher agricultural production on
suitable soils (para. 4.25).



-4-
C. Cadastral and Fiscal Background
2.09      The land taxation system in Brazil distinguishes between farms
according to their size and the efficiency of their use. This classification
was intended to penalize owners holding large tracts of underutilized land.
The resulting complex tax estimates are, however, established exclusively on
the basis of declarations provided by the supposed owners themselves to
INCRA. INCRA rarely uses its right to check such declarations and is
ill-equipped to do so. Data provided by the owners for tax purposes are
stored by INCRA in a central cadastre. They include transcient information,
such as areas planted to seasonal crops and yields obtained, along with more
traditional cadastral information, such as the area and location of the
property, without, however, proper geodetic references or a precise
delimitation of boundaries. Value declarations are based on a compromise
between the owner's desire to maximize his creditworthiness and minimize his
taxes. Annual updating of the cadastre is not compulsory for plots below
500 ha. Recent surveys have demonstrated that the sum of the areas declared
to be privately owned in a given municipality often exceed the municipality's
total area by as much as 30%. The number of families working on those lands
is, conversely, always substantially underestimated.
2.10      Agricultural credit subsidies and a variety of tax incentives have
tended to increase the speculative value of land. While tax incentives which
resulted in extensive forest clearings in the Amazon region have been
considerably reduced, a number of other tax incentives remain and would
require a closer look by Brazilian policy makers. The gradual elimination of
agricultural credit subsidies and the overall scarcity of credit in the
country are expected to encourage many owners to sell their underutilized
land. A dynamic land market would, however, require the establishment of
land purchase credit, through long-term mortgages, which may prove difficult
in the present tight financial situation.
D. Land Policies and Programs
2.11      The government is emphasizing the development of the agricultural
sector in view of its important contributions to the country's economic
recovery and to employment. In the past, agricultural growth was achieved
mainly through an expansion of crop production into new areas, supported by a
heavily subsidized program of frontier development, and the expansion of
capital-intensive agriculture principally in the more developed south.
However, the government is now giving more attention to increasing the
utilizati%n and productivity of existing farmlands, in part through improved
land titling and administration. Furthermore, most Northeast state
governments appear today to perceive some improvement of land tenure
conditions as an important political and economic objective. This is a
marked change from the situation prevailing a few years ago and reflects the
overall trend of the country towards industrialization and political
structures which tend to reduce the influence of large landowners. The
Brazilian Church is also taking an increasingly active role in defense of
small and landless farmers and is calling for substantial improvements in the
land tenure situation.



-5
2.12      Government efforts to improve land tenure conditions have
intensified in the last two years or so. On August 16, 1982, the government
instituted a National Land Policy Program to unify the implementation of all
land adjudication and regularization projects, initiate new projects to meet
the government's targets for land adjudication and regularization and ensure
the effective application of the  Estatuto de Terra."  Within the framework
of the land program, a National Land Administration Development Program
(PDSFN) has been formulated. The objectives of the PDSFN are to
(a) strengthen the federal and state land institutions; (b) clarify the
existing land situation; (c) improve the understanding of federal and state
governments about conditions of ownership and use of land under state
jurisdiction; (d) propose legal and administrative measures to improve
conditions of landownership and use; and (e) improve access to land for small
farmers. The PDSFN has a 15-year planning horizon, the initial phase of
which would be supported by the project.  Geographically, this initial phase
will be concentrated on the Northeast region where it will be complemented by
other development activities under the Northeast Rural Development Program
(para. 4.03).
2.13      Improving the land tenure conditions in a country as large as
Brazil, where the land tenure situation is particularly complex and
ill-known, will require a long and sustained effort. Surveying, delimiting
and titling a substantial portion of the national territory would, alone,
require anywhere between 15 and 20 years within a program which would have to
be national in scope, deal simultaneously with the various institutions and
components of the system and be implemented in continuous geographical and
time slices, which could be grouped into separate projects.
E. Prior Bank and IDB Assistance for Land Activities
2.14      Until recently, Bank experience in land tenure operations in Brazil
was limited mainly to relatively small land titling and redistribution
components in a few rural development projects, which have generally been
subject to considerable funding, legal and institutional delays. however,
experience in the Piaui Rural Development Project (Loan 2015-BR), which has a
major land component, points to a substantial potential for improvements in
the adjudication and redistribution of public and private lands. Bank
experience in Paraguacu, Bahia (Loan 1589-BR), has also shown that the survey
and regularization of existing ownership rights is necessary for land
acquisition in certain areas, especially those with social tension. Recent
rural development projects in Maranhao, Paraiba and Bahia have relatively
large land components, which rely on modern photogrammetric techniques.
2.15        Experience in larger-scale land surveying and titling has  been
generated by an IDB-financed project which has been operating since 1982 in
five states of the Northeast under INCRA coordination. The project has
helped accelerate considerably land adjudication and titling operations in
the Northeast. Cooperation with land owners in the delimitation of their
properties is said to have been smooth, the main difficulties reported being
usually with small landowners who no longer reside in the project area. The
project would have thus failed to reach claimants to only 5% of the surveyed
area. The project utilizes aerial photography and cartographic restitution
in Paraiba, Bahia and Pernambuco and traditional topography in Sergipe and
Alagoas. It does not provide for the establishment cf date banks, which
would allow the preservation and future updating of cadastral information.



The project provides for the purchase of some 82,000 ha of land to benefit
some 5,000 families. To date, only some 10,000 ha have been actually
acquired.
2.16      Overall, past IDB and Bank assistance for land activities has
effectively helped in developing the land policies of the states concerned
and achieving various institutional improvements. Furthermore, the
Bank-financed projects have introduced modern, cost efficient land survey
technologies similar to the ones proposed in this project. In August 1984,
INCRA organized, with Bank and IDB assistance, an International Symposium on
Land Administration to help disseminate among Brazilian land institutions the
modern cadastral techniques to be used in the project. INCRA has also
organized a number of seminars in various Northeast states for the same
purpose.
III. LAND INSTITUTIONS
A. Federal Land Institutions
The National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform
3.01      The National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA)
was established in 1970 to implement the proposed agrarian reform and promote
settlement projects. It has recently been reorganized as a semi-independent
agency under MIRAD and is the lead agency within the National Land System
(SFN). The new INCRA comprises a Planning and Coordination Secretariat and
the Directorates of Land, Cadastre and Taxation, Colonization, Integration
with States and Territories (DI) and Administration. The Directorate of Land
(DF) carries out all land survey and titling operations in areas under
federal (rather than state) jurisdiction, using mostly traditional
topographical technology. It is also responsible for all land expropriations
in the country and for land purchases financed with federal funds. The land
redistribution program, PROTEKJA-FUNTERRA, established in 1971/72 to reduce
land distribution inequalities through purchases and expropriation, has not
proven capable of meeting its objectives. It has now been abolished as an
independent program, and its objectives and budget have been integrated
within a new Land Acquisition Department of the DF. The Directorate of
Cadastre and Taxation (DC) is the depository of all statistical information
collected by INCRA and is responsible for the determination of land taxer.
The Directorate of Colonization plans, implements and assists al1 federal
settlement projects, including the Bank-financed settlements in Rondonia.
The DI is described in the following paragraph. INCRA is represented at the
state level through its regional directorates, which, in the past, have dealt
mainly with tax data collection, cooperativism and settlement and also
assumed the land administration responsibilities of some states. Most of the
9,000 employees of the institution are located in those regional
directorates. The strengthening of OETs to be achieved through the project
will require that the functions and staffing of the regional INCRA offices be
reviewed. The possibility of transferring to the OETs some of the regional
staff of INGRA would be considered within the proposed OET management study
(para. 4.23).
3.02      The Directorate of Integration with States and Territories (DI) has
been restructured to provide normative support and technical assistance



-7-
to state land institutions. This is a function that the National Land
Administration Program requires from a federal institution and that its
predecessor department had started to develop through the 1DB-financed
project. The DI comprises (a) two departments of policies and programs,
which would consolidate, monitor and evaluate the state land administration
programs and related activities implemented by the various INCRA
directorates; and (b) a department providing technical and management support
to the state institutes, within the policies and objectives defined by the
DI. Proposals for further improvements in the internal structures of the DI
are discussed in Annex 2. These structures would be reviewed once the
proposed institutional study of the OETs and INCRA is completed (para.
4.23). The DI has transferred cooperativism and rural electrification
activities, which represented a large part of its previous operations, to the
Ministry of Agriculture, along with many of the staff which were employed in
those activities. Most of the remaining staff have worked on the
IDB-financed project. A few others have participated in the preparation of
the proposed project and would become the nucleus of the Departments of
Policies and Programs once staffing arrangements for the Directorate have
been finalized.
3.03      With the new emphasis on land tenure, and through some
simplifications of the land titling process, INCRA has conducted land
adjudication operations at an average rate of some 17 million ha per year
during the last five years, distributed about 250,000 titles nationwide in
1982, compared to some 100,000 in 1980 and 1981 and an average of about
25,000 titles per year before that. These figures include some 130,000
titles generated by the IDB-financed project. Such a massive increase in
title delivery may have been achieved in some cases at the expense of the
quality of supporting analysis and some leniency in the recognition of
doubtful private titles. However, the increasing acceptance of the very
principle of systematic land data collection and storage is a step forward in
Brazil's land administration and should gradually provide formal evidence of
the need for land redistribution.
Other Federal Institutions Involved in Land Surveying Activities
3.04      The Cartographic Commission of the Federal Planning Secretariat was
established in 1967 to develop national mapping norms, with the technical
support of an Executive Secretariat, and keep a public register of all
cartographic documents produced in the country. A special advisor to the
Minister of Land Affairs is also empowered to develop cartographic and
cadastral norms. Aerophotogrammetric operations are closely controlled by
the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces (EMFA).
B. State Land Institutions
3.05      All Northeast states, where the proposed project would concentrate
its efforts, already have state land institutions. However, as outlined
below, these institutions have considerably different features, in terms of
statute (some are semi-independent organizations with varying degrees of
autonomy, others are sub-divisions of a state secretariat), size and
experience. Piaui has a separate group within its land institution (INTERPI)
dealing with the Bank-financed Parnaiba Valley project. The Bahia Land
Institute (INTERBA) is particularly overstaffed, but measures are being taken
to transfer excess staff to other functions. It has up to now had little



-8-
involvement in IDB- and Bank-financed land titling operations.   The State of
Maranhao has not yet provided to its land institute (INTERMA) the equipment
and qualified staff it needs, notwithstanding the large land components of
ongoing rural development projects. Sergipe has recently created a land
institute (FUNDASE); its staff would need to be trained to modern methods.
Alagoas (CORAL), Pernambuco (Land Directorate of CISAGRO) and Rio Grande do
Norte (ITERN) are just starting to staff their institutes. Minas Gerais has
a well structured rural development institution (RURALMINAS) which also deals
with land matters. The Ceara land institute (ITERCE) has taken the lead in
social issues relating to land tenure, but its internal structures should be
revised to assume direct field responsibilities.   In Piaui and Paraiba
(FUNDAP), young and committed staff use, with the help of private land survey
firms, remote-sensing, computerized data storage, microfilms of land
registers and, in the case of the Bank-financed projects, ortho-photography
techniques. In most places, however, the states use outdated and expensive
topographical technology and have inadequate knowledge of which lands
actually belong to them or what the real tax value of private lands would
be.  The'r staff would require on-the-job training, along with the training
of trainers in INCRA. Because of the precarious financial situation of all
the states concerned, institutional strengthening and related investments
would rely mainly on federal funds to be channelled through the project.
3.06      All OETs are to be developed according to a basic model (Annex 1,
Attachments Cl, C2 and D) which would be adapted to each state, considering
its size, density of occupation, vegetal cover and existing land
institutions. The basic model of state land institutes comprises a central
unit which would be staffed and equipped to provide general coordination,
documentation, data processing, mapping and planning of land acquisition and
redistribution; and a gradually increasing number of regional units, each in
charge of the maintenance of cadastral data in a number of municipalities
where initial land surveys have been completed. The regional units would
evolve from mobile land adjudication teams (PF) consisting of an agronomist,
a lawyer, a topographer/photo interpreter, administrative agents and two to
five field topography teams of two or three members each, equipped with
transport and topographical equipment.  Each PF would have legal support from
a special land regularization commission (CE) comprising a lawyer and an
agronomist trained in surveying techniques.
3.07      State rural development councils being established for the local
planning of the Northeast Rural Development Program (para. 4.03) would
comprise a land sub-committee which would advise the governor on land
policies and review all land acquisition proposals. Northeast Program
operations would be administered by a state coordinating unit established in
each state (UTPNE).
C. Other Institutions Involved in Land Tenure Improvement
Land Registries
3.08      Land registries, or cartorios, are offices linked to the judiciary
power of the state. They are empowered to maintain, for a fee, an official
land register. Their performance has been poor. The cartorios suffer from
unqualified staff, improper documentation and practices, outdated
registration techniques and lack of government control. Law 6015 of



9-
December 13, 1973, requires that the land registry refer to the cadastral
record of a property wherever a government cadastre exists. In the absence
of such cadastres, the law, which is of utmost importance to their proper
maintenance, has not yet been put to the test.
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
3.09      Land regularization in the Northeast region would be linked with
the rural development activities reaching the same beneficiaries through the
Support Program for Small Rural Producers (PAPP) of the Northeast Rural
Development Program (para. 4.03). The Superintendency for the Development of
the Northeast (SUDENE), the regional coordinator of the program, is intended
to occupy a pivotal position between federal and state authorities in the
programming, budgeting, supervision and evaluation of the Northeast Program.
A Deputy Superintendency for Rural Development has been established within
SUDENE, with a Regional Land Coordination Unit (CFR) planned to be more
specifically responsible for linkages between rural development and land
activities.
Farmer Unions
3.10      Small-farmer unions grouped under the Agricultural Workers
Federations (FETAG) should be trained to provide legal assistance in land
matters to their members. The FETAGs have been promoted by the government as
a means tc support the rural social security scheme; however, they are
ill-equipped to provide a wider range of services to their members. They
should be distinguished from the National Agricultural Confederation (CNA),
which is dominated by the larger landowners.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
4.01      In March 1983, INCRA formally requested assistance from the Bank to
prepare and finance a land tenure improvement project with first emphasis on
the Northeast region. A similar request was later forwarded by INCRA to
IDB. Project appraisal was initiated by the Bank in June 1984 and was
completed in November 1984. The Interministerial Commission set up to
supervise the Northeast Development Program, the Minister of Land and the
Minister of Planning have confirmed the government's interest in the proposed
project.
B. Project Area
4.02      The project would be carried out in the nine States of Alagoas,
Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and
Sergipe in the Northeast of Brazil, plus the northern part of Minas Gerais.
The Northeast region has a total area of about 1.5 million km2 (18% of
Brazil's area) and some 35 million inhabitants (about 29% of the country's
population). Its various states are of substantially different size: the
State of Bahia covers about one third of the region and is some 25 times
larger than the State of Alagoas. The climate of the region varies from
humid tropical in most of Maranhao to more than semi-arid in the interior of
Bahia, Ceara and Piaui, with different and usually short periods suitable for
aerial photography (Chart 1). Variable topography, vegetal cover and



- 10 -
population densities affect the choice of land survey techniques and scales.
Land ownership distribution is particularly skewed in the Northeast (paras.
2.02 and 2.03). Most states have about half their population cz 'ass living
in rural areas, with one farm per about five to six persons. except for
Maranhao, which has a much higher proportion of rural population- More than
five million migrants have left the Northeast during the last 20 to 25 years.
4.03      An important feature of the project area is the proposed 15-year
Northeast Regional Development Program, intended to integrate a variety of
existing programs into sectoral projects in health, education, federal
irrigation and, through the PAPP, assistance to small farmers. The PAPP
would be implemented through state-specific projects in priority areas
identified by the state authorities and would comprise (a) water resources
development, including small-scale irrigation schemes, inland fish production
and community water supply; (b) agricultural research and extension;
(c) agricultural credit; (d) marketing services; and (e) support to small
rural communities, including the financing of some small infrastructure.
Land tenure improvements to be achieved by the proposed project and rural
development activities of the PAPP would enhance each other's benefits.
4.04      The proposed land tenure project would cover about one-fifth of the
Northeast region within about three and a half years. This is in keeping
with technical conclusions that land adjudication would need to be completed
within a period varying between 10 years in the smaller states to 15 years in
the larger ones to avoid abrupt changes in staffing requirements and to
complete the land cadastre within a reasonable time. The need to develop the
institutions of each state and the geographical spread of the Northeast rural
development projects which the land project would support are factors which
have contributed to the decision to distribute project activities among all
the states of the region. The specific areas to be attended by the project
are shown in Maps # IBRD 18685 and I IBRD 18686 along with the areas covered
by land tenure improvement components of ongoing IDB and bank projects.
These areas have climatic and geographic features as varied as those of the
overall Northeast region, except for a higher than average population density
(with average lots of less than 30 ha per occupant according to INCRA/IDB
experience), reflecting Northeast program objectives of attending
smaller-farmer areas.
C. Project Objectives and Strategy,
Objectives
4.05      In keeping with the objectives of the National Land Administration
Program, the proposed project would aim to extend the benefits of secure land
ownership to a larger number of small farmers and improve the government's
ability to administer land resources and formulate land sector policies. A
large-scale land project, such as the one proposed, would better focus
political and financial support for such improvements than small land
components built into separate rural development projects. Given the
requirements of the Northeast region and of the rural development projects to
be implemented in that region, the project would achieve the first objective
of land tenure improvement by (a) adjudicating some 31 million ha of rural
land in the Northeast region in areas outside those already attended by
ongoing projects, within a period of about three and a half years, to
identify and delimit all private and public properties; (b) regularizing the



- 1} -
tenure of all rightful occupants; (c) redistributing lands belonging to or
acquired by the government to a number of presently landless farmers or
farmers whose excessively small properties need to be reallocated; and
(d) confirming the titles of all legitimate land owners and providing titles
to beneficiaries of land regularization, reallocation or redistribution
operations. This is expected to lift a major obstPcle to the access to
official credit for at least 200,000 small farmers, increase production and
employment on up to 1 million ha of presently underutilized or idle lands and
help resolve latent and open land conflicts. The second objective, of
improving government institutions, would be achieved by establishing
cadastral data banks in each Northeast state for the legal, fiscal and
economic administration of private and public lands; strengthening land
institutions in staff and equipment; and implementing a variety of legal,
institutional and socioeconomic studies. The feasibility of achieving
project objectives within the proposed time frame is discussed in paras. 5.12
and 5.13.
4.06        The project would aim at giving first priority to areas selected
for assistance through the Northeast Rural Development Program, while
recognizing the need, especially during the first years, for land tenure
activities to be (a) initiated prior to the implementation of specific rural
development plans in some of the program areas; (b) geographically more
concentrated than other rural development activities; and (c) responsive to
other land tenure requirements of the states, within the same institutional
and technological framework.
Strategy
4.07      The project would seek to establish a strong land administration
with unified policies, legislation and procedures. To this purpose, the
project would (a) define the respective functions of INCRA and the OETs;
(b) help INCRA adjust from its past executive activities to its new normative
functions; (c) develop standards which would ensure the integration of
project activities within the national context of land administration;
Cd) introduce sound, cost-effective management and periodic programming in
all agencies of the SFN; (e) contribute to reinforcing inter-agency
collaboration through a combination of contractual and informal linkages;
(f) expand the use of modern technologies compatible with the volume of land
activities in a country the size of Brazil; (g) help the OETs and INCRA
adjust their structures and staffing to the new methods and objectives, with
particular attention, where required, to a programmed reallocation of
excessive staff; and (h) finance intensive staff training and a number of
studies, which would identify means to overcome key institutional and legal
obstacles to efficient land administration; improve the knowledge of the
socioeconomic background of land activities; and help formulate future land
projects. Within the same principle of unity, the project would allow for
the incorporation of ongoing Bank- and IDB-financed land operations into OET
activities. In the past, IDB operations have relied on different survey
technologies and land acquisition methods, and have not imposed institutional
training or a data updating system. Steps have been taken under recent calls
for tenders under the IDB-financed project to harmonize its procedures with
those proposed under this project.



- 12 -
4.08      The adjudication process would be systematically applied to all
parcels within a group of neighboring municipalities to ensure maximum
publicity, make the best use of the knowledge of local inhabitants and
minimize unit costs. A review of all deeds recorded in the land registries
would be followed by on-the-ground adjudication supported by aerial
photogrammetry. The participation of right-holders would be compulsory. No
fees would be imposed on them. However, the monumentation of parcel
vertices, which is not compulsory, would be carried out by the owners (or
tenants) who wish to do so at their own cost. Disputes arising from
adjudication would initially be determined by the administration officials.
All information generated by the adjudication process would be entered into a
cadastral data bank system which would provide the government with a
comprehensive and permanent land administration tool with multiple legal,
financial and development functions. It would ensure the publicity of land
ownership and transactions that provides the legal basis of the titles
produced.
Support for Land Redistribution Objectives of the Northeast Program
4.09      In order to avoid strong political reactions (especially from the
largest landowners) to the proposed land tenure improvement process, INCRA
originally recommended that emphasis in the early phases of operation be
concentrated on land titling, which has had the support of all landowners in
previous IDB- or Bank-financed projects and is the main objective of the
proposed project. However, SUDENE, in the preparation of the Northeast
program, has established relatively ambitious targets for the expropriation
and redistribution of underutilized private properties. Expropriated land-
owners would be compensated at little immediate cost to the government
through Agrarian Debt Bonds (TDA), which carry full monetary correction plus
interest. State authorities have favored land purchases, which have a lower
political cost than expropriations and which the state would negotiate using
funds from federal programs, such as the State Land Funds. The federal
government prefers that land be acquired through 'negotiated expropriations,'
which, like summary expropriations, would allow payment in TDA rather than
cash but would avoid lengthy judicial confrontations on the actual value of
the land. Brazilian law requires that all expropriations for redistribution
purposes be implemented by INCRA. Agreement has been reached between INCRA,
SUDENE and each Northeast state on the funding procedures and preferred
methods of land acquisition. The target would be to have about 7UZ of the
acquisitions in each state achieved through expropriation, the remainder
being purchased. Assurances were received from the Borrower that it would
cause each of the states in the project area to take all actions necessary to
acquire land in a timely manner to meet the land redistribution targets
defined in the operational agreements signed between INCRA, SUDENE and those
states.
4.10      The ten project states plan to redistribute to landless farmers
some 3 million ha acquired by the states or INCRA through purchase or
expropriation (Annex 1, Attachment H), within the conditions established in
che -Estatuto da Terra." This is not a direct component of the project but
would be supported by it through the establishment of special land
restructuration units at each OET headquarters, staffed to (a) assess the
capability and potential use of lands proposed to be acquired and
redistributed; (b) select potential beneficiaries; and (c) plan and supervise



- 13 -
the redistribution of the land once it has been acquired. Furthermore, the
preliminary identification of areas to be acquired would rely on prior
adjudication, whether under this project or previous projects. Land
acquisition is a major goal of the Northeast program since there is little
probability that significant amounts of unoccupied public lands with a
reasonable agricultural potential would be identified in most of the
Northeast region by the land project. Land acquisitions would be financed
exclusively with government resources, allocated either to INCRA or to the
states. Assurances were received from INCRA that beneficiaries of the land
redistribution activities would be charged the full value of the land they
are allocated (including improvements specifically allocated to each
beneficiary), determined in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, under terms of payment providing for monetary correction and interest
in line with those prevailing for agricultural investment credit for small
farmers in the region, and a repayment period of not less than 15 years.
4.11      Implementation of land acquisition programs compatible with the
needs of each state rural development program would be sought as conditions
of the corresponding Bank-financed projects. The infrastructure and
agricultural support services required in the areas redistributed following
land acquisition and reallocation would be financed under those projects.
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.12      The project supports the Bank's objectives in Brazil of helping
promote adjustments required for improved agricultural performance and
assisting the country's poverty alleviation efforts. It would help establish
land tenure conditions that would enable more small farmers to respond to and
benefit from improved incentives, access to credit, and other policy and
institutional measures which other Bank loans to the agricultural sector are
seeking to promote. Its geographic focus on the Northeast region, where it
will be complemented by Bank-supported rural development projects, would
intensify Bank support for the government's efforts to increase the
productivity and incomes of the poorest segment of Brazil's population. The
project would also assist the development of the country's land institutions,
expand the use of modern, cost-effective surveying techniques, and introduce
new land data processing technologies. Considering the nature of the
project, financing from commercial sources is unlikely to be available. The
project is expected to be cofinanced by IDB.
E. Detailed Project Features
Aerial Photogrammetry
4.13      Aerial photography operations would cover some 56 million ha
divided into 72 blocks to (a) attend to the needs of this project, including
a substantial reserve owing to the configuration of the limits of the
municipalities to be adjudicated; and (b) prepare the way for uninterrupted
land surveys beyond the time frame of the present project. Some
6.5 million ha would be photographed at a scale of 1:60,000; some
45 million ha at a scale of 1:30,000; and the remaining 4.5 million ha,
located in areas of denser land occupation, at a scale of about 1:15,000.
The basic photographic outputs would be negatives, diapositives and contact
prints.



- 14 -
4.14      Ground control, aerial triangulation and mapping activities leading
to the production of orthophotomaps or line-maps at thLee times the scale of
the photographs would cover all photographed areas. Insofar as possible, all
ground points against which the photographs and subsequent field operations
would be referenced would have to be pre-sigmialized. Ground control
operations could be carried out using conventional geodetic methods, an
airborne inertial system, a Doppler Transit Satellite system or a Global
Positioning system. Aerial triangulation would be carried out using
automatic coordinate recording devices and bundle block adjustment programs.
Land Tenure Identification
4.15      The identification of land tenure conditions in a total area of
about 31 million ha, would involve (a) the production of microfilms of all
land registry documents of the area covered, to analyze the line of
conveyance of land properties; (b) widespread notification of the
government's intention to review and regularize ownership rights in the areas
selected for land adjudication; (c) field surveys leading to the delimitation
of private and public properties; (d) the identification of all tenants and
occupants established within these properties and evaluation of their claims;
and (e) a first estimate of the land potential and value, including a census
of the infrastructure and perennial crops found on the land. Microfilming of
all land registry documents would be provided by INCRA at no incremental cost
to the project.
Cadastre Implementation and Titling
4.16      All geographical and literal information obtained through the
preceding stages would be digitalized for computerized storage and processing
and the production of about 1 million title documents for rural properties.
About 30% of these would be recognition documents for valid titles issued by
past administrations. Data obtained through the cadastre establishment
process would be regularly updated, and data pertaining to the public domain
would be made available against a fee to all public and private users.
Support for Land Restructuring
4.17      The project would finance the (a) technical (land capability
assessment) and economic (potential use) studies for the selection of some
3 million ha to be acquired and/or redistributed by the government to some
130,000 beneficiaries; (b) physical planning and temporary administration of
areas to be redistributed or reallocated; (c) delimitatiou, demarcation and
titling of the resulting plots; and (d) contracting and supervision of
corresponding infrastructure works. The actual works would be financed with
PAPP/community development funds or funds from other planned sectoral
projects. The site-specific technical and economic studies referred to above
would be used by the OETs to develop general land capability assessment norms
to be used for zoning purposes.
Institutional Strengthening
4.18      Buildings.  Most OETs are in the process of organization or
consolidation and lack adequate buildings. The project would finance (a) the
construction in each state of a building where OET staff and equipment would
be located, with the exception of Minas Gerais, which already has a building



- 15 -
adequate for project purposes, requiring only minor modifications and some
furniture; and (b) the rental of office space for the regional units of the
OETs (included in land tenure identification overheads).
4.19      Equipment.  Each OET woulJ-1 be equipped to process its cadastre and
titles to ensure administrative efficiency and the legality of the titles
produced. The project would finance the acquisition of (a) electronic data
processing equipment, including ten sets of data digitalization and
processing units, 12 complementary graphical units, and corresponding
software and maintenance; (b) some 530 cars to meet the needs of 221 field
survey teams, 72 PFs and regional units and OET headquarters land
restructuration and administration units; (c) a variety of minor
topographical equipment for field and regional units; and (d) office
equipment (and operating expenditures in a gradually decreasing proportion)
at OET headquarters and regional units.
4.20      Staff Training and Technical Assistance to the OETs. The
on-the-job training of OET field staff would be provided mainly through the
integration of experienced surveyors contracted from private firms within the
=land adjudication teams during the first years of project implementation.
The project would further finance the training of some 3UW topographers, 300
field technicians and 100 agronomists (involved in land restructuring anm the
operations of future regional offices) during a 2 1/2-month period each.
Some 60 data processing and mapping specialists would be trained in the use
of the specific equipment and software of the project, mainly by the
enterprise supplying the equipment. If and as required, this training would
be preceded by four months of training in data bank management at a local
university. Management training would be provided by specialized private
firms, according to a program to be defined through the proposed
institutional studies (para. 4.23), to some 80 regional office chiefs, about
80 to 100 senior staff of the ten OETs and some 10 INCRA staff administering
the project. All above figures assume a drop-out rate of about 10 to 15Z.
Field staff and agronomists would be trained in topography, photogrammetry
and cadastral legislation. Management training would be complemented with a
variety of seminars and a few visits to similar land administrations abroad.
Some 15 technical and institutional specialists of INCRA would provide both
programmed and ad-hoc technical assistance to the OETs. Training of
magistrates, state lawyers and farmer union staff would be financed through
the various training funds allocated to proposed Northeast rural development
projects. INCRA has prepared a technical training program acceptable to the
Bank, for INCRA and CET staff.
Project Administration
4.21      Incremental administration costs resulting from the implementation
of the project would be financed by the project. Those would mainly include
part of the administration costs of the OETs and the salaries and travel
costs of 10 DI state program coordinators. The cost of project monitoring at
the field level by the OETs and at the OET headquarters level by INCRA and
the OETs jointly are included in the admiaistration overheads covered in this
section.



- 16 -
Studies
4.22      The project would finance the implementation of a number of
institutional, legal and socioeconomic studies which would help INCKA and the
OETs gradually improve the efficiency of land operations. Assurances were
received from INCRA that (a) detailed terms of reference for cadastre
integration, legal and socioeconomic studies would be presented to the Bank
for review not later than six months after loan signature; (b) the studies
would be contracted not later than nine months after loan signature; and
(c) their conclusions and recommendations would be furnished to the Bank.
4.23      Institutional studies would consist of (a) a study by independent
consultants of the ways to improve OET management structures, procedures and
regulations; implications of such improvements on INCRA functions and
structures; and a detailed review of past INCRA and state land activities and
experience, particularly within the IDB-financed land project (Annex 3, for
proposed terms of reference); and (b) a study of the means of achieving the
gradual integration of the modern cadastre produced by the project with the
traditional INCRA cadastre to improve the procedures for the establishment of
the basis of land taxation and INCRA's capacity to challenge the tax
declarations of landowners; and of the feaeibility of unifying the rural and
urban cadastres of Brazil.
4.24      Legal studies would, in order to strengthen the legal value of the
titles produced by the OETs and reduce the judiciary delays which could
hamper part of the adjudication process, review (a) the legislation on land
adjudication operations, to define clear procedures for the analysis of the
titles and rights of absentee owners, tighten the review procedures of all
claims to landownership, and limit the period prescribed for lodging
objections to the adjudication decisions to a reasonable time after
completion of land adjudication; (b) cadastral legislation, to ensure and
reinforce, as necessary, the linkages between state cadastres and land
registries; and (c) court procedures, to simplify and accelerate the judicial
handling of claims not resolved through administrative adjudication
procedures and of other land conflicts. The legal studies should result in
clear recommendations to the various legislations on the modifications which
would be required.
4.25      Socioeconomic studies would review and make recommendations on
(a) the present tenure conditions within large- and medium-size farms, the
impact of Brazilian tenancy laws on such conditions, the motivation of owners
to sell or lease their lands, the motivation of tenants to invest, and
related points which could help improve tenancy and production conditions;
(b) the services provided traditionally by large landowners to their tenants
and means to provide them to newly "franchised farmers; (c) land taxation
principles and procedures, and the institutions which would determine and
collect the taxes; and (d) the impact of various government programs and
fiscal incentives on land tenure structures. The analysis of the PRUALCOOL
program and sugar subsidies would rely mainly on the findings of ongoing
studies by the Joao Pinheiro Foundation and further studies funded under
other Bank-financed projects.



- 17 -
4.26      The project would also finance the evaluation by independant
consultants of the performance and progress of the ten OETs, INCRA and other
entities involved in the execution of the project (para. 5.11).
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIO1
A. Institutional Responsibilities
Federal Responsibilities
5.01      Practically all land operations would be financed with federal
resources and be subject to federal legislation, giving considerable say to
the Brasilia authorities on the policies and budgetary allocations of the
project. An Interministerial Commission--chaired by the Secretary General of
the Ministry of Interior and comprising representatives from SEPLAN, the
Ministry of Agriculture, MIRAD, the Ministry of Finance and SUDENE--has been
established as a forum within which all Northeast project proposals,
including the land tenure improvement project, are discussed, adjusted to the
budgetary envelope and submitted for collegial approval.
5.02      At the federal level, INCRA would (a) administer the project; (b)
establish operational norms and provide technical assistance to the state
land institutes; and (c) contract aerophotogrammetric operations and studies;
produce microfilms of all land registry archives; acquire land with federal
funds; and, later, establish and maintain a central cadastral data bank.
W'-ithin INCRA, the DI would be responsible for all above activities, including
similar activities stemming from the IDB-financed project. Under the
coordination of the DI, the DF would acquire lands identified for that
purpose by the OETs. Eventually, the DC would administer the central data
bank where state level data would be integrated. The DC would make all its
statistical information on areas under adjudication available to the OETs.
The Banlc would rely substantially on INCRA for the supervision of most
state-level project activities. Assurances were received from INCRA that the
DI would receive full assistance and cooperation from the other INCRA
directorates in the implementation of the project. (A draft resolution to
that effect is provided in Annex 4.)
State Responsibilities
5.03      Most project activities would be planned and implemented at the
state level, mainly through the ten OETs. Their PFs would, in each land
adjudication area, (a) review all land registry documents, cadastral
documents provided by INCRA and documents presented by the claimants to
landownership; (b) conduct field surveys to delimit private and public
properties and collect data on each property and its occupants; and (c) plot
on the maps provided by INCRA the property boundaries agreed to with their
respective claimants. Simultaneously, the CEs would decide on the legality
of the various ownership claims. The PFs would also, on the basis of
physical and economic data they have obtained, make a preliminary selection
and valuation of properties which could be acquired by the government for
redistribution. A list of project executing and collaborating agencies is
provided in Table 1.



- 18 -
5.04      The OET headquarters would (a) establish, administer and regularly
update a computerized data bank where all the cadastral information generated
by the PFs would be stored and processed; (b) produce title documents for all
recognized landowners; (c) conduct complementary studies leading to the final
selection of areas to be acquired and/or redistributed; (d) plan and
supervise the implementation of land redistribution and related
infrastructure investments with assistance, as required, from specialized
state agencies; (e) ensure the temporary administration of lands acquired by
the project, until the redistribution operations are completed; and
(f) administer land operations undertaken in their state under other ongoing
Bank or IDB-financed projects, incorporating all data produced by such
projects into the data banks developed under this project. This model
assumes that all photogrammetric operations would be entrusted to private
firms.
B. Implementation Arrangements
5.05      Project implementation procedures and the mutual obligations of the
main institutions involved in the project are the subject of agreements
signed in January 1985 between INCRA, SUDENE and each of the states, on the
basis of a common model shown in Annex 1. Attachments to the agreements
define (a) the areas to be flown over and adjudicated in each state every
year (Attachment A); (b) the structures (Attachment Cl), basic staff
requirements (Attachment C2), recruitment program (Attachment D) and salary
targets (Attachment B) of each OET, including the rules for gradually
increasing state financing of those expenditures (Attachment E); (c) the
technical specifications of the state data banks and corresponding equipment
requirements (Attachments F and G); and (d) land acquisition and
redistribution targets, reflecting PAPP objectives (Attachment I). OET staff
would be recruited through objective selection criteria to be monitored by
INCRA. Assurances were received from the Borrower and INCRA that SUDENE or
INCRA would not (a) modify without Bank agreement any provisions of the
operational agreements with the seven states where Bank funds would be
disbursed (para. 6-07); and (b) modify the agreements with the other three
states within the project area in a way which would depart from the technical
and policy criteria and financial and institutional agreements established
for the project.
Programming and Government Financing of Project Activities
5.06      The operational ,:ramework of the proposed land activities in the
Northeast region has to be considered in association with the wider framework
envisaged for the overall Northeast Rural Development Program,
notwithstanding the fact that the land project would be f4lly justified in
its own right. Programming and budgeting of project activities would be done
on an annual basis, based on the pluri-annual targets defined in the
attachments mentioned in the previous paragraph. Annual programs would be
first determined at the state level, between the respective OET and UTPNE,
and would then be reviewed jointly by INCRA and SUDENE for consolidation
within the Northeast Program budget. Field cadastral operations and land
redistribution activities are considered to be one-time investment operations
and would, therefore, be subject to full federal financing. Initially,
current expenditures of the operational divisions of the OETs would also be
funded from federal sources. The agreements between INCRA and each state



- 19 -
reflect the project's objective to gradually transfer to the states the
burden of OET current expenditures, in order to Increase the states'
commdtment to the longer term project objectives and, to some degree, to
decrease their dependence on the federal government. However, as long as
present fiscal policies are not modified, the states' own resources will
remadn extremely scarce, obliging them to continue seeking federal funding.
Institutional Development
5.07      OETs In the process of being established would imnediately recruit
and train the field staff necessary for the proposed land adjudication
program. Overstaffed OETs are already taking measures to have their excess
staff transferred to other government agencies. Staff selected to remain
witbin the OETs, originally trained to older techniques, would be provided
the same training as newcomers. This would also apply to regional INCRA
staff transferred to the OETs. Ongoing 1DB- and Bank-financed operations
provide most states with a first and successful experience In such
institution-building and demonstrate that the recruitment and training
targets of this project, though more ambitious, are feasible. Professionals
with the required profile are available in Brazil and could be brought into
the land institutions with proper financial and professional motivation. The
salary structure envisaged in Annex 1, Attachment B, is believed to provide
adequate financial incentives. Indicative staffiag objectives shows in
Annex 1 Attachment C2 should be achieved by the end of the project in
agreement with the schedule shown In Attachment D. Assurances were received
from INCRA that (a) consultants acceptable to the Bank would be recruited
under terms of reference described In Annex 3 to assist the states in their
obligation under their agreements with INCRA to prepare proposals for
cost-efficient OET management structures staffing and methods within the
timetable established in those agreements; (b) it would send the findings of
the study to the Bank for review and com ent prior to the implementation of
its recommendations; and (c) the resulting recommendations would be put into
effect promptly upon receipt of the Bank's comments.
Farmer Involvement
5.08      The land adjudication, in order to be fair, efficient and
successful, would require tapping the knowledge of ar'ta farmers, obtaining
their involvement in the admidnistrative process and assisting them in
learning and defending their rights as occupants or owners. The agreements
between INCRA and the states require the latter to provide the necessary
legal assistance to the FETAGs, with funds originating from the PAPP, to
(a) promote farmer involvement In the land adjudication activities;
(b) ensure the widest possible publicity concerning these activitfes prior to
their initiation and after their completion; and (c) provide legal assistance
to small farmers with grievances concerning the adjudication procedures and
results, through channels independent from the land administration.
Cadastre Management
5.09      Land cadastres with some degree o' uniformdty among the states in
processing and presentation are indispensible for all facets of land
admdnistration. Their Initial processing and updating should be done by the
OETs In view of their legal responsibi lty for the land titles they produce.



- 20 -
Digitalization of literal data collected through field surveys could be
initially entrusted to state data processing agencies, on the condition that
these agencies not be authorized to publish or release any of the resulting
data. As the central, normative agency, and in accordance with the timetable
agreed upon during negotiations, shown in Annex 5, INCRA would define the
minimum capacity, basic input and output formats, and corresponding equipment
and software of the state data banks. Cadastral and tenure improvements
achieved through surveying, redistribution and titling alone would be
gradually lost if parallel measures were not taken to ensure regular
monitoring of future changes in land ownership, occupation and use, mainly
through an institutionalized link between the existing land registers and the
state cadastre systems. The production of computerized titling documents by
the project should help simplify and improve registration procedures and thus
reduce the burden of the land registries during the peak title production
period of the project. INCRA and the OETs would have to monitor closely the
application by the land registries of the simplified title registration
procedures and of Law 6015 (para. 3.08) and, on the basis of such monitoring
and complementary legal studies, recommend to their respective legislatu_^s
the passage of any further enforcing legislation that may be required.
Land Acquisition and Redistribution
5.10      The agreements to be signed between INCRA and the states include a
detailed description of the selection and acquisition procedures of lands to
be redistributed to presently landless farmers and of the role of each
institution in redistribution planning and implementation (Annex 1, Ninth
clause). These procedures, if adequately implemenred, should ensure the
application of objective criteria to the choice and determination of the
market value of the lands proposed to be acquired. The physical planning of
plots and selection of prospective beneficiaries would be done by the OETs
along guidelines similar to those developed and satisfactorily implemented
within the context of Bank-financed projects by the State of Piaui
(Loan 2015-BR) and by INCRA for its new settlements (Loan 2353-BR).
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.11      Monitoring of field activities would be implemented by each OET on
the basis of a general model. INCRA intends to develop such a model,
acceptable to the Bank, within 90 days of the signature of the agreements
between INCRA and the states. It would permit an aggregation of each
institution's monitoring results for inter-state cost and efficiency
comparisons and overall program implementation eval'-..:ion by INCRA. Field
checks to be implemented as part of the monitoring of adjudication operations
would particularly verify the ownership claim analysis process for the
largest farms of the region. Progress reports of project activities would be
prepared by INCRA on a six-monthly basis through a consolidation of
monitoring reports .it receives from each state and promptly forwarded to the
Bank for review. Project activities would be further subject to two kinds of
external evaluation. An evaluation of the performance and progress of the
land tenure system would be undertaken by independent consultants hired by
INCRA. The OET management study would provide most of the required base-line
data for the evaluation of the system. The impact of land activities on
their target population and on rural development activities would be
evaluated in each state by SUDENE under the respective Northeast projects,



- 21 -
with PAPP financing. The initial cadastral surveys would produce most of the
baseline data for the impact evaluation. Preliminary system and (insofar as
they are available) impact evaluations of this and previous land projects
would be carried out when half of the loan amount will have been disbursed,
and updated during the last year of project implementation. The results
would be available prior to preparation and appraisal of any follow-up land
tenure project in the Northeast region.
D. Implementation Schedule
5.1Z      The project is expected to be achieved within a period of three and
a half years in order to provide timely support to the parallel and extensive
rural development operations in the Northeast. If properly managed, the
project could reasonably be achieved within such a period, considering
(a) the more efficient methods being introduced by the project; (b) its
emphasis on further gradual but substantial strengthening of the land
institutions, already initiated during project preparation; and (c) the
experience generated by the IDB-financed project (which promises to be
completed about a year ahead of its four-year schedule). Furthermore,
Brazilian authorities are particularly interested in completing the proposed
work program within that time. However, there is no prior experience on
similar projects against which to compare the proposed implementation
schedule.
5.13      The agreements signed between INCkA and the states include detailed
attachments showing the proposed timing of adjudication operations in each
municipality to be covered by the project.  These chronograms allow for the
risk of delays in aerial photography due to climatic uncertainties,
especially in the state of Maranhao, where climatic conditions are most
difficult. The few areas selected for immediate adjudication already have
the necessary cartographic documents.  To achieve project targets, the OETs
would immediately initiate field activities, while undertaking wider planning
and institutional reorganization activities which would be completed within
the project's life span.  however, training activities and studies would be
concentrated in the first two years of the project. During that period, OET
staff would receive the support of private surveying firms and of experienced
INCRA staff seconded from INCRA's regional directorates for the
implementation of field activities. A summarized bar-chart of the main
project activities is given in Chart 2. The schedule shows an even
distribution of aerial photogrammetry and corresponding land survey
operations over the three years of the project. Year U operations correspond
to activities contracted in the latter part of 1984 by INCRA to private
photogrammetry firms and initial training of UET staff. Map # IBRD 1b685
shows the yearly distribution of aerial photogrammetry operations. Map
# IBRD 18686 shows the yearly distribution of land adjudication operations.
VI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
6.01      The total project cost over the three and one-half year
implementation period (1985-1988) is estimated at US$250.5 million, which



- 22 -
includes physical contingencies equivalent to 12.0X1/ of the baseline 'ssts,
and price contingencies equivalent to 9.2% of baseline costs plue physical
contingencies2/.  All project costs, including related administration
overhead, but excluding cadastre maintenance costs, are creating assets in
the form of new state cadastres and a higher agricultural production
potential achieved through more equitable land distribution. They are,
therefore, considered as capital expenditures. Baseline costs, estimated at
October 1984 prices, reflect the various procurement assumptions detailed in
paras. 6.04 and 6.05. The costs of year 0 photogrammetric operations are
based on the actual contracts already signed by INCRA. The estimated foreign
exchange component is US$Y5.8 million, or about 38% of total project costs.
Project costs include about US$7.5 million of readily identifiable taxes.
The project cost summary follows in Table 6.1; the yearly phasing is given in
Table 2, and the distribution per state is shown in Table 3.
B. Financing
6.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$100.0 million would finance 42Z of
project costs, net of taxes and excluding the acquisition of data processing
equipment. This would cover all of the foreign exchange component of
expenditures (excluding data processing equipment) incurred in the States of
Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe
and in the various studies, and about US$28.1 million of local costs.
Expenses to be incurred by the government for the acquisition of lands are
excluded from the project. The balance of project financing would be
provided by the federal government, mainly through FINSOCIAL funds (generated
through a special tax on industrial value-added), probably complemented by a
loan from IDB, which is expected to participate in the financing of
activities implemented in the States of Alagoas, Minas Gerais and Paraiba,
which have a total cost of about US$54.6 million. The states would finance a
small but gradually increasing segment of OET current expenditures. A
financing plan is shown in Table 4. The loan would be for 15 years,
including 3 years of grace.
6.03      In vilew of the climatic constraints limiting the periods during
which aerial pictures can be taken, and to ensure timely and effective
project implementation, aerial photogrammetry operations in areas to be
adjudicated during the first year of project implementation have been
initiated under advance contracting in the last quarter of 1984. Their cost
is included in total project costs.
1, Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs at 20% for land
tenure identification, buildings and data processing equipment; 10% for
other equipment and ground control operations; and 5% for the remaining
components.
2/   Price contingencies were calculated in US dollars at 5% in 1985, 7.5% in
1986 and 8Z in 1987 and 1988 for all project costs. They assume that
the exchange rate of the Brazilian cruzeiro will be periodically
adjusted to compensate for any domestic inflation above world inflation
rates.



-23-
Table 6.1: Total Project Costs
(US$ '000)
Total
Baseline   Foreign
Project Component              Local   Foreign    Total       Cost     Exchange
Aerial Photogrammetry
Aerial photography            2,500     7,600    10,100       5         75%
Ground control, aerial       23,550    43,750    67,300      33         65%
triangulation and mapping
Land Tenure Identification    50,400      8,900    59,300      29         15%
Cadastre Implementation         9,300     3,100    12,400       6         25%
and Titling
Support for Land
Restructuring                15,450     3,850    19,300       9         20%
Institutional Strengthening
Buildings                     3,350     1,450     4,800       2         30%
Data processing equipment    2,400      3,300     5,700       3         60%
Other equip. and furniture   6,400      5,200    11,60U       6         45Z
Staff training and
technical assistance       3,150      1,050     4,200      2          25%
Project Administration          8,700         -     8,700       4          O0
Studies                         1,250       150     1,400       1         10%
Total Baseline Cost           12b,450    78,350   204,800    100
Physical contingencies       15,200     9,400    24,600      12.0
Price contingencies         13,050      8,050    21,100      10.3
Total Project Cost            154,700    95,800   250,500                 38X



- 24 -
C. Procurement
6.04      Photogrammetric operations initiated in 1984 (about US$13.3
million) have been procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) open to
foreign firms. Subsequent cartography operations (US$68.3 million) would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). The corresponding
aerial photography component (US$9.6 million, divided among some 30 tenders),
for which ample domestic contracting capability exists, would be procured
through LCB from local firms exclusively, at EMFA's request on security
grounds.
6.05      Land tenure identification, cadastre implementation, titling, land
restructuring operations, project administration and most staff training,
totalling US$127.0 million, would be implemented directly by the staff of
INCRA and the OETs, which carry legal responsibility for the completeness and
correctness of the documents resulting from the adjudication process.
Initial assistance from private firms in land tenure identification (US$3.5
million) would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures,
acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms would not be excluded but are not
likely to be interested given the small size of individual contracts and the
language requirements. OET buildings and cars (US$18.6 million) would be
procured in each state through LCB procedures, defined by Federal Decree-
Law 200, para. 67, which are acceptable to the Bank. Minor office equipment
(US$1.5 million) would be acquired through prudent local shopping.
Electronic data processing equipment required for cadastral purposes (US$7.1
million) would be procured through the local representative of the main
international producer of such equipment and would not be eligible for Bank
financing. Assurances were received from INCRA that it would (a) furnish to
the Bank, not later than 90 days after project signature, a proposal,
satisfactory to the Bank, on the technical and institutional issues related
to the establishment of state data banks, including the specifications of the
equipment to be utilized; and (b) not later than April 30, 1986, acquire this
equipment and have each state install it.
6.06      Consultancy services (totalling about 220 man-months) for technical
assistance to the OETs and studies would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines, at base costs of about US$7,000 per month, of which about 70%
would be fees and 30% other costs. For all aerial photogrammetry contracts,
purchases of cars and all other contracts exceeding US$500,000, the Bank
would review and approve standard procurement documents and specifications
prior to bidding, and bid evaluations and award recommendations prior to
signing contracts. Procurement arrangements are detailed in Table 6.2 below.
D. Disbursements
6.07      Bank funds would be disbursed only against expenditures made with
respect to the States of Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio
Grande do Norte and Sergipe, and against 1OOZ of all studies.  The proceeds
of the Bank loan would be disbursed on the basis of 80% of the cost, which is
net of duties and taxes, of photogrammetric services acquired through ICB
procedures. This excludes aerial photography services and electronic



- 25 -
Table 6.2: Procurement Arrangements
(US million)
Total Project       States in which Bank    Total
Disburses
ICB  LCB   Other    ICB    LCB    Other
Aerial photography                     -    11.3    -       -      8.4      -         11.3
-     (0)      -         (0)
Ground control, aerial triang.,       68.3  11.6    -       52.6  7.9                 79.9
mapping                                                  (42.1) (0)       -        (42.1)
Land tenure identification             -     3.5   75.7    -       2.7      60.8      79.2
-    (1.4)    (30.4)   (31.8)
Cadastre implementation and            -     -      14.1    -       -       10.5      14.1
titling                                                   -      -        (5.3)    (5.3)
Support for land restructuring         -     -      22.5    -      -        17.4      22.5
-      -        (8.7)    (8.7)
Buildings                              -     5.9    -               4.8     -          5.9
-      ,(2.4)    -       (2.4)
Data processing equipment              -     -       7.1    -      -         5.1       7.1
_ -     (0)       (0)
Other equipment and furniture          -    12.7    1.5    -       11.0      1.1      14.2
-     (5.5)    (0.6)    (6.1)
Staff training and T.A.                -     -       4.6    -      -.        4.0       4.6
_      _        (2.0)    (2.0)
Project administration                 -     -      10.1    -       -        8.0      10.1
_      _        (0)      (0)
Studies                                -     1.6    -       -       1.6     -          1.6
-     (1.6)    -         (1.6)
Total                      68.3  46.6  135.6   52.6   36.4    106.9    250.5
(42.1) (10.9)   (47.0)  (100)
Note: The figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be disbursed
by the Bank.



-26 -
aquipment, against which no disbursements would be made. No disbursements
gould be made against project administration staff. Disbursements for
buildings, cars, travel for staff training and technical assistance purposes,
land tenure identification, land restructuring, cadastre implementation and
titling would be made at a uniform rate of 50%, under Statements of
Expenditures initiated by the various executing agencies and certified by
INCRA. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank, but
would be retained by INCRA and would be made available for inspection by the
Bank during project supervision missions. Standard documentation covering
aerial photogrammetry services, buildings, vehicles and consultant services
would be submitted to the Bank. In the absence of a standard disbursement
profile, disbursements are expected to occur over about four years (para.
5.12). An estimated schedule of Bank disbursements is shown in Table 5. The
Closing Date of the Loan would be September 30, 1988.
6.08      Retroactive financing of up to US$7.0 million is considered for
costs incurred after January 1, 1985, for (a) land tenure identification and
project administration activities of the OETs; (b) staff training; and
(c) the acquisition of some cars and equipment.
6.09      In order to reduce the interval during which the government would
finance the Bank's share of project financing with its own resources, a
Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit
of US$8 million. The government may request the Bank to make advance
payments in dollars from the loan account into this Special Account.
Withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made at the
exchange rate that prevailed on the date of expenditure. The Central Bank
would send the corresponding Statements of Expenditures to the Bank, which
would then replenish the Special Account.
E. Account and Audit Requirements
6.10      Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts
of its project expenditures, which would be audited annually by the Central
Secretariat of Internal Control (SECIN) of the Ministry of Finance according
to standard government practice. The audit report would convey the auditor's
opinion on the adequacy of procedures used for the preparation and
verification of statements of expenditures and their accuracy, eligibility
for financing in accordance with compliance with legal agreements, and the
standard of record-keeping and internal controls. The Special Account would
be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The Government
would forward to the Bank audit reports within six months after the close of
each project fiscal year.
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
7.01      The greater security of tenure, the project activities in support
of land restructuring and the planned improvements in the collection and
updating of cadastral data would yield significant benefits. It is not
possible to quantify those benefits because of lack of data and of empirical
studies. It is also practically impossible to distinguish benefits generated
by the provision of a title from the overall improvements resulting from



- 27 -
parallel rural development operations, although it is expected that the
latter would have a lower efficiency in an unimproved land tenure
environment. The choice of least cost approaches among several technological
alternatives has therefore been a basic objective in the preparation of the
project. The evaluation of the impact of land activities (para. 5.11) should
help obtain quantified estimates of project benefits, which could be used in
the preparation of future projects. Available evidence indicates, however,
that secure land tenure would entail, in a financial environment which is not
otherwise constrained, better access to on-farm investment credit and a
keener interest of the farmer in improving his land assets. However, it has
proven very difficult to put reliable numerical values on the potential
benefits of a land tenure improvement project.
7.02      A recent study conducted in sample areas of the IDB-financed land
project in the Northeast has shown a positive impact of the availability of
titles on farm investments. In practically all areas and farm-size
categories investigated, and notwithstanding the credit crunch in the region,
average per hectare investment was higher in farms with a title than those
without. The difference was between 2O% and 80% in more than 50% of the
sample categories and even higher in most of the other categories. The same
study also showed that, other things being equal, land with a title was worth
at least 10% more than land without. The unit cost of the proposed project
would be about US$7.5 per ha, including all project costs and physical
contingencies, or US$225 for an average farm of 30 ha. fiowever, it would be
only US$5.5 per ha or US$165 per farm if photogrammetry, institution building
and land redistribution planning costs which go beyond the specific
objectives of this project were excluded. These unit costs can be usefully
compared to the production potential of a small farmer on average soils of
the region and with limited know-how and credit, estimated at US$80 to US$160
per ha, or with the increase of value of an average property that can be
reasonably expected in view of the above-mentioned study, of at least US$300
(10% of, say, USS100 per ha x 30 ha per farm). About 28% of project costs,
corresponding to the land tenure identification component, are particularly
sensitive to the efficiency of the newly trained staff of the OETs and to
possible legal or administrative delays in project implementation. Physical
contingencies of 20% have been added to the base cost of the component to
reflect such a risk. An overrun of 50% instead of 20% over the base cost of
the component would bring the average total project cost to US$8.1 per ha
(US$b.8 per ha of direct costs), a figure which still compares well with
expected benefits. A reduction of 40% in areas adjudicated within the
project's life would bring the direct unit cost of the project to about
US$7.5 per ha.
7.03      Beyond the imm ediate production and corresponding employment
benefits that could be generated by the land project, better tenure
conditions are expected to reduce (a) land conflicts and their usually
violent outcomes; (b) rural/urban migration, with its attendant economic and
social costs; (c) costly and time consuming movements of sharecroppers to
different lots each year; and (d) the administrative costs to the government
of land administration and taxation. A more rational taxation or the land,
based on the productive potential of the land rather than on its actual use,
which the project would help make possible, should also lead to a more
intensive use of agricultural land, particularly in the larger,
underutilized, properties. Major improvements of the existing land tax



- 28- - 
legislation may, because of their political difficulty, take years to
achieve. However, a more objective evaluation of the tax basis would be
possible through extensive and accurate land surveys.
B. Project Beneficiaries
7.04      Available statistics show that the average size of farms is close
to 30 ha in the Northeast region. The project would, therefore, result in
the adjudication of some 1 million plots. (ut of these, some 300,00U
properties may already have titles. The project would confirm those titles,
if found valid, with corrections to the boundaries where required. The main
beneficiaries of the project would, however, be a significant proportion of
the remaining 700,000 occupant, tenant or landless families, who would either
receive a title to the land they have been working or be settled on
previously public lands or lands acquired by the government for
redistribution purposes. Some 130,000 families are expected to benefit from
such land redistribution. It has been assumed, in other segments of this
report, that at least one-fifth of direct project beneficiaries, i.e., at
least 200,000 farmer families, would further benefit from improved access to
agricultural credit as a result of the parallel Northeast rural development
projects. Improved tenure conditions should also result for an undetermined
number of sharecroppers and tenants whose tenure contracts would indirectly
benefit from the more secure titles of their land-owners.
C. Project Risks
7.05      A variety of risks that may affect the project are discussed
below. In view of the general political and technological trends of the
country, they are considered to be manageable. The proposed project would
strengthen the government's capacity to implement the agrarian reforms aimed
at by Brazilian legislation. As such, it would have political implications
at various levels of Brazilian society. At the level of federal and state
administration, the project enjoys overall political support. Such support
should result in the allocation of adequate financial resources on a timely
basis. At the level of small farmers, a small risk remains that a perception
by these farmers that the project has failed to meet the expectations it
generated would lead to adverse political reactions. The project could
suffer from delays in institutional development, improper collaboration
between agencies (in particular with the state land registries), legal
obstructions from unsatisfied claimants to landownership or, in the early
years, a lower efficiency of staff and/or data processing equipment than
expected, resulting in the adjudication of a smaller area than originally
estimated. Therefore, the project puts heavy emphasis on technical
assistance, staff training and studies of possible legislative and
administrative improvements. Furthermore, the photogrammetric technologies
used in the project have already been extensively used in Brazil. Some
reduction in the total area adjudicated by the project would not reduce the
value of the project insofar as the quality of the results remains
satisfactory. The report has been written on the assumption that the related
program of investments which the government is discussing for IDB assistance
will be fully compatible with the aims and procedures for this project;
otherwise administrative confusion could harm project implementation. The
establishment of state data banks, without which the project's longer term
impact would be substantially reduced, requires putting into service, early



- 29 -'
in project implementation, highly specialized data processing equipment which
will not be produced in Brazil in time to meet project requirements and will
therefore have to be imported. The timely implementation of aerial
photography, on which subsequent project activities depend, could be delayed
by unfavorable weather conditions. However, beyond the first, tightly
scheduled year, measures have been built into the project for the aerial
photogra-metry of a given area to be implemented up to one year ahead of
subsequent operations. The theoretical possibility that farmers receiving
titles to particularly small plots would sell their plots and move out of the
region would be the result of a free decision of the farmers, imply the
development of a more fluid land market and help to some degree in the
reallocation of lands to other small farmers. Finally, while the immediate,
self-contained objectives of the project justify the proposed investment,
full benefits would only be derived if credit, technical assistance and
marketing infrastructure were also made available to the land project's
beneficiaries, through development programs such as those envisaged under the
Northeast projects.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMNE1DATION
8.01      Assurances were received during negotiations from the Borrower
that it would cause each of the states in the project area to take all
actions necessary to acquire land in a timely manner to meet the land
redistribution targets defined in the operational agreements signed between
INCRA, SUDENE and those states (para. 4.09).
8.02      Assurances were received during negotiations from the Borrower and
INCRA that SUDENE or INCRA would not (a) modify without Bank agreement any
provisions of the operational agreements with the seven states where Bank
funds would be disbursed; and (b) modify the agreements with the other three
states within the project area in a way which would depart from the technical
and pclicy criteria and financial and institutional agreements established
for the project (para. 5.05).
8.03      Further assurances were received during negotiations from INCRA
that:
(a) beneficiaries of the land redistribution activities would be
charged the full value of the land they are allocated (including
improvements specifically allocated to each beneficiary),
determined in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank,
under terms of payment providing for monetary correction and
interest in line with those prevailing for agricultural investment
credit for small farmers in the region, and a repayment period of
not less than 15years (para. 4.1U);
(b) (i) termz of reference for cadastre integration, legal and
socioeconomic studies would be presented to the Bank for review not
later than six months after loan signature; (ii) the studies would
be contrac.ed not later than nine months after loan signature; sad
(iii) their conclusions and recommendations would be furnished to
the Bank (para. 4.22);



- 30 -
(c) The DI would receive full assistance and cooperation from the other
INCRA directorates in the implementation of the project (para.
5.02);
(d)  (i) consultants acceptable to the Bank would be recruited according
to the timetable established in the operational agreements with the
states to study OET management structures,.staffing and methods;
(ii) it would send the findings of the study to the Bank for review
and comment prior to the implementation of its recommendations; and
(iii) the resulting recommendations would be put into effect
promptly upon receiving the Bank's comments (para. 5.07); and
(e) it would (i) furnish to the Bank, not later than 90 days after
project signature, a proposal, satisfactory to the Bank, on the
technical and institutional issues related to the establishment of
state data banks, including the specifications of the equipment to
be utilized; and (ii) not later than April 30, 198b, acquire this
equipment and have it installed by each state (para. 6.05).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million equivalent. The term would be for 15
years including a 3-year grace period.



-31 -
RAZIL                                           nable I
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAN
NORIEAsT RESIGN LAND TENiRE IWNOVEMENT PROJECT
Llst of Eecutinp and Min Colleborutlna Agenele
E         X E C U T I       M C  M A I N  C O L L A 8 O R A T I N G
PR O J ECT
A C T I V I T I E S               Fedeal                                   Federal and
end Regional     State         Othes         Reg Ional          State
Pluri-nnuel progranmlng          InterolnIsterlal                               SUOENE        Rural  ev 't.
CalIssion                                                  Counci I
+ I NCRA
Annual "oratlonelt progrn n             NCRA         OET                                       UTPNE
Annuel BudptIng                         INCRA                                     SEPLAN.      SEPLANJStete + OET +
SUDENE            UTNE
Aerial Photogrmetry
- Contrcts                        INCRA                                    WCAR0EAF
- ExecutIon                                                prIvat  firms
Land Tenure IdentIficatlon                           OET cPFsc  :r;voroe firm
nta BanBk Delgn                        INCRA                                      SERPRO       OET
Cdasr   p plentiwing an                                                                        Land RegistrlI   4
Titl ing                                           OET                          INCRAiD      State Date Processing
Agencies
Land Acquisition
- Identification                                GET (PF)                                  Stafte Land Cotunili
- exproprIotlon                   G4a                                                     OET
- Purcume                         INCRA         OET
SupPort Actlvlttes for Land
RestructurIng                                      OET                          SUCENE       UTPNE
Purchase it Deta-processing                                     Maintnance    Scretaris de
Equi pment                            INCRA                   Contractors   Inforuetica
Staff TraIning and TechnIcal
Assistance to "is OETs                ICRA                    psI vt co"s.
Assistance lo Farmer                                 UTPNE                     SUCENE
Organizat ions
Training of JudiCial Organiss                        OET                       INRA
Review of Agrarian wnd                  hERA         OET                                       UTPNE
Cadastre Lagislation
Project Administrhton &
Nonitforing                          IICR          GET
StudileW
- contrwcts                        HMRA
-  eecution                       lERA                     consultants                    OET
EvaluatIon                             SMO                      prI I vte cons.
* SUDEME



U      U  -                               
S   y  s w   >   t           s M  NU  -  U                     - 
W.~~~~~~~4: gJ E                     nSSW"1



NAIfGW  I&V ANIS1rCN 1PWW
NaicASr Rmiaz  WD TNMiE m      ,_EH2Nr PmJr
Pmje* owtl Per State
Hinm                                          Rio Qta*
Project Ca(p2w ts             AIM=        Bla         Care       Maniiao       GDrals   Paraiba       Penvwb=       Piaui     do Norte       Sergipe   Total
Aerial RPotography                         1,40D       1,850       1,050       1,000         650       400          1,100       1,500         350           800    10,100
Omund  Cmtral ard Hqppirg                 9,3m0       12,300       7,000      6,61         4,500     2,600          6,500      10,400       2,400         5,300    67,300
LaId Tenure Identification                4,450       10,31       9,1U0       3,500        2,550     3,950          8,650      11,000       3,100        2,700    59,300
Cadmtre Inplmwntatfio and TitlIIU         1,400        2,m         1,000        750          650      1,50          2,350       1,40          350           7C0    12,400
S&wort for land Retructurirs              1,050        4,300       2,150      1,750        1,550      1,850         1,700       2,500       1,550          900    19,300
Buildirp                                    350        1,100        550         60D          100       450            600        450          350          250      4,80        
Date Proasirg Fipwt                                      8) ODD     60          600          40D       550            650        60           450          450      5,700               w
Otler Fquipwrt and FurnLib9e0                          2,600       1,000      1,800          30        600          1,70        1,600         400           700    11,600
Staff Trairdrg ad Tech. Mlatax              300          950        400         700          100 l00                  600        550          150          250      4,200
Project AdMunlstratlin                      600        1,350        850         90           50D       700            Bo0        80l          600          500      7,600
Baeltne Costs                            20,350       37,850      23,700     18,230D      11,300    12,8)0         25,050      30,800       9,70D        12,550   202,300
"asteal Otienictie                        2,350        4,500      3,150       2,OOD        1,250     1,550          3,150      3,9DD        1,70          1,450    24,500
Price Cxtirgencies                        2,050        3,950      2,400       1,950        1,150     1,3 M          2,650      3,250        1,000         1,300    21,000
Total                                W,7-50       W. 300           0      22,15450    T3S 76.                  3U,B5       37,950      11,900        15,30D   247,807
Notet Abve ats aexclude studies ad federal level ahirdatrative marveads.



34
TABLE 4
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FinacingPlan a/
(US$5 mIllion)
Brazilian Government      b/
Federal   State   _DB - Bank  Total
Aerial Photogrammetry
Aerial Photography                11.3       -       -      -      11.3
Ground Control, Aerial
Triangulation and Mapping       21.8       -      16.0   42.1   79.9
Land Tenure Identification            34.4       -      13.0    31.8   79.2
Cadastre and Titling                   6.8       -       2.0     5.3   14.1
Support for Land Restructuring         9.8       -       4.0     8.7   22.5
Iustitutional Strengthening
Buildings                          2.5       -       1.0     2.4    5.9
Data Processing Equipment          7.1       -        -       -     7.1
Other Equipment                    5.6       -       2.5     6.1   14.2
Staff Training & Tech. Assist.     1.1       -       1.5    2.0    4.6
Project Administration                 0.1      10.0      -       -    10.1
Studies                                 -        -        -      1.6    1.6
Total                            100.5      10.0    40.0   100.0  250.5
a/ Including physical and price contingencies.
b/ Tentative estimate.



- 35 -
TABLE 5
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements 1/
(US$ million)
Calendar       Quarter       Disbursed           Cumulative         Balonce
Year         Ending      During Quarter    Amount Disbursed       of Loan
1985         June  30           0                    0            100.0
Sept. 30         8.0                  8.0             92.0
Dec. 31          8.0                 16.0             84.0
1986         March 31         8.0                 24.0             76.0
June  30         9.0                 33.0             67.0
Sept. 30         9.0                 42.0             58.0
Dec.  31         9.0                 51.0             49.0
1987         March 31         8.0                 59.0             41.0
June  30         9.0                 68.0             32.0
Sept. 30         6.0                 74.0             26.0
Dec.  31         7.0                 81.0             19.0
1988         March 31         7.0                 88.0             12.0
June  30         8.0                 96.0              4.0
Sept. 30         4.0                100.0               0
1/ Including Special Account Deposit.



BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADHINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Periods Suitable for Aerial Photography
PERIODS OP MAXIMUM PROBABILITY
J        F      H      A     M       J      J       A       S     0      N      D
Alagoas                     -      -
Bahia N-E
Bahia S-E
lahia Center              ----- ____-       -  ---___--   -                                         - - - --- - -______
Bahia West
Ceara North                                                                               ------  - _ _
Ceara South
Maranhao North
Maranhao South
Hinas Gerais                      .                                                   -      -      -      -
Paraiba East
Paraiba West
Pernambuco East                                                                              -      -      -
Pernambuco West
Piaui North
Piaui South                                                                           -
Rio Crande do Norte
Sergipe                                                             -         -       -



BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Main Project Activities - Implementation Chart
1984          1985                1986                   1987         1988
Year 0          Year 1                 Year 2                Year 3
Aerial Photography                                   __ _  __        _ 
Ground Control                              ----
Aerial Triangulation-Mapping
Consolidation of State Land Institutes          ----                    ---------------------
Field Identification                        -------- ___-.                                              _ __
Land Adjudication                          -______ _________,-_ _
Buildings
Land Restructuration                                                    ---
Equipment
Establishment of Data Processing Units
Staff Training                                                                     -- -                      ___-
Studies
Full implementation
---         Part time or coplementary activities



-38-                                          CHART 3
ivmiL Lonm 
~- 3- 3
hDJBMWEm W "ILPMWL
(2) Pwtidpatkn~ ~~~~~~(2
()   nA1nm dv                         CZ) dhmii.a1Scret rW-auala
(5  l,  . ~tan Joi   m
(2)    uUL I E        ~~~~~(2)
DM~        ~~~ IANDn DS3=3)                                                 s.zam
SSIMI                                           =91Z (a(2)E W
D I^ND T I a()                                 (4) 
S IZEEL_ 1!=0F                                                                         NW . x E     _
-UND ADDMWCNtN
C2) Pariial
(3) 0 ImdcdlmI fmxf  -b the Smetmrt_ of Abdclam In =  stmes
o I_d da_vmto  3wd          vddnt- ma mWeope CmldqG
(4) SAdim cf dI tXI         1
(5) Ltd Jmdf JaLu  =l



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Model of Agreement Between INCRA and the States
Agreement Entered into by the National Institute for Colonization and
Agrarian Reform (INCRA), the State of       , and the Superintendency
for the Development of the Northeast - SUDENE, with a View to
Promoting Land Activities in Areas under State Jurisdiction within the
Framework of the Northeast Project.
The National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA),
an independent federal agency created by Decree-Law No. 1.110, of July 9, 1970,
as amended by Law No. 7231, of October 23, 1984, hereinafter known as INCRA, and
represented herein by its president,      , as provided for by Article 5, pars. I
of the above Decree, the State of                   , hereinafter known as the
State, and represented herein by its governor, Dr.              and the
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast, hereinafter known as
SUDENE, and represented herein by its superintendent,
CONSIDERING the provisions of Article 160, clause III of the Federal
Constitution, which construes the social function of property as one of the
pillars of national development and social justice; -
CONSIDERING the advisability of a policy of harmony, compatibility,
collaboration and cooperative organization for public agencies that act at
different levels of government (Land Statute, Article 6);
CONSIDERING the integral planning of economic and social development and
just redistribution of lands of national interest (Articles 17, 18, 20, 24 and
25 of the Land Statute); .
CONSIDERING Decree No. 87.457 of August 16, 1982, which instituted the National
Land Policy Program and regulates the powers of the Special Minister of State
for Land Affairs and stipulates other provisions;
CONSIDERING the objectives and directives set out in the National Land System
Development Project and the Support Program for Small Rural Producers of the
Northeast Project, whose operational proposals were adopted by the
Interministerial Commission of the Northeast Project, created by
Interministerial Decree No. 158 of September 20, 1982, as amended by
Interministerial Decrees Nos. 2 of January 17, 1984 and 64 of May 16, 1984;
CONSIDERING Law No. 6.383 of December 7, 1976, which regulates the adjudication
process of public lands, INCRA Decree No. 407, of April 26, 1977, as amended by
INCRA Decree No. 85 of April 14, 1981, which established the Union Lands
Adjudication System;



- 40 -
ANN3K 1
Page 2
CONSIDERING... (relevant state laws);
CONSIDERING the need to regulate the relationships between and ensure the
compatibility of the activities of the National Land System Development Program
- PDSFN, under INCRA responsibility, the land activities required by the
Support Program for Small Rur-al Producers - PAPP, under the responsibility of
the State, and the directives of the Northeast Project, whose coordination is
the responsibility of SUDENE, in furtherance of the recommendations of the
Interministerial Commission of the Northeast Project:
RESOLVE to enter into this agreement, subject to the following conditions and
clauses:
I - GENERAL CONDITIONS
FIRST CLAUSE - The objective of this agreement is to establish directives and
cooperative procedures of a coordinated nature between INCRA, the State and
SUDENE relating to the implementation of the National Land System Development
Program - PDSFN, to serve the needs of the land activities component of the
State Support Program for Small Rural Producers - PAPP, of the State.
SOL.E PARAGRAPH - The activities planned under the PDSFN are the following:
I.   Institutional strengthening, specifically of (State Land Agency -
OET), and improved legislation;
II. Land ownership regulation through adjudication of state public lands,
demarcation and titling;
III. Establishment of a cadastre and land data bank prepared on the basis
of identification of land uses and land regularization activities;
IV. Land redistribution to landless producers;
V.   Land reallocation by redimensioning rural properties to alleviate the
problem of small producers whose lands are not large enough to sustain them and
provide what they need for progress;
VI. Legal assistance to small producers; and
VII. Special studies.
SECOND CLAUSE - The activities described in the SOLE PARAGRAPH of the FIRST
CLAUSE, items I to VII, shall be implemented under the responsibility of the
State, INCRA and SUDENE, as specified below.
FIRST PARAGRAPH - The activities within the competence of the State relating to
execution of this agreement shall be executed by       (name of the Office of the
Secretary of State to Wh-ich the OET is subordinate), through the
(OET) and by the technical unit (UTPNE) designated by the State to administer
and coordinate implementation of the several activities planned for the PAPP.



- 41 -
ANNIE 1
Page 3
SECOND PARAGRAPH - The activities within the competence of INCRA shall be
executed by its different directorates, under the responsibility of the
Directorate of Integration with States and Territories (DI), which shall be
responsible for programming, establishment of operational norms, technical and
financial administration and follow-up of the activities referred to herein.
THIRD PARAGRAPH- The activities within the competence of SUDENE shall be
executed by the Deputy Superintendency of Rural Development (hereinafter called
SDR).
THIRD CLAUSE - The actions to which the items -of the SOLE PARAGRAPH of the
FIRST CLAUSE refer shall be implemented in the entire territory of the State,
starting with priority areas defined by the State and in conformity with the
directives and rules established in the document entitled, 'Projeto Nordeste -
Programa Regional de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural (Northeast Project -
Regional Support Program for Small Rural Producers)".
FIRST PARAGRAPH - The areas considered priorities for the purposes of this
agreement, and the timetable for their incorporation into the project, are
described in Annex A.
SECOND PARAGRAPH - Changes in the priority areas described in Annex A may be
made, on an exceptional basis, in conformity with the conditions established in
this CLAUSE, and with the consent of the institutions mentioned in the SECOND
CLAUSE.
THIRD PARAGRAPH - Similarly, the State agrees not to alter the areas of
concentrated action of the PAPP unless it reaches a prior understanding with
the other signatories of thLs agreement.
FOURTH CLhUSE - In the event the PDSFN and the PAPP of the State receive
external financing, the signatory institutions of this agreement agree to
respect and comply with, or secure compliance with, the conditions stipulated in
the loan agreements and projects to be signed by the Brazilian government and
the external financial agents, in line with the objectives of this agreement.
II - CONDITIONS OF EXECUTION
Annual Operating Plans
FIFLE CLAUSE - Pursuant to the provisions of this agreement, the institutions
responsible for implementation of the actions provided for herein shall prepare
or have prepared the Annual Operating Plans (POA), execute or have executed the
actions for which they are responsible in an efficient manner, in good time and
in accordance with appropriate technical, administrative and financial
practices, and refrain from undertaking any actions that impede or prevent the
execution of the same.
FIRST PARAGRAPH - On the basis of pluri-annual progrAmming, INCRA shall, with
assistance from SUDENE, furnish to the State the parameters necessary for
development of the Annual Operating Plans (POA).



- 42 -
ANRX I
Page 4
SECOND PARAGRAPH - The POA shall be prepared by the (OET), with the support and
assistance of the technical unit of the PAPP and of the SDR of SUDENE, and
submitted to the Office of the State Secretary of Planning, which shall send to
INCRA a proposal reflecting the priorities of the Sbate.
THIRD PARAGRAPH - INCRA, with the collaboration of SUDENE, shall analyze the POA
in consideration of a consolidated statement for all the States to determine any
changes and adjustments necessary to adapt the POA of each State to the global
amount of resources assured to the PDSFN.
FOURTH PARAGRAPH - The final POA that results from this analysis and
harmonization shall contain detailed information about the areas of action
(with attached maps) for the complete group of operations provided for in the
FIRST CLAUSE, goals by component, cost of operations and sources of financing,
as well as the human resources needed for each activity, furnished by each
agency.
FIFTH PARAGRAPH - The activities and operations planned for the POA and
implemented by the (OET) shall be recorded and reported to INCRA and to SUDENE,
on a quarterly basis, using specific forms provided by INCRA, for purposes of
monitoring. INCRA shall be responsible for exercising supervision over the
execution of the POA.
SIXTH PARAGRAPH - The monitoring (follow-up) reports produced by the OETs shall
circulate freely among all the institutions involved in the land action.
SEVENTH PARAGRAPH - Other commitments undertaken in this agreement not
withstanding, INCRA shall be responsible for transferring financial resources
to the State, whose amounts, timetables and sources, including any external
agencies that cofinance the PDSFN, shall be determined by means of addenda to
this agreement, through which the parties will agree to provide the physical,
financial and human resources for best performance of the plan actions.
Institutional Development
SEI  CLAUSE  - The institutional and legislative improvement activities
mentioned in the SOLE PARAGRAPH, item I, of the FIRST CLAUSE shall be achieved
by means of improving ;L  technical-operational, administrative, and
organizational capacity o& the (OET) and implementing measures designed to place
it at a higher structural rank and by supporting the institutions and agencies
involved in the process of land action such as representative organizations of
agricultural beneficiaries of the PAPP, land registries and other agencies of
the judicial branch of government.
FIRST PARAGRAPH - The State, in furtherance of the ideas of the Regional
Proposal of the PAPP, shall organize and iuplement a State Land Council which
shall have, in addition to others, the following functions:
I - Advise the (OET) on the formulation of state land policy proposals;



- 43 -ANNIXI
II - Decide on the processing of proposals to acquire and redistribute
lands under the framework of the state PAPP, in accordance with the provisions
of the clauses of this agreement.
SECOND PARAGRAPH - Upon request of the State, INCRA shall appoint a
representative to advise the State Land Council.
THIRD PARAGRAPH - The State agrees to take steps to enable the (OET) to enhance
its political-institutional capacity and its operating efficiency with a view to
adapting it to the requirements of implementation of the land actions provided
for herein, in accordance with the timetable that follows as from the date of
signature of this agreement.
I - To undertake, within the term of 5 (five) months, a study to orient
any future changes in the (OET), dealing with such subjects as: scructural
rank, statutes and internal organization plan, general administrative,
financial, accounting and personnel systems, monitoring systems, establishment
of central and regional structures, as defined in Annex C, problems relating to
financing its activities, and capacity to generate its own resources and recover
its costs.
II - To implement, within the term of 12 (twelve) months, the
recommendations of such a study;
III - To undertake within the term of 12 (twelve) months, a study and any
required revision of state agrarian laws for the purpose of making them
compatible with federal laws and the objectives of the PDSFN and of the PAPP.
FOURTH PARAGRAPH - The State agrees to recruit personnel for the OET as defined
in the Thirteenth Paragraph of the Sixth Clause as well as to establish a wage
policy compatible with the technical requirements of the PDSFN. Similarly, it
agrees to make all necessary adjustments in the organizational structure of the
(OET) and to adapt it to the type and size of technical staff required for
implementation of the tasks of the PDSFN.
FIFTH PARAGRAPH - INCRA agrees to transfer to the State, under the framework of
this project, the resources to finance the compensation, limited to the
parameters set out in Annex B, for the employees defined in Annex C, and in
accordance with a program (and timetable) of recruitment set out in Annex D.
The State agrees to assume the difference between actual wages in excess of the
parameters established in Annex B as well as the difference between these
parameters and the declining financing discussed in the Sixth Paragraph.
However, if wages paid by the State were lower than the established parameters,
this would not justify the employment of a larger number of staff, and the
declining financing would apply to the actual wages paid.
SIXTH PARAGRAPH - This transfer of resources shall be done in accordance with
the different categories of tasks to be carried out and the scheme of declining
allocation set out in Annex E.
SEVENTH PARAGRAPH - Staff members not directly involved in project activities or
responsible for activities not financed by it may not be financed out of the
resources of the project.



- 44 -
ANNEt 1
Page 6
EIGHTH PARAGRAPH - The State shall seek the cooperation of the judicial branch
of government for good performance of the proposed land actions, and shall also
propose to it, in common agreement with INCRA and the (OET), measures to
modernize the practices of registering rural real properties, pursuant to the
provisions of the Sole Paragraph, item III, of Article 176 of Law No. 6.015 of
December 31, 1973, as well as offering and organizing, through the (OET), with
the support of INCRA, training courses and meetings for personnel of the
judicial branch (judges, government attorneys, lawyers, registry officials),
and members of rural labor organizations.
NINTH PARAGRAPH - The State and INCRA agree to undertake, within the term of
two years, as from the date of signature of this agreement, a study of all
federal and state laws relating to the activities of identifying private
properties, adjudication of public lands and establishment and maintenance of
the cadastres provided for in the PDSFN, to give their opinions of the
recommendations of this study and, if necessary, to propose any amendments to
those laws.
TENTH PARAGRAPH - The State shall encourage representaAive organizations of
small producers and workers who are the beneficiaries of the state PAPP to
participate in the process of executing its land actions.
ELEVENTH PARAGRAPH - When requested by the State, INCRA may assign members of
its technical staff to support and strengthen the        (OET) during the effective
period of this agreement, in conformity with applicable law.
TWELFTH PARAGRAPH - INCRA, with the support of SUDENE, shall ensure
technical-administrative advisory assistance and offer and support training
courses and activities for the purpose of giving regular and/or refresher
instruction to personnel of the         (OET) in activities and tasks arising from
signature of this agreement, in accordance with the objectives set out in Annex
D.
THIRTEENTH PARAGRAPH - The State agrees to recruit personnel for the
(OET), when necessary, through a selection process to be defined by the State.
Land Adjudication
SEVENTH CLAUSE - Land adjudication actions shall be undertaken by means of:
I - Graphic and literal identification of the terms of possession and
use of land by all its occupants;
II - Adjudication of public lands;
III - Guidance for all cases that require legal resolution;
IV - Establishment of a cadastre of all real properties, with
simultaneous entry in the data bank.
FIRST PARAGRAPH - The State shall carry out the following in the process of land
adjudication:



- 45 -
ANEX 1
I - Furnish full public information about implementation of the land
adjudication actions, with a view to clarifying the objectives of such actions,
and securing the cooperation, participation and involvement of all interested
parties;
TT - Take possession of all unoccupied public lands, lands improperly
occupied for any reason, areas conveyed by the State with a view to implementing
special incentive projects that have not been effectively implemented within the
terms set out in the document of conveyance and the surplus of legally titled
lands whose boundaries have been improperly marked.
SECOND PARAGRAPH - The process of allocation of state public lands shall be
carried out with a view to serving the objectives of the PAPP, in conformity
with applicable law.
THIRD PARAGRAPH - In allocating state public l.nds, individual family property
ownership as well as condominium and mixed ownership systems shall be
permitted.
FOURTH PARAGRAPH - For the conveyance of lands obtained by either expropriation
on grounds of social interest or purchase transaction, and of lands heretofore
incorporated into the property of the State, the beneficiary shall be charged a
price equal to the value set in an assessment report prepared by the          (OET),
which, in the case of expropriation, would have to be aprroved by INCRA.   If
the conveyance is financed, the interest payments and currency indexation to be
charged shall be the saue as the rates in effect, at the time of the conveyance,
for rural credit transactions involving small producers. For conveyances of
public lands occupied by squatters, the values, terms and conditions set out in
current state law shall apply.
FIFTH PARAGRAPH - INCRA shall furnish the State cadastral data for land
adjudication action and shall execute, if requested by the State, the work of
microfilming the books of the land registries located in the areas of action of
the PDSFN and shall furnish the State copies of the processed microfilms.
SIXTH PARAGRAPH - INCRA shall contract, by means of public competitive bidding,
firms specialized in execution of photogrammetrical survey services and basic
cartography for the objective of identifying, measuring and demarcating
lands. Supervision and follow-up are the responsibility of INCRA. All products
of services contracted and received by INCRA shall be transferred to the
the State, which shall take all aecessary measures to preserve these products.
SEVENTH PARAGRAPH - The identifying and demarcating activities to which the
preceding paragraph refers are the responsibility of the (OET) which may engage
directly, or through INCRA, the services of third parties for partial execution
of this work, being agreed that the (OET) shall assume gradually larger
responsibility for such tasks, in accordance with the timetable set out in Annex
D. Supervision and follow-up shall be the responsibility of the (OET) when such
services are contracted.



- 46 -
ANWZ I
EIGHTH PARAGRAPH - In the event the State engages the serviees of third parties
for the identification and demarcation work, under the terms set out in the
preceding paragraph, the (OET) shall strengthen the staff of the Land
Adjudication Teams with a view to meeting only the needs of supervision and
training of its own staff.
NINTH PARAGRAPH - The initial costs of identification and demarcation shall not
be charged to the beneficiaries of the project.
Cadastre
EIGHTR CLAUSE - The development of the technical cadastre and data bank
(hereinafter called cadastre) to which the FIRST CLAUSE refers shall have the
following objectives:
I - Supporting and facilitating the process of land reorganization and
adjudication of public lands;
II - Systematic updating of land data;
III - Production of essential elements for the establishment of rural real
property transfer documents and the attendant entry in the public registry in
the manner provided for in Article 176, Sole Paragraph, item III, of Law No.
6.015 of December 31, 1973;
IV - Guiding the State in preparing and implementing its development
actions;
V - Serving as the basic record for tax assessment purposes;
VI - Furnishing, upon payment, to private interested parties, individual
plats, formal descriptions and other data gathered for the cadastre which may
be made public.
FIRST PARAGRAPH - The cadastre shall have, without prejudice to any additions to
which the parties may agree, the components described in Annex F. These
components shall include:
I - Basic cartographic data;
II - Graphic data taken from identification and cadastral recording of all
parcels;
III - Literal and graphic data which shall be gathered systematically
during the identification process;
IV - Literal and graphic data of a physical nature produced by
supplementary studies;
V - Literal and graphic data produced by the processing of the basic data.



- 47 -
ANNEK 1
Page 9
SECOND PARAGRAPH - The basic cartographic data shall be furnished by the
photograumetrical survey firms specifically contracted by INCRA. INCRA shall be
responsible for preparing the formatting of the graphic data and the
presentation of the cartographic documents, with a view to making the state
cadastres compatible with the cadastres of other states.
THIRD PARAGRAPH - The graphic data produced in the land identification and the
cadastral recording shall be digitalized directly by the (OET), using equipment
to be furnished by the project or by private firms engaged for this purpose by
the     (OET).  In both cases INCRA shall be responsible for defining the format
of the data with a view to ensuring compatibility of state cadastral records.
FOURTH PARAGRAPH - For the purpose of making the cadastral records of the states
compatible and making these cadastres compatible with the national cadastre,
INCRA shall be responsible for preparing the questionnaires necessary for
gathering the literal data during the identification and cadastral recording
phase, for formatt4 .g the data and developing the daca processing system. The
data shall be prepared for processing directly by the (OET), using
equipment to be furnished by the project or by the t&pecialized state firm
engaged in data processing, to be contracted by the (OET). The (OET) shall
assume full responsibility for keeping the cadastre current.
FIFTH PARAGRAPH - The literal and graphic supplementary data of a physical
nature which may be necessary for a land restructuring program (either
redistribution or reallocation) shall be gathered by the division responsible
for land restructuring activities of the (OET), with the assistance, if
required, of specialized personnel hired temporarily for this purpose. These
data shall be prepared for data processing by the (OET), in accordance with the
terms set out in the THIRD PARAGRAPJ.
SIXTH PARAGRAPH - The computer programs used to produce the figures of the
national cadastre shall be written by INCRA so that the final format is
standardized. Computer programs in which only the State is interested may be
written by data processing department personnel of the (OET).
SEVENTH PARAGRAPH - The (OET) shall be responsible for processing and updating
cadastral data by establishing microregional land units (Nucl2i) which, in
coordination with the land registry system, shall keep a record of any changes
that occur in the land system and of any changes in the topographic file.
EIGHTH PARAGRAPH - The (OET) shall furnish INCRA a copy (on magnetic tape, disk
or other data processing record) of all the cadastral data required to establish
the national cadastre and of all changes, alterations and updatings of the
aformentioned cadastral data, at intervals to be defined by INCRA.
NINTH PARAGRAPH - In areas whe e the land adjudication has already been done
under the auspices of other projects, the (OET) shall carry out, as from the
fourth year of effect of this agreement, the work of incorporating the graphic
and literal data of such projects into the cadastral data bank of the State:



-48 -
BNE 1
Page 1
I - The graphic data supported by the national geodetic network would be
incorporated by using pre-existing data prepared for processing or the numerical
data contained in the formal descriptions;
II - The (OET) shall use photogrammetrical procedures to convert data
referenced to a local system;
III - The new photogrammetric coverage that will be necessary in all cases
for proper updatings and later supplementary studies and related maps shall be
furnished by INCRA, provided that resources for this purpose are available;
IV - The (OET) shall establish a file of literal data by preparing for
processing the data of the inquiry forms of such projects and other data
obtained, if necessary, through supplementary field surveys.
TENTH PARAGRAPH - The term of 2 (two) years is hereby stipulated for
implementation of the cadastre at the state level, and 3 (three) years for the
establishment of a system to incorporate the present cadastral system of INCRA
into the cadastres proposed by the project and the data to be generated by the
State.
ELEVENTH PARAGRAPH - The (OET) shali furnish to the land registries, at
intervals to be defined, copies of the following documents:
I - A formal description and individual plat of each parcel of land in the
jurisdiction of each judicial district;
II - Its title;
III - Cadastral maps of the municipalities in the area of jurisdiction of
each judicial district and of adjacent municipalities;
IV - List of parcels in the municipalities of the judicial district and of
adjacent lands;
V - List of land owners in the municipalities of the judicial district and
of adjacent lands.
Land Redistribution
NINTH CLAUSE - Land redistribution actions, either by means of allocation of
state public lands, purchase transaction mechanisms or expropriation, shall
benefit agricultural workers (wage earners) and other lar1less farmers (renters,
share-croppers, tenant farmers, salaried workers and others).
FIRST PARAGRAPH - The process of identifying lands for purposes of
redistribution shall be done simultaneously with implementation of the land
adjudication actions described in the SEVENTH CLAUSE, in accordance with the
following system:



-49 -                         Page
I - The preselection of prospective areas obtainable for purposes of
redistribution shall be done by the (OET), on the basis of available
cartographic material, using photointerpretation;
II - The listing of such preselected areas shall be forwarded to the Land
Adjudication Teams to obtain additional information and to develop a file on
each of the preselected areas;
III - The (OET) shall analyze the material produced by the Land
Adjudication Teams, supplement the evaluation of the preselected properties and
convene a joint committee composed of representatives of the State (the
technical unit of the PAPP and the Regional Unit of the OET) which, with the
participation of a representative of INCRA, shall proceed to select the areas
most suited for procurement. The joint committee may request additional
information and evaluations whenever it considers them necessary;
IV - The joint committee shall submit to the State Lands Council, by
writing, the list of prospective areas for procurement and all relevant data on
each of the areas;
V - The State Lands Council shall review the viability of the proposals
and shall suggest, if necessary, the type of instrument to be used (purchase or
expropriation);
VI - The State Land Council shall forward to INCRA/Brasilia, for
information purposes, a summary of all the proposals approved at that level;
VII - In the event the council suggests the expropriation instrument be
used, the proceedings shall be forwarded to the governor of the State. After
the term of 30 (thirty) days has passed and if no decision has been taken, INCRA
shall be responsible for deciding on the advisability of the action;
VIII - In the event the council rules in favor of purchase of the
property, the negotiation with the owner shall be conducted by representatives
of INCRA and of the (OET) who shall request from che owner a statement of
confirmation or promise to sell, which statement shall be added to the file of
the proceeding which, after proper instructions, shall be forwarded to INCKA, if
INCRA is to be the buyer, or to the State Land Fund, so that the procedures
required for final approval may be taken.
IX - In all cases, the requests and suggestions of local organizations of
beneficiaries and of the regional units of the PAPP shall be given due
consideration.
SECOND PARAGRAPH - The physical planning of the areas acquired, either by
purchase or expropriation, the selection and settlement of the beneficiaries,
and the temporary administration of these areas until such time as they are
conveyed to the beneficiaries shall be executed by the (OET), with the support
of INCRA, and the participation of the Administration of the PAPP and the
beneficiaries; the provision of services and investments, roads included, in
support of production shall be the responsibility of the State, under the
framework of the PAPP.



- 50 -
Page 12
THIRD PARAGRAPH - It is hereby established that expropriation on the grounds of
social interest shall be the preferred instrument for procuring lands for
purposes of redistribution and that procurement by purchase shall be undertaken
only when it is impossible to use the expropriation mechanism.
FOURTH PARAGRAPH - If it is decided to use the instrument of expropriation on
the grounds of social interest, a preliminary attempt shall be made to reach
agreement with the owner and to negotiate payment for the land and its
improvements in TDA.
FIFTH PARAGRAPH - Acquisition by means of purchase shall be accepted in areas
other than those described in item I of the FIRST PARAGRAPH with a view to
exercising, in particular, the right of preference.
Legal Assistance to Small Producers
TENTH CLAUSE - The component of legal assistance to small producers shall be
directed toward serving the needs of small producers in matters of labor
relations, possession and use of land, legitimation of possession, regular and
special usucapion and others. Its objective shall be to support rural worker
labor unions in the area of legal assistance for members by engaging the
services of attorneys and trainees to provide services to these members.
FIRST PARAGRAPH - The technical unit of the state PAPP shall be responsible for
proposing the operational directives for implementation of this component and
shall take responsibility for arranging the necessary agreements with the labor
organizations.
SECOND PARAGRAPH - Resources for implementation of this component shall be
allocated, with the approval of SUDENE, directly to the state PAPP, and the
State shall be responsible for following up the implementation of this
component.
Land Reallocation
ELEVENTK CLAUSE - The land reallocation actions shall have the objective of
correcting discrepancies in the possession and use of land caused by high
concentration of small farms or very small holdings in areas of public or
private domain by enlarging the physical area of the aforementioned properties.
FIRST PARAGRAPH - The need to implement land reallocation actions shall be
identified during the course of the land adjudication procedure. The lands
needed to enlarge the extremely smallholdings that are identified shall be
procured from areas in the vicinity, either public or private, by means of
appropriate instruments provided for in this agreement.
SECOND PARAGRAPH - It shall be the responsibility of the (OET), with the support
of the UTPNE:
I - To select priority small farm areas which shall undergo reaLlocation
action;



- 51 -
AiI 1
II - Use cadastral data to define the boundaries of the area of action and
identify and describe the target population and their economic and productive
conditions;
III - Support the participation of the target population in identifying
land reallocation alternatives;
VI - Plan and implement the reallocation process with the support of INCRA.
Titling
TWELFTH CLAUSE - Titling shall occur in cases of land adjudication,
redistribution and reallocation, in the following fashion:
I - The formal description, the individual plat and the title shall be
issued by the (OET) on the basis of the cadastral data;
II - The title shall be signed by the State and by INCRA jointly;
III - The title shall be guaranteed by the grantor.
FIRST PARAGRAPH - When the area is considered of value for preservation purposes
or if it entails large public investment, grants of real right of use may be
adopted in the titling procedure, in which case the State shall retain
ownership, as provided for in Decree-Law No. 271, of February 28, 1967.
SECOND PARAGRAPH - In cases of areas operated jointly by groups of rural
producers, the titling may be done in condominium (division into equal
shares) or through the instrument of real right of use in the form of
condominium or co-use.
THIRD PARAGRAPH - Wherever possible, and within the limits set by current rules,
the title may not contain any restrictive covenants.
FOURTH PARAGRAPH - In areas that require land adjudication and reallocation, the
following titling criteria shall be adopted:
I - Owners who are the holders of legitimate titles shall be issued titles
of acknowledgment;
II - In cases of legitimation of possession or acknowledgement of special
usucapion, corresponding federal and state laws would apply.
III - Definitive titles will be granted to the beneficiaries of
redistribution or reallocat".,  except for beneficiaries of real right of use.
III. ADMINISTRATION
a CLAUSE  - The specific administrative responsibilities of the
signatory agencies of this agreement shall be those specified below.



- 52 -
ARWEX 1
Pae14
FIRST PARAGRAPH - As part of its responsibility to implement the activities
reserved for it herein, the (OET) shall:
I - Support INCRA personnel in following up and inspecting the services
that have been contracted by INCRA on behalf of the State;
II - Open a special account, in an official bank, for receipt of the
resources to be used by the project, which account shall identify resources by
source;
III - Establish separate accounting systems for the resources allocated to
the project and render accounts to INCRA of all financial resources transferred
to it , on forms prepared by INCRA, which enable unmistakable identification of
all transactions and expenditures, by item of expenditure, especially those
relating to the payment sheet;
IV - Establish and implement a physical and financial monitoring or
follow-up system compatible with the system defined by 1NCRA;
V - Furnish technical, administrative and financial information to all
levels of authority responsible for evaluation of the land actions and of the
PAPP, and to any external financial agents who finance the aforementioned
projects;
VI - Abide by any technical standards recommended by INCRA;
VII - Follow strictly the rules and procedures set out in state laws and
Decree Law 200 of February 25, 1967, for acquisition of goods and services, as
well as any other demands arising from signature, by the Brazilian government,
of agreements with international financial agents;
SECOND PARAGRAPH - The State commits itself to have the (OET) continuously
adopt measures that make for more efficient planning and implementation of its
tasks.
THIRD PARAGRAPH - In order to achieve the objectives set out herein, INCRA shall
have the following duties:
I - Be responsible for the central administration of the PJSFN;
II - Analyze and consolidate, with the support of SUDENE, the Annual
Operating Programs;
III - Prepare a monitoring system, within the term of 90 (ninety) days, as
from the date of signature of this agreement, and support the State in
implementing it;
IV - Establish with the State a technical assistance and training program,
organize it and take responsibility for implementing it, and use external
consultants whenever necessary. This technical assistance shall be given both
in technical matters and administration methods;



- 53 -
AN=~ I
PAp 15
V - Study with the State and implement changes in regulations and
procedures  that help to decrease the time and cost of executing the project;
VI - Contract the evaluation of the operations of the land project and of
the institutional development of the National Land System in the Northeast, and
ensure the necessary coordination between this evaluation and that done by
SUDENE to measure the impact of all the land and rural development operations;
VII - Negotiate all loan agreements for the project with international
agencies, after notifying the State of their terms and conditions;
VIII - Participate in the preparation of the frame of reference through which
the land POA shall be coordinated with the POA of the state PAPP;
IX - Inform the State of the characteristics, conditions and costs of the
goods and services acquired by it on behalf of the State.
FOURTH PARAGRAPH - INCRA shall be responsible for approving statements of
accounts, and this aprroval for a given quarter shall be a condition for
transfer of resources for the second quarter following the one to which the data
refer.
FIFTH PARAGRAPH - INCRA shall be further responsible for:
I - Monitoring, inspecting and receiving the services contracted with
photogrammetric survey firms;
II - Furnishing the State a copy of the technical material produced by the
aforementioned photogrammetric survey services;
III - Acquiring and/or expropriating legally titled areas which were selected
in the process of land adjudication by the State with a view to land
redistribution and reallocation;
IV - Supervising the implementation and maintenance of the cadastral system.
SIXTH PARAGRAPH - SUDENE, through the SDR, shall be responsible for:
I - Consolidating, at the regional level, and in cooperation with INCRA-DI,
the multi-annual planning (both physical and financial) of the land actions, and
guaranteeing their integration with all other actions of the PAPP and other
programs of the Northeast Project;
II - Supporting INCRA in the training activities for employees involved in
the land action within the framework of the Project;
III - Supporting INCRA in the preparation effort discussed in item VIII,
THIRD PARAGRAPH, of the THIRTEENTH CLAUSE;
IV - Developing, within a term of one year as from the date of signature of
this agreement, a system for evaluating the impact of the land action on the



- 54 -
ANNU I
target  population, both in and out of the areas served by other activities of
the PAPP, including among other goals, interviews with representative
institutions and organizations of that population, supplemented by detailed and
representative sampling surveys of the most typical situations, in order to
improve the design and  implementation of later activities.
CLAUSE  - Without prejudice to the operational, administrative and
financial autonomy of the signatory organs, ministerial supervision and
inspection can be implemented through central administrative units.
IV. FINAL PROVISIONS
FIFTZEErT CLAUSE - The draft of this instrument was approved by the Board of
Directors of INCRA, at its meeting, held on the seventh day of January, 1985,
consonant with Resolution No.         , of              , 198 .
SITlEENTH CLAUSE  - The term of effect of this agreement shall be 5 (five)
years, as from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette of the Union,
and the agreement shall also be published in the Official Gazette of the State;
it is hereby noted that the annual programs shall be the subject of addenda to
this Agreement.
SEUBIENTEr rCLAUSE - The courts of Brasilia, DF, are hereby designated as the
forum to settle any questions arising from execution of this agreement which are
not resolved by administrative means.
Being so agreed, the parties signed the present agreement, in ten (10)
copies of equal tenor and form, before the witnesses signed below, for all
legitimate effects of law.
Brasilia, DF, Janaary 1985
Claudio Jose Ribeiro
Acting President of INCRA
Governor of the State
Superintendent of SUDEhE
Witnesses:



YEARLY OOIS OF RUI ULRAME1C OPfIC~tIWS
Prxggrm of Operations
State                       Year 0               Year I              Year 2                Year 3              Total
Aera        Hp          ka                  Arean-    Ama8                            Are                  Are-
States                                Scale I/      @         Cost     KmZ         Cost                Cost      I           Cost               Cost
Alagoes                    27,652     1:5,000       8,734     2,238      5,341     2,403     3,793      1,705      9,788     4,405    27,653    10,752
Bi.La                     559,951    1: 10,000     16,000       895    40,578      5,478    22,204     2,998      22,297     3,010   101,079    12,381
1:33D,000       -         -       12,078       543     8,049       362    2M,492         922    40,619     1,828
Ceara                     146,817    1:10,000      13,908      1,212    34,011     4,591    10,975      1,482      5,889       795    64,783     8,080
Maranha                   324,616    1:10,000         -         -         -          -      41,326     5,579        -         -       41,326     5,579
1:20,000        -         -       25,000     1,125       -         -           -         -      25,000     1,125
Mines Gerais              13M,694    1:10,000       6,756       605    15,145      2,045     8,141      1,099     10,759     1,452    40,801     5,201
Paraiba                    56,372    1: 10,000     11,017      1,038     2,025       273    12,813     1,730        -         -       25,855     3,041
Pernanhxeo                 98,281     1:5,000         -         -        3,779     1,701     1,696       763        -         -        5,475     2,464             Vs
:s10,00D     22,2B6      1,960    12,746     1,721     5,739       775       8,679     1,172    49,450     5,627
Piaui                     250,934    1:10,000      13,981      1,240    49,747 2/  6,716    3D,434     2,759      10,277     1,387    94,439    12,102
Rio Granck do Nbrte        53,015     1:5,00         -         -        1,356       610            -               -         -        1,356       610
1:10,000      6,090       543      7,568     1,022     4,522       610        -          -      18,180     2,175
Sergipe                    21,994     1:5,000       6,289     2,292       -         -          -         -         5,661     2,548    11,950     4,839
1:10,000        -         -       10,044     1,356       -         -           -         -      10,044      1,356
Total                  1,660,326                 105,061    12,023   219,418    29,584   139,689    19,862      93,842    15,691   558,010    77,160
X of Regional Area                                 6%                  13 Ae                                     6Z                   33Z
1/ Map acale is three tiffm  larger than correpondit serial photogr*l, except for sa area pkotogr;hsd durig year 0 where this ratio Is 4:1.
2/ Includirg 11,055 km2 for  hdlch only grourd control ari orthbphoCtaw prodhction are rquired.



ODASM, OPERATU. PDAM
Year 0                           Year I                               Year 2                               Year 3                   Ibtal UT
Area  Plots  PP's  Regtoa       Area      Plots  PF's  Ragisia   Area         Plots  PF's Regioal    Area        Plots  PP's Regiona1    Area    Plots
(km2) (1,0() (*)      Units    (bn2)    ( 10002)        Units      (km2)    (1,000)        Ihits       (bmi)    (1000)        Uhits      (kc.)   (I.C0)
Alagpo                          -    -      2        -       3,692        28    2       2**       4,275       14    1       3         3,519      15    1        4       11,486      57
Bahia                       2,659    5      2       -       13,747        36    3        1       31,515      60    7        5        35,951      66    7        7       83,872    167
Ceara                       1,893    7    (1)        -      11,116        22    5       -        14,992       36    7       -        15,469      32    7        1       43,470      97
MHrhao                          -    -      -        -           -         -    -       -             -       -    -        -        15,000      30    5        5       15,0OD      3)
Miz  Gerais                     -    -      I        -       6,000         5    1       -         9,730        5    1       1        11,228       8    2        2       27,038      18
Paralbe                       635    1      1       -        4,748        11    3       2**       4,585      13    3        2        5,169       13    3        5       15,137     38
Pernarhu,a                      -    -      2       -        7,467        30    3       3**      13,834      48    5        5        10,881      41    4        8       32,182    119
Plaul                         500 2         1       -       ZO,324        35    6       -        23,2D2      34    4        2        Z),0C1      33    6        3       64,107    104
Rio Gtoe do Nbrte               -    -      I       -        3,31.9        4    1       -         4,229       12    3       -         5,522      12    4        -       13,070      28
Sergipe                         -   _      _        -        2,21         12    1       1**       1,553      12    1        1        2,253       13 1           2        6,017     37
Total                       5,687   15    10         -      72,7J4       183   24       9       107,915     234   32       19       125,073     263   40       37      311,379    695
(*)  ftl  PFs In the States of Mina  Gerais and Rio Grande do Norte, In Year 0, would be reutted for staff training pupoee.  Those of the States of Ala                 and
PernuiixoD waxld be established to allow traisitin from present to new tedcology.  T h      of Cuar, in Year 0, would be finae,ed with funds fram
the State PAPP.
(*)  Regincal tnits (Alagpas, Paraibe, Pernmbuco, Sergipe) to be established In areas adlldicated under previoU  projects.
(+)   Individual agreenrnts with each state also show Year 4 operations (not f1naiod by the prolect) whitch woud follow an photagraretry operations flnanced ty this proiect.



-57-                                      ANNC1
AttacNt B
aRAMM1S OF  NUATC OF SOl IAQ DEITUE SAF 1/
(crS '000)_
Ibthly         Mtmthly          13th       Socdal
Designation               Say             Sar  y         Salary                                           2
CC$ 'O(K)      in US S
Presidt                                                                                                      1,440
Attory Geal                                                                                                  1,440
Amlyst                              2,000            2,442           203         871           3,516         1,375
Programnw                           1,500            1,831           153         653           2,637         1,030
Agmwed st (tne r)                    1,420           1,733           144         618           2,495           975
C~RtoXraplur                         1,420           1,733           144         618           2,495           975
LueIme                               1,420           1,733           144         618           2,495           975
Staddan                             1,420            1,733           144         618           2,495           975
Au gsor                              1,420           1,733           144         618           2.495           975
LTbraran                             L,420           1,733           144         618           2,495           975
Dara prooesdg opera 8o                               1,234           103         440           1,777           695
7oppgrapber-toto Interpreter          640              782            65         279           1.126           440
MIdmidan In agwlante                  640              782            65         29            1.126           440
Secretary                             640              782            65         279           1,126           440
Draftmn                               640              782            65         279           1,126           440
Tecdcdan In acwn.tency                640              782            65         279           1,126           440
Stocamn                               640              72             65         279           1,126           440
Pasm=    ardsitnt                     640              782            65         279           1.126           440
Typist                                501              612            51         218             881           345
RePqepOtdst                           501              612            51         218             881           345
Mdunlstrative assdstant               384              469            39         167             675           265
Driver                                384              469            39         167             675           265
lhsaaigar                             334              4uo            34         145             587           230
Attexdant                             334              408            34         145             587           230
SPEUAL ADL
Presideat                                            1,120            93         400           1,613           630
Execuitve Secretary                                    857            71         306           1,234           485
Attorney Gmeral                                        857            71         306           1,234           485
Teclhncal Drector                                      857            71         306           1234            485
Carinet Chdef                                          725            60         255           1,040           410
lhnagftg Directonr                                     725            60         255           1,040           410
Adviser                                                725            60         255           1,040           410
Di-dsien Chief                                         725            60         255           1,040           410
Cldef of regixonl umit                                 725            60         255           1,040           410
Secretayr (in cetral ofEice)                            87             7          31             125            50
lawyer (in specidal cocndson)                          167            14          59             240            95
Agrnomdst (in special com&)                            127            11          45             183            75
Aasdetant (in special omm.)                             67             5          24              %             40
1/ To be periodically updated to reflect inflation anl   ket dmnmd c hiaga
2/ USI1 - C($ 2,562 (October 31, 1984)



PROPOSrD OAMPLE ORGANIZATION CHART OF STATE LAND INSTITUTES
PRESIDENT
Planning
| Cabinet                |                   _- Advisory Office
TECHNICAL DIRECTORATE
LAND
COORDINATION   RESTRUCTURATION
DIVISION         DIVISION
Regional Units
ield Teams and Special Commissiona
0l



bmJflE  CF gmA  I" l ID Ef'fh
DI)ICATIV UISr OF ffADC~ALU mCIW
Mines wRio Grand
Alsa     Bdda   Csara    M*ahazD            Geraig      Paraiba    Pertrnm          Piaui    do Nbrte    Sergie  Totat
President *                         (1)      (D)      (,         (LI)         (1)          (1)             (1)       (W)            (1)        (1)       (10)
Cabinet                             (3)      (3)      ()         (3)                       (3)             (3)        (3)           (3         ()        (30)
)Tvmmor * d  sn                                       (F) O                   (6)          (6)             (6)        (i)           (T)       1(6
Secretir S    c *                   (1)      (1)       1) 0)                               0)              0)         (1)           () 0)10
DrSver  *                           (1)      (1)      (1)        (3)          (1)          (1)             (1)        (1)           (1)        (2)       (10)
P lng Advisory                      (2)  )   (        (9  ((6)(                                            ()         (2) (9)                            (69)
imwii  Secrty * ~    (1)  m    05                                               I           Dn                        ni                                  no  t
Adviar                              (1)      (2)      ) (1       )2)          (1)          (1)             (1)        (2)           (1)        (1)       (13)
SedretaryAdie Aseiet.               (2)      (3)      (2)        (3)          (2)          (2)             (2)        (3)           (2)        (2)       (23)
Driver                              (1)      (2)      (1)        (2)          (1)          (1)             (1)        (2)           (1)        (1)       (13)
Attendart                           (1)      (1)      (1)        (1)          (1)          (1)             (1)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (10)
lg;al  oCauOfc                      (7)    (16)    (10)         (10)          (6)          (5)             (O)        ()              )        ()        (86)
Celvm (chief)                                                                                                                                                            LA1 ST) W  mnmnOO ( 
1al  advl0i  r                      (2)      (6)      (3)        (4)          (1)          (2)             (3)        (2)           (2)        (1)       (26)
Libralan                           (1)      (1)      (1)        (1)          (1)          (1)             (1)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (10)
Tdypst      ive astat               (1)      (4)      (2)        (2)          (1)          (1)             (2)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (16)
Driver                              (1)      (3)      (2)        (1)          (1)          (1)             (2)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (14)
Attendte  (7)                                (1)      (1)        (1)          (1)          (1)             (1)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (10)
6Acunisrti wtdii                     )       (1)      Qh     ?)               (1)7)                                   0 ))()                             0)~
Ad sc ratlg ivse      Office        (5)      (4)      (2)        (3)          (1)          (5)             ()         (2)           (5)        (5)       (54)
Acomuntirg tedmlidan                (1)      (1)      (1                      (             1-1)                      ()()                     (I-)      (1-0)
AGlrdfistratve assistant            (1)      (2)      (1)        (2)          (1)          (1)             (1)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (12)
Tlpist                              (1)      (2)      (2)        (2)          (1)          (2)             (2)        (2)           (2)        (1)       (12)
Driver                              (1)      (3)      (2)        (1)          (1)          (1)                        (1)           (1)        (1)       (10)
Atterdart                           (1)      (1)      (1)        (1)          (1)          (1)             (1)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (10)
Addristrative  dysOrOffice   (7)    (16)    (11)                (10)          (7)           ((12)                     (9)           (8)        (7)       (96)       >1 
A&lnistrative tedinid                1       -(-I)    (1)       -n)           (T           (               ()          ()            i)        (I-       (1-0)     
Adniwnistrative assrstet            (1)         (4)    (2)       (3)          (1)          (2)             (3)        (2)           (1)        (1)       (2f)         n
G-rwhlca Operator                   (1)      (2)      (1)        (1)          ()(1)                        (1)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (11)  
TelephDne cperator                  (1)      (2)      (2)        (2)          (            (2)             (2)        (2)           (2)        (1)       (17)  
Tyopist                             (1)      (3)      (2)        (1)          ()(1)                        (2)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (14)  
Driver                              (1)      (3)      (2)        (1)          ()(1)                        (2)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (14)  
Atterart                            (1)      (1)      (1)        (1)          ()(1)                        (1)        (1)           (1)        (1)       (10)
N t imlu&d In proJect costs.
(  urbrs in parenthids vbo staf finwnnd with State wnterpat fur acluslvely.



Mina                                          Rio OQand
ALA1    Bia   Ceara    Mararhao    Gerais           Paraibs    Penuhco    Piad    do Norte    Sergipe  Total
Data Processin  Divisicn           7      18       11         9           7            9            11          9           7          7        95
Analyst (chief)                    T      7         1         T           I            I                  T           T          T              10
Prcgsmr                            1       1        1         1           1           1              1          1           1          1        10
Operator                           1       6       3          2           1           2              3          2           1          1        22
Cartographr                        1       2        1         1           1            1             1          1           1          1        11
Designer                           1       6       3          2           1           2              3          2           1          1        22
Driver                             1       1        1         1           1           1              1          1           1          1        10
Attendait                          1       1        1         1           1            1             1          1           1          1        10
Tecincal Directorate              (3)     (3)      (3)       ()          ()           (3)           (3)        (3)         (3)        (3)      (3P)
Director (r lst)                  (I      (T)      (1)       PI)         RI          i)             (T)        n)           m         i        (i)
Seretary                          (1)     (1)     (1)        (1)         (1)         (1)            (1)                    (1)        (1)      (10)
Driver                            (1)     (1)      (1)       (1)         (1)         (1)            (1)        (1)         (1)        (1)      (10)
Divlsion of Coordination           8      22       14        16           7           10            17         10           8          7       119
Agmriw t (ddef)                    1       1        1         1           1            1             1                      T         T 1 V
Cartoapher - areyor                1       6        3         4           1           2              4          2           1          1        25
Admu Assist./Secretary             2       4       2          3           1           2              3          2           2          1        22
Draf tam                           1       2        2         2           1            1             2          1           1          1        14
Typist                             1       2       2          2           1            1             2          1           1          1        14
Driver                             1       6       3          3           1           2              4          2            1         1        24             o
Atterdart                          I       I        1         1           1            1             1          1            1         1        10
Divisicn of laid Restnrcxrzg  19          92      62         62          28          34             34         46          29         18       424
Agroiadst(ddef)                    1       1
Secretary                          1       1        1         1           1           1              1          1           1          1        10
Agrw     odst/photoirterpreter     2      10        6         6           2            3             3          4            2         1        39
Settlmit: Ainiatrator              1       9       6          6           2           3              3          4           2          1        37
ZrnGist               1       9        6         6           2            3             3          4            2         1         37
Sal wrker             1       3        2         2           1            1             1          1            1         1        14
Plot desig: Agra" t                1       6        4         4           2            2             2          3           2          1        27
Tqcpgrwqhr           1       6        4         4           2            2             2          3           2          1        27
Agr. tedincian       1       6        4         4           2            2             2          3            2         1         27
Drafta               1       6       4          4           2           2              2          3           2          1        27
AdMlnlstrative ssistat             1       3        2         2           1            1              1         2            1         1         15
Typist                             1       3        2         2           1            2             2          3           2          1         19
Driver                             5      28       19        19           8           10            10         13           8          5       125 
Attendmt                           1       1                                                                                           1        10
Total                       66      187     126        130          73          87            102       102           77         63     1,013
*   Ibt lnclied in project cats.
( ) 1meds in parthsis slrw staff finanQd with State cwaterpart fun   a luively.



DYNAMIC STAFF PLANNING nF THE. OET
A. Ii!ADQUARTERS STAFF FINANCED SY FEDERAL COVERNHENT
ALX,S                           WllA                           tWM                            HWNAO                        MINU a                             PMARA
W"                 Dbta            laD ata                          lit Ds lad                                     lbta           laId            IM              lard            Du lad
Leel         Year  Proc. Coord. P8t         Tokt. Total  u. Cowd.  tuict. TOt              Cwrd. Rhtrut. TOtl  PrO. Cooro PRtnrct- TOl  Po. Cord. Putrd. Total  Proc.   ord. Putriot. TOtal
I           0          -       -        -      -       -       -        -      -          -        -       -      -       -        -              -       I        -       I      -       I        1      2
uWt          I      -       I        1       2      1       1        1       3      1       1        1       3     -        I        1      2      -       I        1       2      -       I        1       2
Uleds         2      1       1        1       3      3       I        I       3      1 3              1       3      1       1        1       3      1       1       1       3      1       1        1       3
(IM$l,375/mw.) 3       1       1        1       3      1       1                       1                        3      1 1              I      3         1                     3      1       1                3
0O                                                 -            -      -      -         -       -     -       -        -       -      -       -        .       .      _       .        .       _
2           I      .       -        _       -      I       _        _       I      I       _        _       I      .       .       _       _      _       _        _       .      _       _        .       _
Prgr'wuet      2      I       -        -       I      I       -        -       I      |       -        .       I      I       -       -       I      I       _        _       I      I       _        _       I
CL50I,030/o.) 3        1       -        -
3           0      -       I        S       b      -       6        9      is      -       -        -       -      -       2       8      10      -       -        5       S      -       2        9      31
Wier bvel    I         -       I        6       I      -       6       20      26      1       3       16      2D     -        2       8       10     -       I        9      10      -       2       12      14
Profeahlnuls  2        1       1        6.      B      2       6       37    4U        1       3       24      28      1       4       16     21       1      1        9      11      1       2       12      IS
(USS975/po,)    3      1       1        6       8      2       t       37     45       1       3      24       28      1      4       24      29      1       1        9      tI      1       2       12     15
4           0                  -        -      -           -        -      -      .       -         -      _      -       _        _       _      _       _        _       .      _       _       _       _
IDtgiPrr,c.    I              -        -       -      -       -        -       -      I       -        -       I      -       -       -              -       -        -       -      -       --               -
Oerato.       2      1       -        -       1      6       -        -       6      3       -        -       3      1      -        -       I      I       -        -       1      2       -        -       2
(t1$6915S91)    3      1       -                1      6       -       _        6      3      -        -       3      2       -        -       2      1       _        _       1      2       -        _      2             1
O                                      -       -        -       -      -      -        -       -      -       -        -       -      _       _        _       _      _       _        _       _
5           1      -       -        I       I     -        -        I       I      -      -         I       I     -       -        I       I      _       -        I       1      _       _        I       I
Secretart.    2       -       -        I       I      -       -        I       I      .       -        I       1      -      _         I      I      _       _        I       I      _       _        I       I
(L6S490/n.)    3               -        I       I     -       -         I       l     -       -         I      I      -       -        I       I      -       -         1.1           -       -        I       I
U      -       -        3       3     -       2        8      10      -       -        -       -      -       I        6       7      -                4              -       I       5       6.
b           1      -       I        3       4      -       2        9      I1      2       a       IZ      16     -       I        6       7      -       1        6       7      -       I        6       7
Tedrddtar       2      1       1        3       5      6       2       18      26      3       2       12      17      1       2        9      12      1       1       6       a      2       1        6       9
(Us$M)/aW.)    3       1       1        3       5      6       2       to      26      3       2       12     17      2       2       12      16      I       1        6       8      2       1        6      9
0O                                             -        -       -     -       -         -      -      -       -        -       -      _       -        _       _      _       _        _       _
7           1      -       I        1       2      -       2        3       5     -       2        2       4      -       I        2       3      -       I        1       2      -       I       2       3
Asistanta       2      -       I        1       2      -       2        3       5      -       2        2      4      -       2        2       4      -       I        1       2      -       I        2       3
(113345wm.)    3       -       I        1       2      _       2        3       5      -       2       2       4      -       2        2       4      -       I        I       2      _       3        2      3
8           0      -       -        -       -      -       -        -       -      -       -        -       -      -       3        5      8              2        6       a      -       -        -       -
ht   Auto.      I      -       3        6       9      -      10       17      27       1      5       8       14     -       3        7      10      -       2        9      11      _       4       11      15
ard M rste      2      I       3        6      10      t      10       31      42      1       5       21      27      1      6        14     21       1      2        9      12      1       4       11      16
(WS$265/.)    3       1       3        6      10      1      10       31     42       1      5       21      27      I       6       21      28      1       2        9      12      1       4       11      16
terduica                                                                                1 3          -        1       1 2            -       12122                   - 1              1       2
Attcphm.       2      1       1        1       3      I       I        I       3      I       I        I       3      1       I        1      3      1       1        1       3      1       1        1       31
(Ul$230/mo.)    3      1       1        1       3      1       1        1       3      I       I        I       3      I      1        1       3      1       1        1       3      1       1        1



PfRMNAIUO                               PIAUI                        RIO GANDE DO NRTE                            SERGIPE                                TOTAL
laqe                  bDat                Land             Dbta                Land              Dbts               Land               Date               Lnd                Date              Land
Level          Year    Pror.  Coord, Restrupt. Total  Proc.  Cooerd, Restruct, Total   Proe, Coerd. Reetruct, Total   Proe.  Coord, Restruet, Total   Proe, Coerd; Restruct. Total
I             0                  _         , -              .        .          _        .        .        .         .         .                          -                 *         2         1        3
niMt           I         -        I          I        2      -         I         1        2        -        I          1        2       -         I         1        2        2       10        10        22
Chicle          2         1         1         1         3      I        I          1        3       1         1         1        3        I        I          I               t to     la         10       30
(USI1,373/mo.)  3           I        I          I        3       I        I          I        J3      I                   I        3        I        I         i         i      10       10         to      3O
0                                                                                                                                                                                          2           -- - ---         
2             1         -        -          -        -      *         -         -         -       -        -          -        -       -         -         -        -       2         -         -         2
Programers        2        1         -         -         I                    I -                I                  I -  -                                              I  I             - I                10
USI,050/ao.)3               I         -         -         I I    I                            I       I                             I                -                   I      10                   -       10
3             0         -        4          9        9                I        14       Is                 I         a         9       -        -          I        I       -        It        64       eI
HIgher Level       I                 4          a        12      -        2         16       is       -         I         9        10       -        I          5        6       1       23        109      13)
Prolesslonals   2           1         4        12        17      I        2         16       19        1        1         9        11       I         1         5        7      11       29        146      192
(USS975/4o0.      3         I        4         12       17      1         2        IS        19       I         I         9       11        I        I         S         7      II       21       154       190
4             0        -         -          -        -      -        -          _         _       _        _          .        -       _         _         _        _        _        .
Data Proc.        I                                     - *  *  *                                * *  *  *  _                                                                                       -
Operators         2        3         -         -               2         *          *        2       1         *                   I       I        -         -         I      21                   -       21
(US 1691/.         3        S         -                  3 5    2         -          -        2       1        -          -        I        I        -         -         I      22                   -       22
o         -                   .        -      -        .          .        .        .        .          .           .       .        .       _        ..      .-                                      
5             I        -         -          I        I      *        -          I        I        *        -          I        I       -        *          I        I       -         -        10       IC
Secretarles       2        -                   I                                             I -  -  I  I  *   *         I         I       -        -          I        I       -        *         10       10
(US 490/mo.l    3           -        -          I        I      '         '            I      I       '        '          I        I        '        '         I         I       '        '         t        10
O       -         -         -        -        *        -          9        9        -        I         3        4        -        -          *                -        6         34        44
O             I       -        2          6         5       -         I         9       10        -        I         6         7       -                                                       I N *  2  13  06  *1
Teclhiclelns       2       3        2          6        11       2        I          9       12        1        1         a         a       I        I          3        9      21       14         76      113
(USS440/mo.       3        3        2          6       11       2         I         9        12       1         1         6        a       I         I         3        1      22        14        SI       117
7             1       -        2          2        4        -        I          3        4       -         I         2        3        -        I          I        2       -       I)         le       3
Asslstants         2       -        2          2         4       *        I          3        4       -         1         2        3        *        I          I        2       -                  19       33
IUS U4I.o.)        3       -        2          2        4        -        I         3         4       -        I          '        3 5               I          1       2        -       14         19       33
5             O       -         -         -         -       -         -         -        -        -        -         -         -       -        -          -        -       -        3         11       I0
Adm.Aete.          I       -        7          7       14        -           4         10    14       -         3         9       12        -        2         6         *       1       43         g       134
and  vrlve,s       2       I         7        11        19       1        4         is       20        1        3         9        13       1        2          6        9      10       46        133      169
(US 265/eo.1      3        I        7         11       19        I        4        Is       20        I        3          9       13        1        2         6        9       10       46       140       196
9             1       -                                                                  2 -  I  1  2  *   I                           -        I          1                        10         10       21  
Attendants       2        1        1          1        3        I        I         I         3       I        I          I        3        I        I         I        3       10       10         10       30
IUSW0/1e.I1    3          I        I          I        3       I         I         I         3       I        I          I        3       I         I         I        3       10       10        10        30
5
i'



B. Fleld Staff
Min                                          Rio Grande
Aagas   Bahia    ara   M1 narho    Gerais    Paraiba    Panima               Plad    do Nate   Sergipe Total
PF/Pegioanal hilts (1)
Year: 0                         2       2       (1)*                   1         1              2         1             1         -      1040
1                       2+2     3+1      540         -          -          3+2           3+3       6              1       1+1     24+9
2                       1+3      7+5     740         -         1+1         3+2           5+5       4+2            3       1+1     32+19
3                       144      7+7     7+1       5+5        2+2          3+5           4+8       643            4       1+2     40O35
Special Ccvissicu  (2)
Year: 0                          12       6       -         -           3           1             2         10           2         -     36
1                        12      17       15         -          3           5             14        19            2         6     93
2                         7       26      21         -          3            6            22         17           6         6    114
3                         8       35      18        19          4            6            20        17            6         6    120
Field Tean (3)                                                                                                                                         w
Year: O                          19      10(+)   -          -           7           1             -         21           -         -     58
1                        19       17(+)  2           -          7           10            20        41            3         8    145
2                        11      27(+)   36          -          6           11            32        46            9         8    186
3                        13      40(+)  29          30         10           11            30        40            9         9    191
I/ PFs ad Reiaa Ihits hae, overall, tse u    sta ffing, coisttng of an ericulttwal   gneesr (dief), a lwer, a
topOgzraptwr/)itointerpreter, an WriculturaL tedn.cian, an aduinistrative assistant, a typist, a driver and an
attidait.  PF staff also incluie an acmuntimg asslstant.
2   Sp a Cbnmdssion staff cxqise a lawyer, gn agramwaist, an administrative assistant and a typist.
3/ Field ldentlfication teams onmaist of a topographer/photointerpreter, an agricultural technlcian a4d a driver.
*   Not finamced by this project.                                                                                                                  '     N
(+) Iese#  figures asinme a higher lnvolvemt of private firms thin In other states.



-64-
ANNEX 1
Attachment E
FEDERAL FINANCING OF OET PERSONNEL
Levels of Financing
(Z of Actual Wages
within limits
established In
Groups of Personnel                                         Attachment B)
Category I
-    OET Headquarters staff, President, hWs    )
Cabinet, Chiefs  of Department,            )      Not flnanced
and others not specified In Category III.)
Category II
All field staff of OETs (PF, CE, field teams
and regional units) withJn the liJmdts
established In Attachment D                           100%
Category III
-    OET Headquarters personnel directly associated
with the supervision of the PDSFN and the
Implementation of the state data banks, within
the limits established in Attachment D:
until March 31, 1986                                  100%
from April 1, 1986 to March 31, 1987                   80%
from April 1, 1987 to March 31, 1988                   60%
-    idem, hired for the land restructuration              100%
division
Category IV
-    Other categories not specified In this annex      Not financed



- 65 _
ANNEX 1
Attachment F
Page 1
Components of the Cadastre
1.  Basic Cartographic Data
-    Copies of original aerial photographs;
-    aerial photographic maps, at different scales;
-    graphic planimetri. line maps;
-    magnetic tapes containing planimetric data from line maps;
-    lists of coordinates of geodetic points, of stereo preparation
points, of aerial triangulation points and densification points
of the cadastral system;
-    identification charts for preceding points;
-    contour level maps on transparent films; and
-    magnetic tapes of contour lines and elevation points of all maps.
2. Graphic Data Resulting from Land Identification and Titling
-    Coordinates of all cadastral grid points (lot boundaries) with
their sequential numbers;
-    cadastral grid vectors (all the straight lines made up of points
with sequential numbers) and the codification for different types
of markers (wooden fence, wire fence, ditch, wall and so forth);
-    cadastral grid parcels constituted by the preceding vectors and
their numbers (tie to the tapes containing literal data);
-    coordination of all the points of the topographic - planimetric
system, with their sequential numbers (points that may also be on
the cadastral grid);
-    topographic - planimetric system, with their sequential numbers
(points that may also be on the cadastral grid);
-    topographic - planimetric grid vectors, with sequential number
and codification of type of marker in the field;
-    objects on topographic - planimetric system (roads, forests,
fields and so forth), which may also be objects in the cadastral
grid;
-    coordinates of all the points of the system for soil use
purposes; and
-    the corresponding objects (zones of classes).
3. Systematically Gathered Literal Data
(To be defined by INCRA)
(Names of villages, places, rivers and so forth)
4. Additional Agro-Economic Literal and Graphic Data
(To be defined by INCKA)



66                           ANNEK 1
Attachment F
Page 2
5. Additional Physical, Literal and Graphic Data
-    Boundary points of zones (coordinates) of classes of soils and/or
zones of classification of water resources and/or ..., etc, with
their sequential numbers;
-    vectors of the corresponding physical grids, with their
sequential numbers (pointers);
-    corresponding zones, with codification of each type.
6. Data Produced by Processing
-    Descriptive memorandum of each parcel;
-    individual plat of each parcel;
-    general cadastral plat (on standard forms, by area,
municipality, and so forth), at different scales;
-    lists of parcels for each municipality, each area, with
sequential number for reference, its geographical location
(centroid), area, soil classes, all improvements, buildings and
name and code of the owner, etc;
-    lists of owners in each municipality with reference number, and
properties (number, area, soil types, assessment for tax
purposes);
-    various maps at different scales resulting from combinations of
the basic data (land grid, topography, soil classes, water
resources, assessment for tax purposes, vegetal cover and so
forth); and
-    lists, tables, diagrams, and maps showing the results of
statistical surveys.



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
Attachment G
EQUIPMENT LIST AND COSTS
(US$)
1. Cars:
-    light cars (berline)  80 x 4,500                          360,000
-    four wheel drive cars 450 x 8,000                       3,600,000
Sub total                         3,960,000
rounded to                        4,000,000
2. Topographic Equipment:
-    theodolites (type Wild T1/T2) with accessories
(2 in each central unit, 1 in each microregional
unit) -      127 x 5,000                                 635,000
-    distance meters (type Wild DI20/35) with
accessories (2 in each central unit, 1 in each
microregional unit)  127 x 10,000                       1,270,000
-    plane-tables with accessories (tripod, compass,
open sight alidade etc.): 400 x 1800                      720,000
-    mirror stereoscope 60 x 1000                               60,000
-    pocket stereoscope  460 x 60                               27,600
-    pocket computer (type HP25) 460 x 50                       23,000
-    measuring tape (50 m) 460 x 50                             23,000
-    planimeter (4 in each central unit, 1 in each
microregional unit) 147 x 400                              58,800
-    binoculars 6 x 30 (1 for each topographer) 400 x 400    160,000
Sub total                         2,977,400
rounded to                        3,000,000
3. Drawing Equipment
-    lighting tables 80 x 400                                   32,000
-    accessories 80 x 100                                        8,000
Sub total                            40,000
rounded to                           50,000
4. Microfilm Equipment
-    reading/recording machine (2 in each control unit,
1 in each microregional unit)  127 x 4,000                508,000
rounded to                          550,000



- 68 -
ANNEX 1
Attachment G
Page 2
5. Data Processing Equipment
-    minicomputer type VAX c/2m bytes                           101,422
-    disk Winchester 160 m bytes                                 15,603
-    2 pack disk 300 m bytes                                     57,212
-    16 assynchron lines                                          5,852
-    floating mark                                                  650
-    plotter (Ao)                                                32,507
-    graphic station                                            72,816
-    printing unit                                               12,000
-    8 alphanumerical terminals                                  20,000
Base unit cost                318,062
-    10 basic units                                          3,180,620
-    12 extra graphic stations                                 873,792
-     1 extra plotter                                            32,507
-    freight and insurance                                       70,000
-    additional software                                         30,000
-    maintenance and tralning                                1,471,290
Sub total 5                 5,658,209
rounded to                  5,700,000
6. Furrdture
-    1600 sets x 2500                                        4,000,000
RECAPITULATION
1. Cars                                                           4,000,000
2.  Topographical equipment                                        3,000,000
3.  Drawing equipment                                                 50,000
4. Microfilm equipment                                               550,000
5.  Data processing equipment                                     5,700,000
6.  Furniture                                                     4,000,000
Total                      17,300,000



IAND REDISTUNUTIRIB   TAI;S: AREA
(Kn)
Year                Year I                  Year 2                    Year 3                  Total
Total                                                                                                                 (1)+(2)
Area                Year 0                Year I                   Year 2                    Year 3                     (2)
States                             (1)  (2) Total  (1)  (2)    Total   (1)    (2)            Total   (1)    (2)       Total   (1)       (2)
Alsgoas                       27,652-         -    -        -    106     106    109    151        260      160    147      307   Z(9    4D4           673
4.7X
Bahia                        559,951    -    -    -        940   -       940   2,790    574   3,364   3,065       673   3,738   6,795   1,247    8,042
1.A
Ceara                         146,817    28   45   73    594   135        729   1,830    270    2,100   3,145      270    3,415    5,597    720    6,317
4.31
Mararhao (4)                 324,616    -    -    -        900  100    1,000   1,800    2W0    2,000   2,700       300   3,800    5,400    600    6,000
1.8%
Minm Gerais                   12D,694   -    -    -        3U5   10      315    715       20      735      735      35     770   1,755       65    1,820
1.5I
Paraiba                       56,372   25   -    25    293   29          322    459       19      478      141     58      199      918    106    1,024
1.8%
Penarbuco                     98,281   -      -    -       606   78      684    487       -       487      259     -       259    1,352      78    1,43D
1.5%
Piad (5)                     250,934   -    -    -         8)9   80      889    836       90      926      896     50      946   2,541      220    2,761
1. 1%
Rio Grande do Norte           53,015   -    -    -         429   43       472    766      77      843      612      61     673    1,807    181      1,988
3.7%
Sergipe                       21,994   -    -    -          60   27       87    133       27      160      240      27     267      433      81       514
2.3%      
Total                     1,660,326    53   45   98  4,936   608   5,544   9,925   1,428   11,353   11,953   1,621   13,574  26,867  3,702   30,549
1.8Z2 
(1) land redistribution area in areas adjudicated under this project.                                                                                            B
(2) Lend rdiistribution otjectives in other areas, mainly previously audlicated.
(3) Percentaw with respect to the total state area.
(4) Estimate.
(5) Ealuditg 143 km2 ard 507 km2 of lard adready mnd by the state and to be redistrl.hed In years 0 ard 1, respectively.



t&D PJIfSIRThUN TAE1S: BWICIARES
('000 faiies)
Year 0            Yar                     Year 2                  Year 3                 Total
Total
Rural                                                                                                            Total
Famille             Year 0               Year I                  Year 2                  Year 3
States               in State    (1)  (2) Total  (1)  (2)    Total   (1)    (2)         Total   (1)    (2)      Total   (1)      (2)      (Z)
Ala.pas                     140      -    -    -       -    0.8      0.8    0.7    1.1       1.8    1.1    1.0       2.1    1.8      2.9     4.7
3.41
Bahia                       900      -    -    -       3.9  -        3.9   10.2    2.0      12.2   10.6    2.4      13.0   24.7      4.4    29.1
3.21
Ceara                       350      0.1  0.2  0.3   2.0  0.5        2.5    6.0    0.9       6.9   10.0    0.9       10.9   18.1     2.5    29.6
5.91
Marazhao                    500      -    -    -       3.0  0.4      3.4    6.0    0.6       6.6    9.0    1.0       10.0   18.0     2.0   420%
4.01 
Minm Gerais                  80      -    -    -       0.9  0.1      1.0    2.0    0.2       2.2    2.1    0.4       2.5    5.0      0.7     5.7
7.11
Paraiba                     240      0.3   -    0.3   3.6  0.4       4.0    5.8    0.2       6.0    1.8    0.7       2.5   11.5      1.3    12.8
5.31
Perarhuco                   410      -    -    -       5.1  1.6      6.7    3.3    -         3.3    1.4    -         1.4    9.8      1.6    11.4
pialil                      180      -    0.2  0.2   4.0  1.2        5.2    4.2    0.5       4.7    4.5    0.2       4.7   12.7      2.1    14.8
11.41
Rio Grande do Norte         140      -    -    -       1.4  0.1      1.5    2.5    0.3       2.8    2.0    0.2       2.2    5.9      0.6     6.5
4.61
Sergipe                     100      -    -    -       0.5  0.2      0.7    1.0    0.2       1.2    1.8    0.2       2.0    3.3      0.6     3.9
3.91
Total                   3,040      0.4  0.4  0.8  24.4  5.3    29.7   41.7    6.0         47.7   44.3    7.0       51.3  110.8    18.7   129.5
3.9%
(1) Land redistribution beridciaries in areas ajulicated urier the project.
(2) Land redistribution beieficaries in other areas,  sinly previwaly adjudicated. SI,
(3) Perentge with respect to the total nmber of rural faidlies In the state.                                                                              fiX



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Directorate of Integration with States and Territories (DI)
Functlons and Composition
A. General Functlons
The Directorate of Integration with States and Territories (DI),
a unit at the first divisional level of INCRA, Is responsible for
coordinating activities between INCRA and the states. It Is also
responsible for providing direct services to INCRA and the states by
coordinating and supervisJng supplementary services to be provided by other
units, both In and out of INCRA and for preparing standards and methods for
the Implementation of the PDSFN. In particular, the DI:
(a) advises the presldent on activities relating to Its defined area
of action;
(b) prepares and has approved by the Secretariat of Planning and
Coordination the rules, operational procedures and systems for
execution and control for the activities In its area of
competance;
*c) defines, with the support of the Secretariat of Planning and
Coordination and of the DF and the DC, the methodology for
preparing and analyzing land and settlement programs and projects
to be executed In a cooperative manner by INCRA and the states;
(d) guides the states In preparing the proposals that entail the
execution of activities within the area of responsibilities of
the Directorate;
(e) analyzes, adjusts and consolidates the proposed plans, programs
and goals of the states;
(f) Identifies alternative national or international sources of
flnancing for the state proposals;
(g) furnishes the Secretariat of Planning and Coordination with a
budget proposal for INCRA activities with a view to meeting the
requests of the states;
(h) establishes arrangements with other units of INCRA In connection
with the activities that are the responsibility of those units In
the preparation and execution of the plans, programs and the
goals defined In (d) above;



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(i) develops, In conjunction with the state land agencies, training
programs whose purpose Is to Instruct and give ongoing education,
both adidnistrative and technical, to staff members Involved In
the SFN;
(j) provides, with the support of the different units of INCRA and
other federal agencies, assistance to the states in
administrative, legal, technical and other fields related to land
activities;
(k) works In conjunction with other units of INCRA with a view
towards harmonizing the rules and procedures set out for the
monitoring of state programs and projects to be executed In
cooperation with INCRA;
(1) proceeds to record and analyze, with the support, when necessary,
of other units of INCRA, the findings and experience stemmdng
from cooperation between INCRA and the states;
(m) sees to it that the states observe and comply with the
commitments contained in the cooperation Instruments signed with
INCRA; and
(n) examines the proposals from the states with a view to simplifying
administrative procedures Improving the efficiency of land
operations and proposing any necessary corrective measures.
B. Internal Organization
The Internal organization of the DI would be conceived In
function of the new division of roles and responsibilities between INCRA
and the OETs for land activities.
Under this new division, the OETs are responsible for
programming, executing and monitoring on a day-by-day basis the land
activities as well as keeping the cadastre of their state. The role of
INCRA, through the DI, Is to (a) ensure that the OETs receive timely
federal funds and that they are furnished the necessary technical and
management assistance; (b) monitor the execution of OET programs; and (c)
evaluate the progress of their Institutional building.
To fulfill correctly the functions assigned to It under this new
distribution of work, and subject to the findings of the proposed
institutional study (Annex 3), the DI could be subdivided Into three major
departments (see attached Organization Chart):
-    The Policies and Programs Department (DPP)
-    The Operations Support Department (DAO)
-    The Administrative and Financial Support Department (DAF)
A description of their functions follows.



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Policies and Programs Department (DPP)
The DPP would be responsible for coordinating the programming and
budgeting activities of various states. It Is In the DPP that the programs
and budgets of the OET relating to activities executed in cooperation with
INCRA would be reviewed for approval; the follow-up of such programs and
the evaluatlon of the Institutional progress of the OET would be conducted;
and the technical assistance activities of the DI and other directorates to
the OET would be programmed. Since the centralizing function Is essential,
the elements that make it up must necessarily be grouped wlthin a single
department. Seven or eight State Program Coordinators would play a pivotal
role In the DPP. They must be good at negotiations and at synthesizing,
and have previous successful experience In land activities (preferably but
not necessarily In land administration). Each coordinator, eventually
supported by an assistant, would be In charge of one or two OETs. The
functions of the DPP may be subdivided into: (a) annual functions; and (b)
ongoing functions.
(a) Annual Functions
1.        Annually evaluate state activities: effectiveness of the SFN, its
appropriateness to the tasks and Institutional progress. Starting with the
statistical elements (physical accomplishments and cost data) and comments
(both written and verbal) from DAO specialists (for technical and
Institutional development), the DPP conducts anevaluation of the elements
of the SFN (and not of the Impact of the activ'ties) and subudts it to the
state land agencies, the governors, and, in sui aary form, to the MEAF, and
eventually to the Regional Development Agencies.
2.        Prepare, convene and activate a Development Policies Commdssion.
This commission shall be composed of representatives of the DPP and DAO and
of other directorates (and eventually regional development agencies), and
shall work on the basis of the evaluation of the SFN and the evaluation of
Its Impact, which would be separately conducted by SUDENE In the case of
the Northeast region.
3.        Analyze (eventually with regional agencies) and consolidate,
after adjustments, the state proposals for programs and projects, taking
into account the earlier accomplishments and the volume of financial and
other resources available.
4.        Develop from the analyses performed in (3) above the activities
program for other directorates of INCRA In agreement with their responsible
officers.
5.        Develop in accordance with the analyses, the activities of DAO
specialists and determine the need for external consultants to provjde
technical assistance and staff training for the state land agencies.



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(b) Ongoing Functions
6.        Establish a liaison with the officers of the state land agencies
and the regional development agencies Involved In the land tenure
improvement areas.
7.        Ensure a follow-up of field activities and Institutional progress
of the state land agencies, as well as of the accomplishments of other
directorates within the framework of the PDSFN, using for this purpose
statistical data provided by the management Information systems of the
OETs, accounting data and reports of DAO experts.
8.        Intervene with State Land Agencies, state governments, DAO and
other dJrectorates whenever necessary to reorient or rectify any deviations
found In relation to the annual prograuming.
9.        Inform the regional rural development agencies or other
institutions whose activities are dependant on land actions of any
deviations In executions that cannot be rectified and study with them the
necessary adjustments that can be made.
10.       Organize and conduct seminars with the support of DAO and
eventually other agencies, In which members of different state land
agencies are brought together.
Operational Support Department (DAO)
The DAO would be a pool of experts representing the entire body
of technical, legal and management disciplines that come together In the
OET. These experts would work with the OETs by visiting assistance
programs already established jointly by the DI and OETs.
The functions of the DAO would be to:
1.        Keep Its staff members knowledgable about technical (from
cartography to the data banks), legal and admdnistrative procedures, and
the management methods of the OETs, and make sure that this knowledge Is
made known i, and applied by the technical personnel of the OETs.
2.        Establish technical standards and procedures to be applied along
with the coeffJcients to be used In budget com;utations.
3.        Engage all necessary consultants and offer regular training to
Its own personnel.
4.        Collaborate with the states through:
-    training activities such as seminars;
-    regular or ad-hoc technical assistance and in-service training;
and
-     self-monltoring  services.



-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~7 
ANNEX 2
Page 5
5.        Provide reports supported by personal judgments and objective
statistical data established by the DPP for the evaluation of the OETs and
have the DPP and OETs participate In the evaluation.
6.        Prepare bidding documents for the Bidding Commissioo' In Its areas
of competence, and Inspect and accept delivery of resulting works.
7.        Participate in the Policies Development Commdssion.
The experts of the DAO may be subdivided into the three following
units:
(a) Cadastral techniques: aerial photogrammetry, cartography,
cadastral data banks;
(b) Land technlques: land adjudication, titling, relations with land
registries and other legal matters; reallocation of land, and
settlement;
Cc) Management techniques: analysis of structures and functions,
analysis of simplification of tasks, analytical accounting,
management by objectives, management of human resources
(seleccion, career systems, incentives).
These experts may be:
-    either permanent employees of the DI; or
-    staff members of other directorates of INCRA or other federal or
state Institutions assigned to the DI for determined periods.
Administrative and Financial Support Department (DIF)
The DIF would be responsible for coordinating, supervising and
regulating the activities performed by the DI and for:
(a) developing, In collaboration with the departments of the
Administrative and Financial Directorate, the operational
procedures and systems necessary for executfoa and controAl of the
activities wlthln DI's sphere of activities;
(b) working with central, regional and state agencies with a view
towards complying with the commdtments of INCRA set out In
cooperation Instruments assigned with the states; and
(c) seeing to It that the criteria, norms, operational procedures and
systems established for iDI's sphere of activities are observed.



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
DIRECTORATE OF INTEGRATION OF THE NAIONAL LAND SYSTEM
-~~~j    epuy irector
|Secretaryj
Po-icies and                 Operations                 Administrative &
Progras                      Support                    Finaucial Support
Department (DPP)             Department (DAO)           Department (DIF)
,  State                        Cadastre
Progam                        Techniques l
,   Coordinatorsl 
.-                                         | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ad-ministration|
Statistics &Land survey
Evaluati-sa                   Techniques|
Development                 Administration
Policies                      Techniques
Commission



77- -                  ANNEX 3
k'age I 
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Design and Introduction
of a Management and Monitoring System in the OETS
A. Purpose of the Action
The purpose of the study would be to (a) provide the OETs of the
ten project states with management systems and methods designed to enable
them to carry out their functions efficiently and cost effectively and
embark on a process of self-sustained growth; (b) provide the staff of the
OETs with basic and advanced training geared to this objective; and
(c) strengthen the capacity of INCRA (DI) to coordinate and promote all OET
operations within the framework of the SFN.
B. Action Timetable
The action will be in five phases, as described below. The
following timetable is proposed for completion of each of these phases
(starting one month after signing of the study contract).
Period
Phase 1: Examination and diagnostic study of the situation,
and scheduling of the program ......... 0.................   2 months
Phase 2: Study of a management system (plus approval) ...s...... 2+1 months
Phase 3:  Improved personnel management methods ................  2 months
Phase 4:  Introduction of management system ................O....   2 months
Phase 5:  Monitoring ...... ... ..... ............. *....... ......... 12 months
The third phase can start simultaneously with the second, or a
little later. The fourth phase will immediately follow Phase 2 (see
schedule below).
Month    I   2    3   i 4 J 5 J 6 J  7 | 8 1                  20
Signing
signng         I   7          I    I    I    I   I                    I.
Phase 1                 l
Phase 2                      i-4---4--|          I    I                   l
Phase3 3           i   I    | _ _                     |
Phase 4       l    l   l         l    l     l l l
Phase 5       l        l    l     l    l     l    l    l   |
I    l   I    I     I    i    l    I    I   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
C. Comments
(a) The period of eight months allowed for the introduction of the
system is binding. Within this deadline, however, the consultant
may suggest such changes to the timetable as he considers
desirable.
(b) In order to improve their individual skills and ensure that
objectives and constraints peculiar to INCRA are duly taken into
account, the consultants will involve DI staff members in the
entire sequence of operations described below, both when working
with the OUTs and during the conception of the system.
(c) An expert on aerial photogrammetry and cadastral surveying
approved by INCRA must be involved in the Phase 2 work or, at the
very least, approve the results of such work.
D. Content of Each Phase
Phase 1: Diagnostic Study and Scheduling of the Management Consolidation
Program:
Ca)  A preliminary study, to be carried out in some of the ten states
(about four in all), will focus on the following: (i) the
political and administrative status (i.e., hierarchical position)
of the OET; (ii) the responsibilities, functions and management
tasks assigned to the OET's various organs; (iii) staff skills;
(iv) the accounting and monitoring system or systems in use; and
(v) the legal requirements, at both the state and federal level,
plus the requirements of international financial agencies, in
relation to OET operations.
(b) A second study, to be carried out concurrently with the first,
will focus on past INCRA involvement in the management of land
operations, the methodology employed and experience gained.
Special attention will be paid to management of the IDB-financcd
land tenure project.
(c) The diagnostic study resulting from (a) and (b) will identify the
major obstacles, both internal and external, present and
potential, to progress by the OETs and will outline possible
solutions. This study will be submitted to all the senior DI and
OET officials concerned and, if necessary, adjusted with them.
The action and work program planned for future phases in light of
this diagnostic study will also be submitted to these officials
and discussed with them.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
Page3
Phase 2: Study of a Management System:
(a)  The study will recommend the measures deemed necessary at the
state level to provide the OETs with the powers needed to carry
out their mission.
(b) Within the OETs, the study will serve to: (i) define clearly the
functions and responsibilities, and hence the decision-making
process, principally as regards the establishment and monitoring
of programs, operating plans and budgets; (ii) prepare a basic
data processing system, suitable for computerization, capable of
producing the outputs needed at various levels for the OlTs' own
managements, under state and federal rules governing public
bodies, and required by national and international institutions
following-up on project management. The systems applied in the
OETs should be uniform in structure, so as to permit compilation
of national syntheses. Variants may, however, be introduced to
take account of special local conditions.
(c) A study will be made within INCRA on compilation of information
derived from the OET systems with a view to consolidating
programs and budgets and monitoring and evaluating them at the
federal level. An examination will be made to verify that
INCRA's organizational structures and procedures are appropriate
to this task. The procedures established by INCRA to program and
monitor its own actions in the states will likewise be examined,
and suggestions for improving these procedures will be put
forward.
(d) The study will also examine links with partners and users of land
regularization operations, particularly the technical units
operating under the Northeast Program and the land registries,
and will propose any measures designed to simplify and
systematize these links that would help improve the OETs' working
conditions, including updating on the cadastral register.
(e) Contacts will be established between those responsible for
carrying out the present study and the study pertaiaing to the
legislation system, in order to facilitate identificatior.,
analysis and (where possible) revision or elimination of measures
that unjustifiably hamper land regularization and restructuring
operations and the updating of the cadastral register.
Phase 3: Improved Methods of Personnel Selection and M4anagement:
The consultant will be required to assist the OET managers in
drafting an overall personnel policy: career planning, financial and other
incentives, selection procedures and criteria, etc. Where possible,
attempts will be made to harmonize policies and criteria among the various
states.



-80 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 4
A detailed program for basic and advanced training in management
techniques will be drawn up for each state and for each category of
personnel (seminars, in-service training, internships at other OETs, and
possibly academic training).
In the case of OETs with initially inadequate staffing, efforts
will be made in conjunction with the local or regional INCRA offices to
study the possibility of transferring INCRA staff with experience that
would be useful to the OET in question, subject to additional training,
where the presence of these staff members is no longer essential to INCRA.
Where OETs are initially overstaffed in certain categories, a
staff reduction plan will be prepared for approval by the state government.
Phases 4 and 5: Introduction and Monitoring of the Methods
The object of these two phases will be to assist the OET
managers, initially through intensive support measures that will gradually
be spaced further and further apart, in introducing and running the systems
desigred in the preceding phases.
In these operations, the consultants will gradually withdraw in
favor of the INCRA staff members which will have been trained by
cooperating in the study and who will later take over .:esponsibility for
assisting and monitoring the OETs.
E. Reports to be Provided
(a) At the end of each of the first three phases, the consultants are
to prepare a report summarizing the work performed during the
phase in question. A draft version will be submitted to the
parties concerned for comments prior to preparation of the final
version.
With regard to the Phase 2, the OET managers will have a period
of two weeks in which to present their comments, following which
the basic system will be finalized.
(b) At the end of Phase 4, the report will present comments on
execution of the phase in question, recommendations for further
operations, and the schedule of follow-up activities.
(c) The final report will comprise comments on execution of the
project (favorable and unfavorable factors encountered), a global
summing up of the operation, and recommendations for the future.
Each of these reports will be prepared in 40 copies, 20 of which
will be for the OETs.



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTKATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
INCRA - Powers of the Directorate of Integration
Draft of Presidential Resolution
Considering that Law No. 7231, of October 23, 1984 provides that
the the Directorate of Integration with the States and Territories (DI)
"plans, undertakes and controls the activities relating to the National
Land Policy Program in the areas of the states-;
Considering that pursuant to these provisions, the DI was
designated as the agency responsible for the programming and efficient
execution of the National Land System Development Project - PDSFN;
Considering that to undertake these responsibilities, the DI
shall perform its activities in collaboration with the states on the basis
of agreements, and internally within INCRA itself, and act in harmony with
the several secretariats, directorates and regional representations of
INCRA;
Considering that the agreements signed by INCRA and the states,
include, in consideration of the nature of the PDSFN, activities that
involve the organ as a whole;
The President of INCKA resolves to approve the following
resolution, which shall govern the relationship between the DI and other
units of the Institute directly involved in the PDSFN.
Resolution
1.   Hereby stipulated that before any decision and/or implementation is
taken in connection with any new actions in the Northeast region
(including the Minas Gerais region of SUDENE), similar to those
described for the PDSFN, all units of the Institute shall coordinate
their activities with the DI.
2.   In all states where there are currently areas which, under the terms
of an agreement, are the objects of land activities on the part of
INCRA, the programming of these areas shall be carried out jointly by
INCRA and the state and shall aim at transferring the rfsponsibility
for the actions in these areas to state jurisdictionE.
3.   The DI shall prepare an annually revised fire-year program (flexible)
and the annual operating program for the following year on the basis
of state proposals and the budget limnI..s imposed on the PDSFN and on



-82 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 2
INCRA, for the purpose of developing a first estimate of its needs of
resources and its needs of involvement of other units of the
Institute.
4.   After discussion and agreement with the units involved, these program
shall be submitted to the Secretariat of Planning (PP) which shall
analyze them and take all subsequent appropriate measures.
5.   During the year, and within the framework of the program approved, the
DI shall define as precisely as possible the needs of involvement of
other directorates. For each type of involvement, the Lerms and
timetables shall be defined.
6.   The DI shall follow up the process of implementation of the actions to
be undertaken by the other units of INCRA within the framework of the
PDSFN; these units shall furnish the elements that are needed for the
accomplishment of this follow-up, and in the event of any deviations
in implementation, shall analyze with those units the reasons and
possible corrective measures to be taken.
7.   The DI shall present every year to the Secretariat of Planning of
INCRA the summary of internal activities undertaken within the
framework of the PDSFN along with suggestions for improvement or
elimination of any difficulties found in the implementation.
8.   The DI shall be responsible for acting with the other directorates in
pursuance of the following objectives:
8.1  With the DF, to:
(i)  expedite the process of transfer of PFs currently under the
responsibility of INCRA to the State Land Agencies of the States
of Maranhao and Pernambuco;
(ii) give priority attention to the need within the framework of the
PDSFN to secure lands for redistribution by means of
expropriation on the grounds of social interest or by purchase
transactions;
(iii) provide technical support to and, when necessary, assist the
actions to be executed by the State Land Agencies;
(iv) title, with the states, the areas acquired by any means
within the areas of action of the PDSFN;
(v) harmonize, in other areas of activity within its
responsibility, its methodologies and technologies with those
approved for the PDSFN; and



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
(vi) unify the cadastre of rural property of the DF with the cadastre
data generated by the PDSFN.
8.2  With the DC, to:
(i)  study and review questions pertaining to implementation and
updating of the cadastre g-nerated by the actions of the PDSFN,
and the need for integration of these data with the rural
property cadastre of INCRA; and
(ii) update the owner declarations in the areas adjudicated
and/or recorded in the cadastre within the framework of the
PDSFN; the State Land Agencies participating in the project will
be authorized to have access to these data.
8.3  With the Directorate of Colonization, to:
'i)  release and/or transfer cne settlement projects included
in the work areas of the PDSFN to state jurisdiction on the basis
of plans and timetables to be established jointly; and
(ii) harmonize the methodologies and technologies approved for
the PDSFN in other areas of action in the Northeast that are not
included in the present action area of the PDSFN, particularly
with respect to joint action with the states.



- 84 -                   ANNEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEYMET PROJECT
Implementation of State Cadastres
Memorandum of Understanding
1.        This is to reflect the understandings reached during the
negotiations of the Loan for the National Land Administration and Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project regarding the implementation of the
State cadastres described in Part B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
2.        As provided in Section 2.01 (d) (i) of the draft Project
Agreement that has been agreed, by a date not later than 90 days after the
signature of the Project Agreement, INCRA shall cause each of the Northeast
States to furnish to the Bank through INCRA a proposal satisfactory to the
Bank on the technical and institutional issues related to the establishment
of the said States' cadastres. Furthermore, as provided in Section 2.01
(a) (ii) of the draft Project Agreement, by April 30, 1986, INCRA and each
of the Northeast States shall complete the installation of the cadastres in
each Northeast State. In order to comply with those two conditions, INCRA
will employ its best efforts to carry out the following steps by the dates
specified herein:
-    Not later than January 21, 1985, prepare in collaboration with
the Bank, draft terms of reference for a study to be implemented
by the specialized technical staff of the intended supplier of
graphical cadastral data processing equipment, which would work
in close collaboration with each Northeast State and INCRA for
the purposes of defining the functions, data base, format and
capacity of each state cadastre and the interrelations between
such cadastres, the future central INCRA cadastre and data banks
established by other Brazilian institutions working on subjects
related to land use, such as IBGE and RADAM-BRASIL;
-    Not later than February 28, 1985, review as necessary the above
Terms of Reference with the Northeast State Authorities, INCRA
staff and relevant federal agencies and obtain Bank approval:
(a) on eventual modifications to the terms of reference; and (b)
on the intended supplier of the equipment, which shall be a firm
with known technical capacity;
-    Not later than March 15, 1985, complete negotiations on the above
study with the intended supplier and s'gn the corresponding
contract;
-    Not later than July 31, 1985, complete the review with State
Authorities and competent federal agencies which INCRA may wish
to consult of the conclusions and reconmendations of the above



-85-                      ANNEX 5
Page 2
study and corresponding definitions of cadastre processing
equipment specifications and send such conclusions and
recommendations to the Bank for review and comment, together with
any further recommendations INCRA and the states may have on the
management of state cadastres and possible results of research
undertaken into alternative configurations;
It being understood that the Bank would make its comments and
opinion known within a month after reception of the above
recommendations and after introducing all modifications that the
Bank way reasonably request, contract the acquisition (by
purchase or leasing) and maintenance of the necessary equipment
for each Northeast State by September 30, 1985;
Acquire one set of cadastral data processing equipment for
installation at INCRA headquarters and have the supplier company
(a) adapt the corresponding basic software to the specific
requirements of the project by October 31, 1985; and (b) start
training INCRA and state cadastre staff immediately thereafter;
Not later than March 15, 1986, (a) ensure the completion of the
State Land Institute buildings or the part thereof where cadastre
personnel and equipment would be located; and (b) ensure the
delivery of cadastre processing equipment; and
Not later than April 30, 1986, have the equipment installed ani
operational in each state.
Mr. Carlos Roberto Cristalli
Leader of Brazilian Delegation
to the Negotiations of the
Northeast Land Tenure ..mprovement Project
Mr. Rene Ruivivar
Leader of the World Bank Delegation
to the Negotiations of the
Northeast Land Tenure Improvement Project
cleared with Messrs. Tulio Barbosa (INCRA) and Maurice Asseo (World Bank,
Agriculture Division B, Latin America and the Caribtbean Projects
Department)
January 1b, 1985



- 86 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT Pk(OJECT
Glossary of Technical Terms
Administrative Adjudication (Discriminacao Administrativa) - Adjudication
made by the Government Administration through its proper departments
without the participation of the Judiciary Branch. (See 'Land
Adjudication.")
Agrarian Debt Bond (TDA) (Ti.ulo da Divida Agraria - TDA) - A bond which
accrues interest of 6% to 12% per annum and monetary correction according
to Article 105 of the Land Statute used by INCRA to pay indemnity of the
unimproved land value of areas that are expropriated in the social
interest. The bond can be used by its holder to pay part of the land tax.
Agrarian Reform (Reforma Agraria) - Combination of actions for better
distribution of land, by making changes in its system of possession and use
to comply with the principles of social justice and to increase
productivity.
Appropriation of Unoccupied Land (Arrecadacao de Terras Devolutas) -
Appropriation to the Federative Republic of Brazil of land for which there
are no deeds of private title nor any administrative contest or claim
brought by third parties for title to or possession of such land.
Cadastre (Cadastro) -- Methodical survey of land parcels for fiscal and
administrative purposes, usually over the whole of a jurisdiction (e.g.,
local government area or whole state).
Cadastre of Rural Property (Cadastro Tecnico de Imoveis Rurais) - (Cadastre
instituted by INCRA to comply with Article 46 of the Land Statute) - Survey
including not only the mapping of the limits and boundaries of rural
property (cadastre plan) and the current use of land, but also surveys on
topographic relief, declivity, drainage, soil, erosion ana other
characteristics for the appraisal and classification of the economic
potential of land.
Cadastre of Rural Property Holders and Owners (Cadastro de Proprietariops e
Dc-tentores de Imoveis Rurais) - Systematic survey of the owners and holders
of rural property to obtain information on the actual distribution ani
concentration of land and on title and possession prevailing in Brazil.
Delimitation (Delimitacao) - Identification on a map of the limits of real
property through existing demarcations, walls, fences, hedges, ditches,
etc.



- 87 -                       m      6ANNx6
Pa ge . T
Demarcation (Demarcacao) - Placement of physical marks to identify the
limits of a parcel of land.
Exploitation Efficiency Degree (Grau de Eficiencia na Exploracao) - Index
of the productivity level of rural property. This index is obtained on the
basis of the proportion between the output determined in the declaration
and the output indices established in a Special Instruction issued by
INCRA.
Expropriation for Social Interest (Desapropriacao por Interesse Social) -
Legal action, as provided for in agrarian law, filed by INCRA to obtain
compulsory transfer of a given rural property to the Federal Government
estate for redistribution to landless farmers or to condition its use for
social purposes. Only property situated in area- declared by federal
decree to have priority for agrarian reform purposes can he expropriated
for social interest. Compensation for the unimproved land is paid by means
of agrarian debt bonds (TDA).
Family Property (Propriedade Familiar) - Rural property that is exploited
by the farmer and his family, directly and personally, absorbing all their
work efforts and ensuring their support and social and economic progress,
having up to the maximum area established for each region and activity, and
possibly farmed with the help of third parties.
Fiszal Module (Modulo Fiscal) - An area defined by INCRA for each
municipality for purposes of taxation. It is based on the kind of
exploitation that is predominant in the municipality, on the output
obtained and on the concept of family property.
Indivisibility of Rural Property (Indivisibilidade do Imovel Rural) - A
principle of agrarian law that impairs the division of rural property into
areas that are smaller than the module for rural property (Article 65 of
the Land Statuce).
Land Adjudication tAcao Discriminatoria) - Action within the authority of
the Federative Republic or of the states, which seeks to separate
unoccupied land owned by Brazil and the states from privately owned land.
Land Grabber (Grileiro) - An individual that uses fraud or other illicit
means to fully of parti.lly falsify a public or private document so as to
gain, for himself or for another, ownership of someone else's land.
Land Regularization (Regularizacao Fundiaria) - Implementation of
administrative or judicial procedures to obtain legitimate private
ownership of land or legitimate tenure of public land.
Land Statute (Estatuto da Terra) - The name giv-n to Law No. 4.504 of
November 30, 1964, which governs the rights and obligations referring to
rural property for the purposes of agrarian reform and of enforrement ef
the agricultural policy of Brazil.



- 88 -
ANNEx 6
Page 3
Land Utilization Degree (Grau de Utilizacao da Terra) - The proportion
between the utilzed area and the usable area of a rural property.
Legitimation of Possession (Legitimacao de Posse) - Consists in giving an
"Occupation License" to an occupant of government land. The area of land
must be less than I00 ha, must have been made p.oductive by the occupant,
who must be able to prove occupation and habitation for a period of greater
than one year and that he is not the owner of any rural land.
Letter of Consent (Carta de Anuencia) - Document issued by INCRA in favor
of a squatter on unoccupied land, who does not yet have title, in order to
grant him access to bank credit. The bank obtains security by means of an
agricultural lien authorized by such letter.
National Land Policy Program (Programa Nacional de Politica Fundiaria) -
Normative instrument created by Decree No. 87.457 of August 16, 1982, for
the purposes of:
- unifying the implementation of land projects;
- activating the implementation of projects to ensure the achievement
of the priority aims of the Government as regards regularization of
lands; and
- enforcing Law No. 4.504 of November 30, 1964 (see 'Land Statute").
National Rural Cadastre System (Sistema Nacional de Cadastro Rural) -
System instituted by Law No. 5868/72 and comprising the following
cadastres:
I    -    Rural Property Cadastre;
II   -    Rural Property Holder and Owner Cadastre;
III  -    Rural Partner and Lessee Cadastre; and
IV   -    Government Land Cadastre.
Native Land (Terras Indigenas) - Federal land designed for Amerindian
occupation by order of the Government.
Occupation License (Licenca de Ocupacao) - A license granted by the
government to an occupant of government land who has fulfilled certain
requirements. The license lasts for four years, after which, if certain
actions have been taken, the licensee has the right to purchase the land at
its unimproved value at the date of occupation (Art. 29 of Law No.
6.383/76).
Priority Agrarian Reform Area (Area Prioritaria de Reforma Agraria) - An
area destined by decree for the implementation of a plan approved by the
Executive Branch that seeks to change the agrarian structure of a region
over a given period of time by eliminating large and very small landed
estates, by giving landless farmers access to land, by preserving the
natural resources and by assuring adequate economic use of the land, within
a previously approved regional plan for agrarian reform.



8-.                      ANNEX 6
-_                  Page 4
PROTERRA (PROTERRA) - Name given to the Program for Redistribution of Land
and Furthering of the Agricultural Industry of the North and Northeast,
instituted by Decree-Law No. 1.179J71, to give easier access to land,
improve the conditions of employment of labor, and develop the agricultural
industry in the regions within the sphere of jurisdiction of SUDAM and
SUDENE.
Public Land (Terras Publicas) - Land owned by the Federative Republic of
Brazil, by the States and Municipalities, regardless of whether it is
designed for public use or other purposes.
Recognition (Deed of) (Titulo de Reconhecimento) - Formal act by which the
Government recogaizes private title to property that is lawfully
distinguished from Government land.
Registry Office (Cartorio) - The premises of notary offices, court
registrars and public registers. The public registry offices include: the
Civil Registry of Natural Persons, Civil Registry of Legal Entities,
Registry of Deeds and Documents, and Real Estate Registry.
Rural Enterprise (Empresa Rural) - Classification given to rural property
exploited on an economic and rational basis according to the criteria
established in the Land Statute.
Rural Module (Modulo Rural) - An area defined for each region as being
sufficient, according to the types of exploitation, to support and to
permit the social and economic progress of the owner and his family.
Rural Worker (Trabalhador Rural) - (a) An individual who works for a rural
employer for any kind of compensation; or (b) a person, whether or not an
owner, who works individually or under the family system for his own
support, under conditions of mutual dependence and settlement, even with
the possible help of third parties.
Sesmaria (Sesmaria) - Designation used while Brazil was a colony for areas
of land that were granted; the dimensions of such areas varied
considerably.
Small Estate (Minifundio) - Rural land with an area of less than one fiscal
module. It may be productive land but is not an economic unit.
Social Role of Land (Funcan Social da Terra) - The complex of purposes to
be achieved by ownership of land in view of the general well-being of
society. One can say that the ownership of land fulfills its social role
when it simultaneously:
a)   favors the well-being of the owners and of the workers that live on
the land, as well as their families;



90 -                       ANNEX 6
Page 5
1)   maintains satisfactory levels of productivity;
c)   ensures the preservation of renewable natural resources; and
d)   complies with the legal provisions that govern fair working relations
l-,tween the owners and the tillers of the land.
Special Land Regularization Commission (Comissao Especial) - Coimission
vested by INCQA or the State Land Institutes with powers to file
administrative discriminatory action for unoccupied land of the Federative
Republic of Brazil (Article 2 of Law No. 6.383/76).
Squatter (Posseiro) - A person who acquires or occupies land with the
intent of owning it without having lawful title to it.
Tenure (Posse) - Conditions under which land is held.
Title Chain (Cadeia Dominial) - Uninterrupted sequence of transfers of
possession of property, from the origin to the latest occupation.
Unimproved Land Value (Valor da Terra Nua) - The intrinsic value of rural
land, excluding any improvements. Such value, as established for the
region by INCRA for cadastre purposes.
Unoccupied Land (Terras Devolutas) - Public land acquired by prescription
or cancellation of concessions and which, not .eing owned or employed for
any public use, is not part of private property in the manner and under the
conditions set forth in Article 5 of Decree-law No. 9.760 of September 5,
1946.
Unproductive Large Estate (Latifundio) - A large rural property that has an
area greater than 600 times the 'fiscal module" for that region. Also,
large estates kept undeveloped even though the land may be productive,
whether for speculative or tax reasons.
Usable Land or Usable Area (Terra Aproveitavel ou Area Aproveitavel) - Area
of rural land which can be used economically, excluding land that has
excessive declivity, physical impedizents (such as stones, rocks, flooding,
salinity, etc.) or soil deficiencies (structural or chemical).
Usucapion Rights (Acao de Usucapiao) - Legal action to obtain title to land
that has been occupied without contest and without any claim from the owner
over the period of time established in law, which permits the Judiciary to
declare that the relevant statute of limitations has expired, the judge's
decision being sufficient to obtain registration of the land. Special
Usucapion Rights may be claimed to land with an area of not more than 25
ha by a person who is neitber a rural nor urban landowner, has had
possession of the land and lived thereon for a period of five consecutive
years without any opposition, and has tilled the land himself.



* 91 -
ANNEX -7
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND  IDXIUSTMhflON PBOGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAD TENURE IMPOVEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available on File
-  Proposals of the 10 Northeast States for Land Activities - 1984, 12
volumes
-  Northeast Project - State PAPP Proposals - 1984, 7 volumes
-  INCRA: SFN Consolidation Project - Preliminary Draft - 1983
-  INCRA: SFN Consolidation Project - Final Draft - 1984
-  !IC1A:  1983 Activities Summary
-  INCRA: Detailed Program of Photogrametric Operations in the Northeast
(with maps)
-  IDB  : Land Regularization Project in the Northeast - Appraisal Report
-  INCRA:  Institutional.Legislation
-  INCRA: Restructuration Proposal
-  INCRA: Land Adjudication Procedures - 1981
- Legislation on Cartography and Aerial Photogrammetry - 1981
- Legislation on Land Taxation - 1981
- INCRA - Rural Cadastre Data - 1982
- Bahia - Land Legislation
- INCRA - Tendering Documents for 1984 Aerial Photograimetry Contracts
- MEA/IDNCRA - Proceedings of International Workshop on Land Tenure
Administration, Salvador, BA, Brazil, August 20-24, 1984
World Bank - Northeast Rural Development I Project - Sergipe - SAX
- Northeast Rural Development II Project - Rio Grande do Norte -
SAR
Working Papers
1. D. Cremont: Working paper on Land Adjudication and Cadastre
Establishment
2. A. Sousbie: Working paper on Land Administration
3.  F. Saez     Mission BTO on Legal Issues Pertaining to Land



NATIONAL LAND ADAMINTRTION PROGRAM"'
LMPROVEAMEN PROJECT        C      BRAZIL 
South Americo
:                                           \R
:./ --. ---:.LD S   PERNAMBUCO
GOIAS                                  ,{-
IN
t } E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ew- '?0 
'pub"d.c.-g-     Vex.du2 .
___                                                   I 4 /           nd, ;*L 2'1.
L_a~~~~~~~~~~~~ m                                 *L BUS.ohn 
Yew S3a;s 3
F.-D. : -
-.':
MINA  9GRI 
30  7E
o____~~~j
4:1~~~~~~



BRAZIL  
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENE.
MOVEME  PROJE                .           BRAZIL  
YEARMLN ADJIUDICAKON OPERATIONS                      li.;li
.>- .                                              . South America
0                     ~~~~~0~
-I
l,                                                                            DO N,.R,;-E
'        y                                    {            \7E''4Pt'AAG
~X                        J- Sr t
*r            5         _                               ( "        OrL.7K      S
GOIAS                                                                       Prouet 7oeidey
-  Lnd a~cchnm.
raw -
\ 1 . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  SmsCapah                                  IteYO
-.                                         L       o A
,-,I                -     M  I N AS   r GE RMAIS                           -_
F.D                                                                  0         Nkck4 200
__-___)                      .."                          As    ' 0*Lo 1X 
-":
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    W  aiu






