Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 10710
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2593-BR)
JUNE 8, 1992
MI CROFTC,HE CoPY
Report No. 1071C--BR  Type: (PCR)
MACKIE, T / X31752 / T9053/ C)EDD'
Environment and Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CuRRENCY EgIVXALENTs
Currency Unit  -  Brazilian Cruzeiro (CrS)V1
Aappraisal                                Commletion
US$1.00 - Cr$2,562 (October 31, 1984)          US$1.00 - Cr$ 1,630 (Feb. 28, 1992)
Cr$ 1.00   US$0.00039                          Cr$ 1.00     US$O.00061
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CAE       Comisslo Agraria Estadual (State Land Commission)
CDRU      Concessao de Direito Real de Uso (Usufruct Right)
CE        Commiss&o Especial (Land Adjudication Commission)
COCAR     (INCRA's Cartography Department)
CRDR      Commissao Regional Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Commission)
DI        Diretoria de In.egracao com Estados e Territorios (INCRA)
(Directorate of Integration with States and Territories of INCRA)
EMFA      Estado Maior das Forcas Armadas (Joint Staff of Armed Forces)
FETAGs    Federag8es dos Trabalhadores na Agricultura
(Agricultural Workers Federations)
IDB       Interamerican Development Bank
INCRA     Instituto Nacional de Colonizag&o e Reforma Agrhria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
MINAGRI   Ministry of Agriculture
HINTER    Ministry of Interior
MIRAD*    Minist6rio da Reforma e Desenvolvimento Agrario
NRDP      Northeast Rural Development Program
(Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Development)
OET       Organo Estudual de Terras
(State Land Institute)
PAPP      Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor
(Support Program for Small Rural Producers of the Northeast Region
Rural Development Program, NRDP)
PDSFN     Programa de Desenvolvimento do Sistema Fundiario Nacional
(National Land Administration Development Program)
PF        Projeto Fundiario (Land Adjudication Project)
SERPRO    (Data Processing Agency)
SUDENE    Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
TDA       Titulos da Divida Agraria (Agrarian Debt Bonds)
TOR       Terms of Reference
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
UTrNE     Unidade Tecnica do Projeto Nordeste
(State CoordirLating Units of the Northeast Program)
* Extinct.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/  The Cruzeiro was reintroduced on March 15, 1990, replacing at a one-to-one ratio the new cruzado
(NCz$), which replaced the cruzado (CzS) on 'anuary 16, 1989, at a one-to-one thousand ratio. The
cruzado substituted the old cruzeiro in February 1986 at a one-to-one thousand ratio.



FOR OFmFCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofhce of Difecttv-GCwetal
OpeAthm Evalwtli<n
June 8, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on BRAZIL
National Land Administration Program
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Proiect (Loan 2593-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil - National Land Administration Program -
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR))" prepared
by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. This project has not been audited by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROORAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2593-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pace No.
PREFACE . . . . . . . . .                 . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .
XVALUATION SUMMARY  .              . . . . . . . . ..         ..         iii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity  ................                  ....
B. Project Background   .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C. Project Objectives and r3scription  . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
D. Project Design and Organization      . . .  . . . . . .   4
E. Project Implementation  ... .....    ... . ..                5
F. Project Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
G. Project Results .iy,:::::                              .  . . .12
H. Project Sustainaoility  .                   .... ...12
I. Bank's Performance, Borrower's Performance and
Project Relationship  . . . .  . . . . .    . . .  .  . .13
J. Conclusions and Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
K. Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
PART Ili  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPEaXIVE   . . . . . . . 17
A. Comments on Part I. . . . ............          ..  ..  .  . 17
B. Project Impact and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . .   . 19
PART XII:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . M . . .         .. . . . . . 21
Table 1: Related Bank Loans Relevant to the Project . . . . . 21
Table 2: Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Table 3:  Cumulative, Estimated and Actual Disbursements . . . 23
Tables 4A and 4B:
Project Key Performance Indicators . . . . . . . . . 24
Table S:  Project Costs  . . .      .. . . . . . . 28
Table 6A: Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   .29
Table 6B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds  . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
This doLument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfiormance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                          Page No.
Table 7A: Project Results - Dtrect Benefits  . . . . . . . . . 3i
Table 7Bs Project Results - Institutional Strengthening,
Technical Assistance and Training .  . . . . . . . 32
Table 8: Compliance with Loan Covenants     . . . . . . . . . 33
Table 9:  Bank Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Table 10: Bank Missions .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Institutiona4/Aeministrative Changes During
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Annex 2 - Project Costs - Breakdown per State  . . . . . . . . 39
Annex 3 - Comparative Performance in Land Expropriation of
the Project and the PNRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
MAPS    - IBRD No. 18685:  Yearly Photogrammetric Operations
- IBRD No. 18686:R Yearly Land Adjudication Operations



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL      -m)yADINISTRATION PROGRA4
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMT'ROVEEEN PROJECT
(LOAN 2593-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project, first phase of the National Land
Administration Program in Brazil. Loan 2593-BR, in the amount of US$100
million, was approved sn June 25, 1985, to finance the implementation of the
project whose total cost was estimated at US$250.5 million. The loan was
closed on February 29, 1992, after three one-year extensions of the original
closing date of September 30, 1988, followed by a five-month extension limited
to an ongoing contract for aerophotogrammetric services. On March 1, 1992 an
initial US$42 million was canceled. Final disbursement of loan proceeds is
expected to take place before the closing of the loan account (June 30, 1992).
By then, some US$53.7 million is expected to be disbursed, and the final
balance estimated at US$4.3 million will then be canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Environment and Agriculture Operations
Division of the Country Department I of the Latin America and the Caribbean
Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). On February 18, 1992,
the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II
which was received on March 20, 1992.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank final super-
vision mission of the project in mid-November 1991, and is based, inter alia,
on a desk review of the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the
Loan and Project Agreements, INCRA's quarterly progress reports until
September 30, 1991, Bank supervision reports, project correspondence, and
internal Bank memoranda.



- i$L -
_PRJECT COMPLETION PEPORT
BRAZIL
NATICNAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REG'ON LAND TErnRE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2593-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.   The main objectives of the project were to (a) extend the benefits of
secure landownership to a large number of small farmers in the ten states of
the Northeast, and (b; improve the Government's ability at both federal and
state levels to formulate land policies and administer the country's land
resources. The first objective was to be achieved by identifying and delimit-
ing, through the land identification and adjudication process, all private and
public properties within the project areal regularizing the tenure of all eli-
gible occupants; selecting, planning the use of and redistributing to present-
ly landless farmers lands acquired by the Government: and confirming landown-
ership rights through the issuance of appropriate titles. The second objec-
tive was to be accomplished through the establishment of state-level cadastral
data banks and their gradual integration with the National Institute for Colo-
nization and Agrarian Reform's (INCRA) fiscal cadastre, the strengthening of
federal and state land institutions, and the completion of various institu-
tional, legal and socioeconomic studies.
Prolect Imolementation
2.   At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$250.5 million, and it
was expected that a Bank loan of US$100 million and an IDB loan of US$40
million would finance, on average, 58 1.arcent of these costs net of taxes for
seven and three states, respectively. Since cofinancing arrangements did not
materialize, the legal agreements were amended a first time, upon loan effec-
tiveness in March 1986, to exterd, without any further change at this stage,
Bank disbursements and related conditions of the loan to the three additional
states. As a result, the Bank loan financed only 41 percent of project costs
net of taxes for ten states. In a second amendment agreed in May 1987, a
revised project implementation schedule, based on a five-year period instead
of the original three-year period, was added to the Loan Agreement, and the
closing date was extended by zne year to September 30, 1988. Under a fourth
amendment to the legal agreements, the Bank agreed to double from 50 percent
to 100 pVrcent the financing of the Government's share in the cost of a UNDP-
executed training contract, and to use US$1.2 million of the proceeds of the
loan to finance 100 percent of the cost of imported data processing equipment.
After two other one-year extensions of the closing date to September 30, 1991,
continuing delays in the execution of a 13-month action plan agreed in August
1990 forced the Bank to exercise the remedies at its disposal under the Loan
Agreement and General Conditions. Loan disbursements were suapanded in July
19911 the suspension was lifted only in late September 1991. Based on the
consiste.itly unsatisfactory performance of the project and the fact that
project completion would have required at least another two years, the Bank



- iv -
declined a Government request for a fourth one-year extension of the closing
date but agreed to postpone the closing date to February 29, 1992, to complete
disbursement of ongoing ICB contracts (No. 01/8/) for aerophotogrammetric
works. By loan closing, the Bank is expected to have disbursed US$53.7
million equivalent or 54 percent of the c:iginal loan. An initial US$42
million was cz-aceled on Mar-h 1, 1992, and another US$4.3 million is expected
to be canceled on closin7 mlf' the loan account. Final project costs, excluding
administration costs, are cxpected to amount to US$110.1 million equivalent,
or 46 percent of the corresponding original estimate, with the Bank loan
financing 49 percent of these costs.
Results
3.   At loan rlosing, the numbers of direct beneficiaries of the land adjudi-
cation and land redistribution components were 25 percent and 20 percent of
appraisal estimates, respectively.  About 171,000 properties, compared wLt); an
original estimate cf 695,000 were adjudicated, and about 25,000 landlesa
farmers, compared with an original estimate of 130,000, got access to land.
In spite of these modest quantitative achievements, the project helped to
improve land tenure in the Northeast states through expanded use of modern
low-cost aerophotogrammetric techniques in identification and redistribution
of unproductive public or private land to farmers with little or no land.
However, the establishment of state data banks, without which the project's
longer-term impact would be substantially reduced, has not been accomplished
and requires appropriate measures and financial resources which will be
partially provided by the ongoing Bank-financed Northeast Rural Development
Program (NRDP) state projects. Finally, with the exception of some positive
standardizatioa effort among the states' land laws and regulations, the
project fell short in its objective of improving land legislation and court
procedures for the judicial resolution of land conflicts.
Sustainabilitv
4. In spite of the modest implementation record, project's objectives have
been met for a reduced number of beneficiaries.  It is expected thac the ex-
post evaluations of the ten NRDP state projects will confirm and quantify the
benefits that were derived from the project. Sustainability of the modest
achievements of the land adjudication and redistribution activities will
largely depend on the farm maiaagement capacity of the settlers and the avail--
ability of efficient production support services provided under the NRDP state
projects.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
5    The following were the main lessons learned in implementing the project:
(a) It is essential to predict correctly the Government's political
will to implement ambitious programs to extend the benefits of secure landown-
ership to a large number of small farmers and improve land policies and admi-
nistration. Although this project tried to develop efficient methodologies
for doing so, the ultimate impact was undermined by a lack of political will
to regulate the land-related articles of the 1988 Constitution and to chal-
lenge vested interests. This missina official commitment. which translated
into chronic counterpart fundina shortfalls and institutional problems. would



have been secured more easily had the controversial land redistrib4tion compo-
nent been eliminated from the prolect: on the other hand. this elimination
could have rendered already difficult farmer participation and popular oupnort
even more problematical.
(b) It is clear that the proposed time frame of three and a half years
for vroiect implementation was overly optimistic given the political sensitiv-
ity of the project actions and the emerging macroeconomic problems. Also,
events which occurred during project implementation, such as the new interpre-
tation of the 1964 Land Law ("Estatuto da Terra") in,the related articles of
the new Constitution, wade it difficult for the project to be executed within
the original time frame.
(c) The new methodology to be introduced and develoved under '.he
proiect for the establishment of a multiRurpose state cadastre needed to be
thoroughly_discussed, understood and agreed with INCRA before the start,of
implementation. The protracted delay in the procurement of the urgently
needed data processing equipment, both locally manufactured and imported,
stemmed mainly from reservations and/or lack of experience of INCRA and the
Data Processing Agency (SERPRO) technical staff regarding the type of joint
alpha-numeric and spatial data base required for the project.
(d) When the success of a project is dependent on close cooperation
among many implementing agencies, ;he coordinating entity should be able to
attract and retain competent techrical, financial and managerial staff and
should be delegated sufficient au.hority to er..ore efficient implementation.
The various structural changes w,ich took place within INCRA and the Minietry
of Agrarian Reform and Development (MIRAD), after the extinction of the Direc-
torate of Integration with States and Territories (DI) in 1986, never vested
the Coordinating Unit with the level of authority needed to deal with the
other INCRA directorates and, in particular, the regional directorates. In
future. the Bank should be more forthcomina in exercisina its remedies when
institutional/organizational weaknesses threaten to undermine imolementation.
(e) A well Planned monitorina and evaluation system should be desianed
at appraisal and is indispensable to provide timely feedback on the pace and
gualitv of implementation, to identify chanaes in strateav or scope recruired.
and to measure Proiect impact. Evaluation arrangements were not well designed
at appraisal; the external evaluation, by independent consultants to be hired
by INCRA, of the performance and progress of the land tenure system did not
take place as planned; and the impact of land activities on the target popu-
lation and on rural development activities is still to be evaluated in each
state by the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE)
under the respective NRDP state projects. Such impact evaluation is needed to
help the Gove=nment prepare any follow-up land tenure project in Brazil.
(f) In the Brazilian administrative and political setup, efficient
project implementation and beneficiary participation are sianificantlv
comoromised for reaional Projects because of the implicit built-in split
between financial responsibilitv and control (INCRA/MI"PDi and manaaerial
responsibilities (State Land Institutes WOETs) and because of the existence of
a complicated and ineffective three-tier channel of funds (Federal Treasury,
Ministry of Interior (MINTER), INCRA) between the federal agencies themselves.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTREAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2593-BR)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect Identity
- Project Name:   National Land Administration Program - Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project
- Loan No.:       2593-BR
- RVP Unit:       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department I
- Country:        Brazil
- Sector:         Agriculture
B. Proiect Backaround
1.        Land Situation.  Based on the concept of the social role of
property, the "Estatuto da Terra" (Law No. 4504 of November 30, 1964) is
considered the centerpiece of Brazilian agrarian legislation. Its objective
is to promote agriculture development through the elimination of unproductive
holdings (through the expropriation of land in the social interest) and uneco-
nomic small farms. However, by the early 1980s, little progress had been made
in this respect. The extent of landlessness among Brazil's small farmers, and
the uneconomic size of many farms continued to be of serious social and econo-
mic concern; in the Northeast region, the geographic focus of this projec%,
only 30 percent of farmer families owned land, and 68 percent of the farms
were less than 10 ha, with an ave -age size of 2.7 ha. The already highly
skewed distribution of farm owneSship had in fact worsened over the last two
decades, and on the fringes of the Amazon region the land tenure situation was
fraught with problems arising from multiple titling of the same plot, occupa-
tion by squatters, fraudulent land sales and social tensions. Moreover, the
land taxation system in Brazil, which did distinguish between farms according
to size and efficiency of use, was based on tax estimates established exclu-
sively on the basis of declarations provided by the supposed owners to the
National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA). As demons-
trated by recent surveys, the cadastral information stored by INCRA lacked the
proper geodetic references or a precise delimitation of boundaries, and the



-2-
sum of the areas declared to be privately owned in a given municipality often
exceeded the municipality's total area.
2.        New Land Policies and Proara q.  In August 1982, the Government
instituted a National Land Policy Program to unify the implementatiun of land
adjudication 1/ and regularization projects and ensure the effective appli-
cation of the "Estatuto da Terra." Within the framework of the land program,
a 15-year National Land Administration Development Program (PDSFN) was fo:.nu-
lated to: (a) strengthen the federal and state land institutions; (b) clarify
the existing land situation; (c) propose legal and administrative measures to
improve conditions of landownership and use; and (d) improve access to land
for small farmers.
3.        Prior Bank and IDB Asei tance for Land Ac6ivities.  Previous Bank
experience in land tenure operations in Brazil had been limited mainly to
relatively small land titling and redistribution componen.:;. in a few rural
development projects of the first generation (POLONORDESTE) in thcf: Northeast
(Loan No. 1589-BR in Paraguagu, Bahia; Loan No. 2015-BR in Piaui). Expe-
rience in both projects pointed to a substantial potential for improvements in
adjudication and redistribution of public and private lands, and the last two
POLONORDESTE rural development projects in the States of Maranhao (Loan No.
2177-BR), and Bahia (Loan No. 2269-BR) had relatively large land components
which relied on modern aerophotogrammetric techniques. Experience in larger-
scale land surveying and titling had been generated by an IDB-financed project
which was implemented in 1982-85, under INCRA coordination, in five states of
the Northeast and wnich utilized aerial photography and cartographic reiti-
tution in three states and traditional topography in the other two. Overall,
past IDB and Bank assistance for land activities effectively helped in devel-
oping the land policies of the states concerned, introducing modern, cost-
effective land survey technologies and achieving various institutional
improvements. In August 1984, INCRA organized, with Bank and IDB assistance,
an International Symposium on Land Administration to help disseminate among
Brazilian land institutions the modern cadastral techniques which were to be
used in the project.
C. Proiect Obiectives and Description
4.        Obiectives.  In line with the objective of the PDSFN, the project
sought to: (a) extend the benefits of secure landownership to a larger number
of small 1' farmers; and (b) improve the Government's ability at both federal
and state levels to formulate land policies and administer the country's land
resources. The first objective was to be achieved by identifying and delimit-
ing, through the process of land identification and adjudication, all private
and public properties wita.n the project area, reoularizing the tenure of all
eligible occupants, selec-Lng, planning the use of and redistributing to land-
less farmers lands acquired by the Government, and confirming landownership
rights through the issuance of appropriate titles. The second objective W!'s
1/ "Dtscriminatoria Administrativa" in Portuguese.
2/ Var,.able holding size, generally less than 50 ha.



-3 -
to be accomplished through the establishment of state-le-el cadastral data
banks and their gradual integration with INCRA's fiscal cadastre, the
strengthening of federal and state land institutions, and the completion of
various institutional, legal and socioeconomic studies. As the initial phase
of the PDSFN, it was concentrated on priority areas of the Northeast (which
legally encompasses the nine states of Alagoas, Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao,
Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe, plus the northean
part of the State of Minas Gerais) involving 564 municipalities and covering
about one-fifth of the region. It was to be implemented over three and a half
years. It was to support improvements in land tenure necessary to enable a
greater number of small farmers to benefit more fully from irrigation, invest-
ment credit and other activities under the ten state-specific projects of the
Support Program for Small Rural Producers (PAPP), within the second-generation
Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP).
b.        Description.  The project, therefore, comprised the following
components:
(a)   Aerial Dhor0orammetrv operations, including the aerial
photography, ground control, aerial triangul eion and the
production of orthophotomaps or line-maps for some 72 blocks
covering about 56 million ha;
(b)   Identification of land tenure conditions in mapped areas totalling
about 31 million ha, including production of microfilms of all
land registry documents, widespread notification of the Govern-
ment's intention to review and regularize ownership rights, physi-
cal identiification of the properties, legal evaluation of all
tenants and occupants' claims and preliminary estimates of land
potentials and values;
(c)   Cadastre implementation and titlina, including the digitalization
of all geographical and literal data generated by the preceding
components for computerized storage and processing, and the
production of about 830,000 title documents;
(d)   Sup2ort for land restructurin , including assessments of land
capability and potential use for the selection of some 3 million
ha to be redistributed to some 130,000 beneficiaries, physical
planning of infrastructure needs, and demarcation and titling of
the resulting plots;
(e)   Institutional strengthening of the existing ten State Land
Institutes (OETs), by providing technical (including data bank
management) and management training, construction of office
buildings for nine OET headquarters and the acquisition of
vehicles, topographical and data processing equipment for
cadastral and titling operations;
(f)   Proiect administration, including incremental administrative costs
of the OETs, and the salaries and travel costs of the project
coordinating unit within INCRA; and



-4-
tg)   Institutional. lecal and socioeconomic studies to help INCRA and
the OETs gradually imprc.. the efficiency of land operations and
land tenure conditions, inc'.uding the following topics: (i) pos-
sible improvements in OET management structures, procedures and
regulations; (ii) means of integrating the multipurpose cadastre
to be produced by the project with the traditional INCRA fiscal
cadastre; (iii) review of legislation on land adjudication and
cadastral operations, and court procedures to accelerate the
judicial resolution of land conflicts; (iv) impact of Brazilian
tenancy Laws on current tenure conditions; (v) land taxation
principles and procedures and the impact of various Government
fiscal incentives on land tenure structures.
D. Project Design and Organization
6.        Proiect Strategy.  In contrast to the piecemeal approach which had
characterized the Bank's past assistance for land activities in Brazil, the
project reflected the political objective and priority attached by the Govern-
ment (beginninq in 1982) to land administration and tenure issues, and repre-
sented a more comprehensive effort to assist the Government to (a) unify land
policies, legislation, and technological and institutional requirements;
(b) mobilize and enhance support from different political and social levels;
and (c) achieve economies of scale, especially in aerial photogrammetry and
surveying operations. The geographical spread of the ten NRDP Bank-assisted
state projects which the project aimed to support, and the need to develop the
institutions of each state, were factors which contributed to the decision to
distribute project activities among all the states of the region.
7.        Project Design.  In retrospect, project design was based on some
important assumptions that proved to be overly optimistic. Among these were
that: (a) the Federal Goverrnent and in particular, INCRA, would maintain the
political will to implement and/or cause the State governments to implement an
ambitious land identification/adjudication and titling program, and to comple-
ment it with a significant land redistribution program; (b) the OETs' institu-
tional capacity could be strengthened to the point of being able to implement
a complex project with innovative techniques, in an uncertain political envi-
ronment; and (c) cLunterpart funds would be available in adequate amounts and
in a timely manner, despite the worsening fiscal situation in Brazil. As it
turned out, during a twenty-month period crucial to project implementation,
the extinction of INCRA, the abolition of its lead ministry, the Ministry of
Agrarian Reform and Development (MIRAD), and finally INCRA's reinstatement
under its original lead ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI), put
repeatedly in question the consistency of the Government's political support
and commitment to the project. Given the precarious political support at the
federal level and weakened federal land institutions, the OETs' institutional
capacity improvement became directly subordinate to the fluctuations of the
state governments' political support.
8.        Proiect Organization.  Direct responsibility for project adminis-
tration and supervision at the federal level was to rest with INCRA's Direc-
torate of Integration with States and Territories (DI) which was to receive
full assistance and coo,eration from the other INCRA directorates involved in



- 5 -
project implementation, and, in particular, from the Regional Directorates.
INCRA was to: (a) establish operational norms and provide technical assis-
tance to the OETs; (b) contract out and supervise all aerial photogrammetric
operations and studies; (c ) produce microfilms of all land registry archives;
(d) acquire land with federal funds; and (e) later, establish and maintain a
central cadastral data bank. At the state level, the ten OETs were to plan
and implement the various project activities. These included: land identifi-
cation and adjudication operations; establishing and maintaining computer-
based data banks; producing title documents for all recognized landowners;
selecting and appraising properties to be acquired by the Government; and
planning and supervising land redistribution and related infrastructure
investments with assistance from the State Coordinating Units of the NRDP
(UTPNE). Small farmer involvement was to be secured through the provision of
legal assistance to the state agricultural workers federations (FETAGs) to
promote farmer participation in the land adjudication activities and provide
legal assistance to small farmers through channels independent from the land
administration. Project implementation procedures and the respective obli-
gations of the implementing institutions, as well as the annual programs and
budgets, were satisfactorily defined in subsidiary operational agreements
entered into by INCRA, the Superintendency for the Development of the North-
east (SUDENE) and each of the ten project states, and updated yearly. Al-
though carefully conceived and prepared, these administrative arrangements
were often ineffective throughout the project implementation period, essen-
tially because of the total lack of "institutional memory" in the implementing
institutions. Repeated changes in policies, structures and key parsonnel at
the federal level deprived INCRA of the necessary continuity in its adminis-
trative and supervisory responsibilities. In the absence of a strong central
monitoring system, the original arrangements set up at the state level loosen-
ed and project implementation became much more sensitive to local political/
electoral trends. Finally, recurrent acute shortages in federal counterpart
funds contributed in tempering the commitment of even the most supportive
state governments.
E. Prolect Implementation
9.        Chronological Events.  The Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors in June 1985, sigi.ed in
October 1985, and was faced at a very early stage with implementation
problems. Up until Board presentation, US$40 million cofinancing from the
Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) was expected for three of the ten North-
east states. However, cofinancing arrangements did not materialize, and at
INCRA's request, the legal agreements were amended upon loan effectiveness on
March 25, 1986, to extend Bank loan financing and related conditions of the
loan to the three additional states. During the first two years, implemen-
tation did not progress as anticipated, mainly becauoe of changes of adminis-
tration in MIRAD and INCRA, and restructuring of INCRA; problems in procuring
and acquiring aerial photography, orthophotomaps, and data processing equip-
ment; political debate regarding the role ^f this project in the National
Agrarian Reform Plan and the relative importance of land regularization and
titling (an increase of land redistribution targets was requested in 1986 by
INCRA) and reservations or dissent, within INCRA, on the objectives, scope and



- 6 -
technl.cal features of the state-level cadastre to be established under the
project.
10.       In a second amendment agreed on May 15, 1987, after broad discus-
sions held at the Bank in late January 1987 with a Brazilian delegation, a
revised project implementation schedule, based on a five-year period instead
of the original three-year period, was added to the Loan Agreement, and a
first one-year extension of the loan closing date from September 30, 1988, to
September 30, 1989 was approved. A second one-year extensie..i was left contin-
gent upon the project's achieving a satisfactory rate of implementation. In
spite of INCRA's abolition in late 1987 and further changes in MIRAD's admi-
nistration, reasonable progress was made in 1987-1988 at both the state and
federal levels: 80 percent of the aerial coverage of the project area was
completed; land identification/adjudication and redistribution activities
gained momentum as well as the preparation, with Bank assistance, of the
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) documents for the first contracts (No.
01/87) of aerophotogrammetric works. This progress was unfortunately inter-
rupted by the Government's various fiscal and administrative reforms. Project
implementation slowed down again during the fourth quarter of 1988 2' as a
result of the late release of federal counterpart funds and ground to a halt
in early 1989 with the extinction of MIRAD. After a period of uncertainty,
INCRA was finally reinstated in June 1989 under its original lead ministry,
the Ministry of Agriculture. Upon confirmation by the Government of its
commitment to the project's original targets, the Bank agreed to the planned
second one-year extension of the closing date until September 30, 1990. Howe-
ver, project implementation continued to suffer from new changes in INCRA
leadership and project key personnel, and acute counterpart funding shortages
as a result of late releases compounded by skyrocketing monthly inflation
rates. The lack of orthophotomaps resulting from the protracted delays in the
signing of the first ICB contracts (No. 01/87), twice postponed until October
1990, kept the land identification/adjudication procese at a near standstill.
11.       Following the change in Government in 1990, the new administration
indicated renewed interest in the project and requested a third one-year
extension of the closing date until September 30, 1991, to resolve, in accor-
dance with a satisfactory 13-month action plan presented by INCRA's new
President in August 1990, pending issues concerning delayed procurement of
locally manufactured and imported data processing equipment, audits of project
accounts, and reduced land identification/adjudication and redistribution tar-
gets based on a proposed six-year implementation period. A fourth amendment
to the loan documents incorporated the new administrative and structural
changes introduced after June 1989 and adjusted financing shares and loan
allocations for a UNDP-executed training contract and imported data processing
equipment. However, the freezing by the Government of project funds budgeted
for 1991, the cancellation at the final stage in January 1991 of the bidding
process for the procurement of locally manufactured data processing equipment,
subsequent non-compliance with the proposed rebidding timetable, and the
overall continuing delays in the execution of the agreed action plan, forced
the Bank to exercise its remedies under the Loan Agreement and General
3/ Set of administrative reforms called "01Derac&o Desmonte."



Conditions. Accordingly, loan disbursements were suspended on July 5, 1991.
The suspension was lifted only on September 27, 1991, after certain measures
related to resumption of project funding and procurement of data processing
equipment had been taken to bring the project into compliance with related
legal covenants. As a result of these financial, administrative and mana-
gerial constraints, land identification/adjudication and redistribution
activities remained at a virtual standstill during the first nine months of
1991. Although some progress was made in the planned procurement of aero-
photogrammetric works (ICB documents No. 01/90) and imported data processing
equipment (ICB documents No. 01/91), the completion of the first contracts
(No. 01/87) and the delivery of about 7,160 urgently needed orthophotomaps
were also delayed by about four months to February 1992. Finally, the audit
report for the period 1988-1989, received in late September 1991, e.g., four-
teen months after the due date, was heavily qualified.
12.       Based on the fact that project performance had been consistently
unsatisfactory and that completion of the project would have required at least
another two years, the Bank declined a further twelve-month extension of the
loan closing date as requested by the Government only on September 27, 1991.
Instead, it agreed to postpone the closing date to February 29, 1992, to allow
additional time to complete disbursements for the ongoing ICB contracts. An
initial amount of US$42 million was canceled, effective March 1, 1992. Final
disbursement of loan proceeds will be made before June 30, 1992, when the loan
account will be closed. Total disbursements are expected to be about US$53.7
million equivalent, or about 54 percent of the appraisal estimate of US$100
million, and an additional US$4.3 million equivalent are expected to be
canceled at that time.
13.       The aerialshotoarammetrv operations, consisting of aerial photo-
graphy and ground control, aerial triangulation and mapping activities, aimed
to support, through the production of orthophotomaps or line-maps, the on-the-
ground identification of land tenure conditions. The target of some 56 mil-
lion ha was intended to cover the project's requirements and pave the way for
uninterrupted land surveys to be carried out during the first year of a pos-
sible second phase of the PDSFN. Photogrammetric operations, which had
previously been procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) during
project preparation, were incorporated into project costs based on the actual
contracts signed by INCRA. Those were completed by mid-June 1986. Subsequent
photogrammetric operations were to be procured through ICB. The corresponding
aerial photography component was to be procured through LCB from local firms
exclusively at the request of the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces (EMFA), on
security grounds and, therefore, was not eligible for Bank financing.
14.       The aerial photography target of 558,000 km2 (including 93,000 km2
completed at the end of project preparation) was achieved in early 1989 at a
unit cost of US$19 per km2- e.g., 95 percent of appraisal estimate. However,
because of continuing institutional and financial uncertainties at the federal
level, the bidding process for the production of the first 218,000 km2 of
orthophotomaps (following the 88,000 km2 contracted at the end of project
preparation) took 26 months from the prequalification review to contract sign-
ing in October 1990. This protracted delay translated into the unavailability
until August 1991 of orthophotomaps other than those produced in 1985-86, and



- 8 -
considerably hampered land identification/adjudication operations. The momen-
tum gained in 1987-88 in field surveys came to a quasi standstill in 1989 with
the exhaustion of available cartographic material. However, by the time of
loan closing, about 306,000 km2 of orthophotomaps (including 88,000 km2
contracted at the end of project preparation) had been satisfactorily produced
(55 percent of the appraisal target) under the technical supervision of
INCRA's Cartography Department (COCAR) at a unit cost of US$126 per km2, e.g.,
88 percent of appraisal estimate.
15.       Identification of land tenure conditions under the project aimed at
confirming the titles of all legitimate land owners, regularizing the tenure
of all rightful occupants, including where necessary the reallocation of
excessively small properties, and providing definitive titles to some 700,000
beneficiaries occupying some 31 million hectaros of mapped rural land distri-
buted among the ten Northeast states. Microfilms of all land registry docu-
ments in 368 municipalities were to be produced by INCRA. The OETs were to
carry out the combined physical identification and adjudication operations up
to the conclusion of work by the special commissions g and the completion of
the team work (Proieto Fundiario, PF) and provide definitive titles to bene-
ficiaries. Foreseen risks of judicial delays and injunctions 1" from unsa-
tisfied claimants and the relatively low efficiency of OET staff were to be
mitigated by improved staff training and studies of possible legislative and
administrative improvements.
16.       By the time of loan closing, a mapped area of about 9.8 million ha
(including available orthophotomaps, line maps and enlarged photographs),
representing about 213,000 farms, had been physically identified and surveyed.
Of these, only 8.2 million ha, covering 171,000 farms, had been adjudicated
(25 percent of the appraisal targets of 31 million ha and 700,000 benefi-
ciaries) at a unit cost of US$400 per km2, e.g., 158 percent of appraisal
estimate. Very slow judicial processes explained an important part of the
difference in progress reported between the physical identification and the
adjudication operations. Adjudication processes which stalled because of lack
of available land in the vicinity to reallocate excessively small properties,
or reluctance from the small farmers themselves to have their properties
reallocated, represented other factors of delay. The issuance of usufruct
rights (CDRUs) to farms below one rural module V was not used as temporary
solution as was originally planned: by loan closing, only some 5,000 CDRUs had
been delivered. Moreover, the effective use of these rights as collateral by
the beneficiaries in order to receive official investment credit is still to
be demonstrated.
4/ Special commissions were vested by INCRA or the OETs with powers to conduct
an adjudication process (discriminatoria administrativa).
5/ "Discriminatoria Judicial" in Portuguese.
6/ The minimal area is defin.ed for each region as one being capable to support
and facilitate the social ard economic progress of the owner and his family.



-9-
17.       Cadastre Implementation and Titling.  Each of the ten project
states was to establish a data bank, or cadastre, to process and store graphic
and literal data generated by the preceding stages. The initial processing
and further updating were planned to be done by the OETs in view of their
legal responsibility for the land titles they produced. INCRA was to define
minimum capacity, basic inputs and outputs, formats, and corresponding hard-
ware and software for these state data banks. Tenure improvements achieved
under the identification/adjudication operations were to be complemented by
regular monitoring of future changes in land ownership, occupation and use.
The production of computerized titling documents was also expected to help
simplify and improve registration procedures.
18.       This component was by far the poorest achiever of the project.
Digitalization of the first literal data collected through field surveys was
initiated by contractors in several states during a transitory period in 1987
while awaiting the definition by INCRA of the data processing equipment at the
state and central levels. It took INCRA/MIRAD, and its advisory data process-
ing agency (SERPRO), more than two years after 1987 to reach the conclusion
that complementary highly specialized data processing equipment, not produced
in Brazil, was required, and to prepare the specifications for such equipment.
It took INCRA another two and a half years, and a three-month suspersion of
Bank loan disbursements, to complete the procurement process of the 12 sets of
urgently needed locally manufactured data processing equipment, and the ICB
documents for the complementary imported equipment. The reason for this
protracted delay laid in largi part with the lack of experience of INCRA's and
SERPRO's cadastral experts in the type of joint alpha-numeric and spatial
database required for the project. By loan closing, some 162,500 titles, or
12 percent of appraisal target, were reportedly issued at a unit cost of US$43
per title, e.g., 253 percent of appraisal estimate.
19.       Project activities in Support of Land Restructuring were to be
carried out by the OETs with the support of INCRA to meet a redistribution
target of 3 million ha benefitting some 130,000 landless farmers in the
selected priority areas of the ten states. In retrospect, the concept and the
scope of this politically sensitive component appear to have been consistently
controversial from project inception on among federal and state land institu-
tions. Apart from including some public land to be recovered by the OETs
through the adjudication process, land to be redistributed was to be mainly
private land acquired through expropriation or purchase. Emphasis was placed
at an early stage by INCRA leadership on the expropriation of unproductive
large estates as the principal source of land for redistribution. This ended
up shifting towards purchase el land when restrictions were introduced in the
existing expropriation regulation by Decree-Law No. 2363 of October 21, 1987,
which also abolished INCRA aid transferred its functions to MIRAD. The
FETAGs, which were until then actively participating through State Land
Commissions (CAEs) in the selection and submission to INCRA of proposals for
expropriation, withdrew from the CAEs. From then on, very few new expro-
priation files were opened by INCRA, and the processing of the ongoing ones
slowed down considerably because of the legal recourse allowed by the new law.
At the same time, purchase of land proceeded very slowly because of funding
shortages.



- 10 -
20.       The methodology recommended by INCRA for the settlement of landless
families in redistributed areas, comprised three phases spread over a five-
year period before reaching the emancipation vJ of the settlers with the
issue of definitive titles. A preliminary phase of six months, including a
series of temporary measures, preceded an active settlement phase of three
years used to delineate the individual plots, plan and organize various types
of assistance, and supervise infrastructure works in the settlement area. The
last eighteen months aimed essentially at consolidating the previous phase and
issuing the definitive titles. At the time of loan closing, about 95,000 km2
(or 32 percent of appraisal estimate) had been redistributed to over 25,000
lundless families (20 percent of appraisal estimate) at a unit cost of
US$1,112 per km2 (151 percent of appraisal estimate).
21.       The project aimed to strengthen the institutional canabilities of
the OETs by providing staff training and technical assistance, as well as
office buildings and equipment. Because of budgetary constraints, construc-
tion of new office buildings was prohibited in early 1989 by a decision of the
Regional Rural Development Commission (CRDR) created to oversee NRDP planning
and implementation. Consequently, only three state office buildings were
constructed and another two rehabilitated under the project, at a cost repre-
senting 25 percent of the appraisal estimate. Similar economy measures were
adopted for the purchase of vehicles, topographic and office equipment and
furniture. Only 217 of the 530 vehicles planned at appraisal were procured,
and the total cost of equipment and furniture, excluding all data processing
equipment, amounted to only 22 percent of the appraisal estimate. Staff
training, carried out mostly under the INCRA/UNDP contract No. BRA 87/022,
represented, with the aerial photogrammetry, the project's major achievements.
Unfortunately, because of rivalries within INCRA/MIRAD, the project Coordinat-
ing Unit did not have the direct responsibility for monitoring and evaluating
the UNDP contract. Therefore, most of the information regarding UNDP project
activities came from either the Bank supervisions or UNDP's own final evalua-
tion report. In addition to the courses and seminars directly organized by
INCRA and the OETs during the project implementation period, the UNDP contract
itself, from June 1987 to August 1991, involved 55 training events and 1,115
trainees, or 64 percent of total appraisal target. Finally, the legal assis-
tance provided under the project to the FETAGs turned out to be generally
ineffective.  The total cost of staff training and technical assistance ended
up exceeding appraisal estimates by 80 percent.
22.       Proiect Administration.  Project administration and supervision
suffered heavily from: (a) repeated changes in structures and key personnel
of the Coordinating Unit (Part III, Annex 1); (b) insufficient authority
delegated by INCRA's Presidency or MIRAD's General Secretariat to deal with
the agency's other directorates and, in particular, the Regional Directorates;
(c) severe shortages or delayed releases of counterpart funds which hindered
field supervision; and (d) lack of adequate per innel policies to maintain the
skill mix required within the Coordinating Unit. The lack of project consoli-
dated accounts at the central level and the reliance on INCRA's Regional
Directorates for the control of the OET accounts also made it impossible for
2/ "EmancipacRo" in Portuguese.



the Coordinating Unit's financial controller to maintain accurate accounts.
The heavily qualified consolidated audit report for the period 1988-1989 bore
witness to these weaknesses. Finally, since these expenditures were not
eligible for 3ank financing, the OETs did not maintain separate accounts for
the incremental administration costs financed by the state budgets. There-
fore, the project Coordinating Unit was unable to provide the Bank with the
corresponding actual costs.
23.       The various institutional. legal and socioeconomic studies aimed at
helping INCRA/MIRAD and the OETs identify possible improvements in the effi-
ciency of land operations, including the means of integrating the multi-
purpose cadastre to be produced with the traditional INCRA/MIRAD fiscal
cadastre, unfortunately never went beyond the stage of the TOR preparation.
This protracted delay was the result of the reservations and/or dissent which
accompanied, within INCRA, the difficult gestation of the new multipurpose
cadastre.
24.       Total Proiect Cost.  The total project cost, excluding project
administration costs, mainly borne by the states and not eligible for Bank
financing, is expected to be US$!10.l million, or 46 percent of the appraisal
estimate of US$240.4 million. This was mainly the result of the extreme
shortage of counterpart funds from the Federal Government throughout the life
of the project but especially in 1989, 1990 and 1991. Expected aggregate
disbursement of US$53.7 million will represent about 54 percent of the Bank
loan amount and 49 percent of the total project costs. The increased Bank
participation, from the original 42 percent, was partly due to the agreement
to finance 100 percent (US$3.4 million) of the Government's share of the
INCRA/UNDP training contract. When excluding tnis incremental funding, the
Bank financed 47 percent of total project costs. The Federal Government
contributed only 40 percent of the counterpart funds originally agreed,
excluding land acquisition funds.
F. Proiect Risks
25.       Most project risks were identified at appraisal, but optimistically
considered manageable. The political risks associated with the support to the
land restructuring component were not fully appreciated; nor was the impact of
Brazil's deteriorating fiscal situation, compounded by the impact of the low
priority assigned to the project by the Federal Government, on counterpart
funding. The technical risks associated with the introduction of a new
sophisticated technology for the establishment and updating of state data
banks were not appreciated. Finally, the proper evaluation of the risks of
(a) adverse political reactions from farmer associations, (b) judicial
obstruction from locally powerful unsatisfied claimants to land ownership,
(c) delay in institutional development and poor collaboration between agen-
cies, (d) low staff efficiency, and (e) delay in the implementation of aerial
photography because of unfavorable weather conditions, should have translated
into a more realistic project timeframe.



- 12 -
G. Proiect Results
26.       General.  The numbers of direct beneficiaries of the land adjudica-
tion and land redistribution components were 25 percent and 20 percent of
appraisal estimates, respectively (about 171,000 properties adjudicated
against 695,000, and about 25,000 redistributed, as against 130,000). In
spite of these modest quantitative achievements, the project helped the North-
east states to achieve greater security of land tenure through expanded use of
modern low-cost aerophotogrammetric techniques in the process of land identi-
fication and improved redistribution procedures for unproductive public or
private land to farmers with little or no land. However, unless appropriate
arrangements are made and financial resources are provided to proceed with the
procurement of imported specialized data processing equipment and the setting
up of the pl:.aned state data banks, now proposed under the ongoing Bank-
financed NRDP state projects, the project has to be considered ineffective in
introducing the proposed new technology for the establishment of a multi-
purpose rural cadastre. Finally, with the exception of some positive stan-
dardization efforts among the states' land laws and regulations, the project
fell short in improving land legislation and court procedures for the judicial
resolution of land conflicts.
27.       Even though project achievements in acquiring and redistributing
land did not exceed 30 percent of appraisal targets, the land area actually
acquired by INCRA through expropriation, represented 75 percent of the
achievements of the National Land Reform Program (NRPA) in the Northeast, and
the area of land redistributed about 50 percent of the NRPA results for the
entire country. However, there is as yet no specific evidence that greater
security of tenure has provided small farmers with better access to on-farm
credit or has had a direct effect on farmers' willingness to invest in
productivity improvements. Such linkages may exist, but will become evident
only through specialized studies in the future after the "emancipation" of
the settlers.
28.       With regard to other expected benefits, related to the reduction in
frequency and level of violence of land conflicts and the decrease in rural/
urban migration and its attendant economic and social costs, available sta-
tistics tended to indicate that the project did not succeed in reversing the
existing trends. Finally, the expected reductions in the administrative costs
to the government of land administration and taxation remain a long-term
prospect. However, the extensive and accurate land surveys carried out under
the land identification component should facilitate the introduction in the
future of a more objective land tax based on the productive potential of the
land rather than on its actual use.
H.  Proiect Sustainability
29.       In spite of the modest implementation record, project's objectives
have been met for the reduced number of beneficiaries. It is expected that
the ex-post evaluations of the ten NRDP state projects will confirm and
quantify the benefits that have derived from the project. Sustainability of
the modest achievements of the land adjudication and redistribution activities



- 13 -
will largely depend on the availability of efficient production support
services provided under the NRDP state projects.
I. Bank's Performance. Borrower's Performance and Prolect Relationship
30.       Bank's Performance.  The Bank's involvement in project preparation
and appraisal was consistent with average Bans inputs for agricultural
projects in Brazil, absorbing a total of 147 staff weeks from identification
through Board presentation. A supervision input, with an above-Pank-average
ye'rly figure of 27 staff weeks (177 staff weeks distributed over a period of
six and a half years), demonstrated the Bank's special efforts to follow up on
the implementation of this politically sensitive and technically ambitioua
project. A total of 29 supervision missions were fielded, of which 20 were
partial missions, staffed with one land specialist who visited one to threc
states at a time. The yearly input peaked during the first three years, at an
average of 44 staff weeks per year, due to the high frequency of state visits
fielded by Recife office staff during this period. Substantial assistance in
technology, ICB procurement and audit was also provided by headquarters staff.
However, this combined effort was not sufficient to resolve the problems
encountered in project implementation.
31.       It is an open question as to whether the time chosen by the Bank to
finally exercise its remedies and suspend loan disbursements three months
before the expiration of the third exten3ion of the loan closing date, and
shortly after INCRA leadership and project coordination underwent a new set of
changes, was the right one. The use of these remedies six months earlier,
when the first signs of non-compliance with the timetable of the 13-month
action plan were detected, could have resulted in earlier corrective measures,
and, possibly, better overall performance in the execution of the action plan.
This could have provided the Bank with a reasonable justification for a fourth
one-year extension of the loan closing date to try 6o achieve the proposed
reduced targets. Instead, the actual timing of the sanction precluded the
possibility of any further extension other than an exceptional and restricted
one.
32.       Borrower's Performance.  The Borrower cooperated closely and
efficiently with Bank missions during the preparation, appraisal and post-
appraisal of the project, and was generallv supportive of supervision missions
and open to suggestions for improvement. However, the Borrower did not
provide the required timely counterpart funding, because of fiscal constraints
stemming from the protracted economic crisis, but also because of the low
priority given to the project as a result of the lack of political commitment
from the Federal and, often, the State Governments. This low priority,
compounded by repeated structural changes and administrative reshufflings,
resulted in considerable delays in decision-making, important shortfalls in
project implementation, weak interagency coordination and ineffective project
monitoring and evaluation. However, within these constraints, OETs' staff
resources were reasonably deployed and trained.
33.       Proiect Relationship.  The relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower remained good throughout the implementation period in spite of the
severe financial and institutional constraints imposed on the project.



- 14 -
However, the Bank's refusal to respond favorably to the Borrower's late
request for a fourth one-year extension of the loan closing date strained to
some degree this relationship, until the possibility of continued Bank
assistance for the establishment of state data banks through the ongoing NRDP
state projects was identified.
J. Conclusions and Lessons Learned
34.       The following were the main lessons learned in implementing this
project:
(a)   It is essential to predict correctly the Government's pclitical
will to implement ambitious programs to extend the benefits of secure land-
ownership to a large number of small farmers and improve land policies and
administration. Although this project tried to develop efficient metho-
dologies for doing so, the ultimate impact was undermined by a lack of poli-
tical will to regulate the land-related articles of the 1988 Constitution and
to challenge vested interests. This missina official commitment. which trans-
lated into chronic counterpart fundina shortfalls and institutional problems.
would have been secured more easily had the controversial land redistribution
component been eliminated from the Droiect: on the other hand. this elimina-
tion could have rendered a'.readv difficult farmer participation and 1poiular
support even more iproblematicel.
(b)   It is clear that the proposed time frame of three and a half years
for proiect implementation was overly oiptimistic given the political sensiti-
vity of the project actions and the emerging macroeconomic problema. Also,
events which occurred during project implementation, such as the new interpre-
tation of the 1964 Land Law ("Estatuto da Terra") in the related articles of
the new Constitution made it difficult for the project to be executed within
the original time frame.
(c)   The new methodoloav to be introduced and developed under the
proiect for the establishment of a multipurpose state cadastre needed to be
thorouahlv discussed. understood and agreed with INCRA before the start of
implementation. The protracted delay in the procurement of the urgently
needed data processing equipment, both locally manufactured and imported,
stemmed mainly from reservations and/or lack of experience of INCRA and the
Data Processing Agency (SERPRO) technical staff regarding the type of joint
alpha-numeric and spatial data base required for the project.
(d) When the success of a project is dependent on close cooperation
among many implementing agencies, the coordinating entity should be able to
attract and retain competent technical, financial and managerial staff and
should be delegated sufficient authority to ensure efficient implementation.
The various structural changes which took place within INCRA and the Ministry
of Agrarian Reform and Development (MIRAD) after the extinction of the Direc-
torate of Integration with States and Territories (DI) in 1986, never vested
the Coordinating Unit with the level of authority needed to deal with the
other INCRA directorates and, in particular, the regional directorates. In
future, the Bank should be more forthcomina in exercisina its remedies when
Institutional/organizational weaknesses threaten to undermine implementation.



- 15 -
(e)   A well-planned monitoring and evaluation system should be designed
at appraisal and is indispensable to provide timely feedback on the pace and
cuality of implementation, to identify changes in strateay or scope recruired,
and to measure project impact. Evaluation arrangements were not well designed
at appraisal; the external evaluation, by independent consultants to be hired
by INCRA, of the performance and progress of the land tenure system did not
take place as planned; and the impact of land activities on the target popu-
lation and on rural development activities is still to be evaluated in each
state by Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE) under
the respective NRDP state projects. Such impact evaluatior. is needed to help
the Government prepare any follow-up land tenure project in Brazil.
(f)   In the Brazilian administrative and political setup. efficient
proiect implementation and beneficiary participation are significantly
compromised for regional Droiects because of the implicit built-in split
between financial responsibility and control (INCRA/MIRAD) and managerial
responsibilities (State Land Institutes (OETs) and because of the existence of
a complicated and ineffective three-tier channel of funds (Federal Treasury,
Ministry of Interior (MINTER), INCRA) between the federal agencies themselves.
K. Proiect Documentation and Data
35.       The Staff Appraisal Report and accompanying Working Papers would
have provided the necessary framework for the Borrower and the Bank to
implement the project, had the Borrower demonstrated its sustained, full
commitment to the objectives of the project in making available adequate
counterpart funding. The detailed quarterly progress reports regularly
prepared since mid-1987 by the project Coordinating Unit within INCRA provided
most of physical and financial data relevant to the preparation of the Part
III of the PCR. However, state level data were often not properly maintained
by the OETs, and various discrepancies were spotted by supervision missions
during the implementation period.



- 17 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Comments on Part I
1.        Introduction.  The description and analysis of the project from the
Bank's viewpoint is almost exactly the same as that of the Borrower, with the
exception of several observations regarding management and political support
for the project. Thus, for example, with the advent of the so-called "New
Republic" which occurred with the swearing-in of the new Federal Government in
March of 1985, and despite the signing of Project and Loan Agreements in
October of 1985, the lack of institutional support for the project became
evident with the preparation of the New Republic's first National Agrarian
Reform Plan (PNRA). In the view of some former directors of the National
Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA), the Project was reac-
tionary and anti-reformist in that, through the adjudication process, it could
consolidate and grant title to large rural properties which were not legally
occupied. In the same way, these authorities understood that the mobilization
of financial and human resources simply for land .enure regularization consti-
tuted a scattering of efforts and scarce resources, when the proposed agrarian
reform--with its oversized goals, it might incidentally be said--was the admi-
nistration's main objective.
2.        Only during the middle of the referred administration, when the
non-feasibility of the first National Agrarian Reform Program became evident
and public opinion became saturated with the emotional treatment of the agra-
rian reform issues, did federal and state actions regarding the land tenure
sector begin to lose their original thrust. Coincidentally, during this
period the Federal Government's financial condition began to worsen, making
national counterpart funding steadily more difficult. The economic and
financial crisis that affected the country made it difficult to finance the
project, which was not a priority either for the Federal Government or the new
state governments then in power, due to the saturation caused by the land
question and exacerbated by the way that the issue was treated during the
first years of the "New Republic."
3.        Along these lines, although we are almost in complete agreement
with the evaluation contained in Part I of this Report, we raise several
issues for the purpose of assisting in the final evaluation of the project and
of directing possible future actions in this area.
4.        Proiect Concept and ImDlementation.  The National Land Administra-
tion Program was created with a view to seeking to take advantage of expe-
rience accumulated by INCRA in adjudicating unoccupied federal lands in the
AmAzon and the frontier regions which took place on an intensive basis from
1976 to 1985, as well as under the Land Tenure Regularizatic.1 Project,
financed by the Interamerican Development Bank and carried out, with relative
success, in five Northeastern states. The purpose of the Project was to
consolidate the State Land Agencies (OETs) created by the States, with INCRA's
encouragement, to manage unoccupied state lands and cooperate in the agrarian
reform process in their respective areas.



- 18 -
5.        When the Bank entered into the process, the project underwent tech-
nical modifications, broadened its objectives, ard consequently its management
became more complex. There was something of a reciprocal complicity in the
formation of a complex tec;inical and institutional model whose operational
oostacles were underestimated and their solutions outlined with excessive
optimism. The corporative state of mind of the staff of the institutions
involved, for example, was a silent obstacle to project development, and the
weight of the bureaucracy in setting up deadlines for the channelling of funds
was ignored, as if a federal or state administration could be transformed by
simpiy' signing a contractual arrangement (convenio).
6.        Project planning lacked a greater involvement in activities by
INCRA's Regional Superintendencies. In this case, two issues should be
underlined: first, since INCRA is an agency with a systematic organizational
structure, with each central agency represented at the regional level, the
closing of the Directorate of Integration (DI) created serious operational
difficulties for project activities at the superintendency level, since the
Project Coordination Unit was precarious and non-institutional; second, the
Project Coordination Unit, in dealing directly with the OETs, preparing and
strengthening them for more efficient action in the states, in certain cases
gave rise to resentment by INCRA's Regional Superintendencies, absent from the
Project, especially in later years when, in spite of everything, OETs' finan-
cial resources released for the project turned out to be greater than those
availabl' for the Regional Superintendencies.
7.        Another issue which was either not considered or was poorly evalu-
ated during project preparation was the capacity of certain sectors of the
country's cartography industry to obstruct or avoid international bidding,
which caused considerable delay in the project's timetable due to obstacles
that had to be overcome. Also, the phenomenon of resistance to change, which
was very evident in the behavior of some former INCRA Directors of Cadastre;
this phenomenon was sometimes disguised beneath ideology with the backing of
the data processing services agency's staff (SERPRO) which at that time had no
technical background in graphic processing and data-banks, in the modern sense
of the term.
8.        It also seems important to state that the constant delays, lack of
continuity, insufficiency, and at times even the freezing of counterpart
funds, not only made it difficult to carry out operational plans, but also
made it impossible to monitor technical and administrative activities of the
OETs as well as the training of their personnel, which caused a gradual loss
of quality in work in the technical and administrative areas, due to the
turnover of their respective staff.
9.        Another fact that should be stated, since it directly affected the
project, is the great number of times that the land institution's management
staff and its own structural organization were changed, making it impossible,
even for those who came to understand the project, to give it more effective
support and especially to ensure necessary continuity in actions. Since it
did not belong to INCRA's formal structure, the Project Coordination Unit
underwent situations both of prestige and isolation with respect to INCRA as a
whole, which created difficulties in dealing with the agency's day-to-day



- 19 -
technical, administrative and financial problems. The final result was in
fact a gradual and progressive dismantling of the Project Coordination Unit,
with growing difficulties in keeping its staff and giving technical and
administrative support the OETs.
B. Prolect Impact and Lessons Learned
10.       In spite of the fact that about 50 percent of the external financ-
ing will end up being canceled and the percentages of achievement for some
project targets have been relatively low, the project's impact has been one of
modernity in land administration both at INCRA's and OETs' levels. In a
certain w2', the project, in relation to the Bank's viewpoint, ended up in the
way it shc ld have begun had the original design been respected. Graphic
processing and data banks are now considered by the OETs as necessary and
naturally required for their land administration activities, and at INCRA's
level, the technical cadastre or "multipurpose cadastre," is now viewed as
necessary and feasible, particularly with the availability of orthophotomaps
and the use of the central data processing equipment to be procured. These
psychological changes are going to allow the future use, through the govern-
ment's own resources, of the aerophotogrammetric products already available as
well as of satellite imagery.
11.       As far as the Bank is concerned, its decision to exercise its
contractual remedies by suspending loan disbursements should have taken into
consideration the situation of the Borrower in its broader aspects and, in
particular, the ongoing ICB contracts and the implications of the sanction on
all the parties involved. It should be mentioned that the Borrower found this
decision inopportune, since it deprived the project of the possibility of a
new extension of the Loan Closing Date at a time when project issues were
being tackled. The lack of proper monitoring of the sector policies and
economies deprived the Bank from becoming, through the PDSFN, an important
participant in the Land Reform Program recently launched by the Federal
Government.



21 -
PART IU  - STATISTXCAL  !NFORP           t
Table 1: IELATED BANK LOANS RELEVANT TO TRE PROJECT
Localization                      Loan         Land Component                 Closing   PCR           Achievements I.L
Loan Number                       Signature   Content and Size                Date      Issue
Project ritle                     Date         (% of Loan Amount)                       Date
State of BAHIA
Loan 1580 BR                       06178       Land titling services and land  08/86    06/87   Land titling: 50% of A.T.
Babia P .ral Development Project               acquisition                                      Land Acquisition: disappointing
-Paraguacu                                     (7% of L.A.)                                     Component Cost: 31%e of A.E
-an 2269-BR                       05183       Land regularization and        12189     03/91   Land Regularization: 52% of A.T.
.-d Babia Rural Development                  redistribution                                    Land Redistribution: 8% of A.T.
roject                                       (24% of L.A.)                                     Component Cost: 15% of A.E.
State of CEARA
Loan 1924-BR                       01/81       Cadastre survey, land tiding and  12/87  03/90   Cadastral Survey: 59% of A.T.
Ceara Second Rural Development                 purcmase                                         Land ritling: 180% of A.T.
Project                                        (33% of L.A.)                                    Component Cost: 56% of A.E.
State of IMtARNHAO
an 2177-BR                      06/82        Land regularization and        12/89     06/91   Land Regularization: 65% A.T.
saranhao Rural Development                    redistribution                                   Land Titling: 25% of A.T.
roject                                       (33% of L.A.)                                     Component Cost: 64% of A.E.
State of MINAS GERAIS
an 1877-BR                      09t80        Land titling services          12/87     03/90   Land ratling: 82% of A.T.
nac Gerais Second Rural                     (less than .5% of L.A.)                           Component Cost 140% of A.E.
evelopment Project
State of PIAUT
Loan 2015-BR                       08/81       Land development               12/86     06/89   Land Adjudication: 45% A.T.
Piaui Rural Development Project                (20% of L.A.)                                    Land Purchase: 70% of A.T.
Component Cost: 60% of A.E.
Includes: O  % of Appr2isal Tagot (A.T.); and (II actual cost as % of Appraisal Esdmates (A.E.)



- 22 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                   Planned Date                 Revised Date                   Actual Date
Identification 1/              June 1983                                                   June 1983
Preparation I 2/               October 1983                                                October 1983
it                 April 1984                                                  April 1984
Appraisal                      June 1984                                                   June 1984
Post Appraisat                 October-November 1984                                       October-November 1984
Loan Negotiations              January 1985                                                January 1985
Board Approval                 May 7, 1985 3/                                              June 25, 1985 3/
Loan Signature                 October 15, 1985                                            October 15, 1985
Loan Effectiveness             January 13, 1986 4/                                         March 25. 1986 4/
Project Completion             March 31, 1988                                              not completed
Suspension of Disbursments                                                                 July 5, September 27, 1991
Loan Closing                   september 30, 1988           September 30, 1989,
September 30, 1990,
September 30, 1991             February 29, 1992 S/
1/     Project identification made by TBRD staff.
2/     Preparation carried out by INCRA with assistance from IBRO staff.
3/     Delay in compLying with condition of Board presentation involving the m6dification of existing aerial
photogrammetry regulations so as to permit ICS procurement.
4/     In spite of compLiance with the specific conditions for loan effectiveness, the non-compliance with
dated covenants initially set for January 1986 entailed two months, deLay in loan effectiveness.
Retroactive financing of expenditures incurred prior to January 1, 1985, was made subject to the
signing of the Subsidiary Project Agreements States/INCRA/SUDENE.
5/     For ICB contracts No. 01/87 only.



- 23 -
Table 3: CUMULATIVE . ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Bank FY          1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991       1992
Appraisal        33.0    68.0    96.00   100.00  --        --       --
Estimate 21
Actual           --       14.37   22.50   28.30   32.03   41.21    53.7 V
Actual as Z
Appraisal        0        21.1    23.4    28.3    32.0    41.2      53.7
Estimate
1/ Including all or part of the original deposit of US$8.0 million into the
Special Account.
2/ An estimated initial amount of US$42.0 million was canceled, effective
March 1, 1992. Final disbursement against the loan is expected to be made
before June 30, 1992, and the final balance, currently estimated at US$4.3
million, will be canceled after the closing of the loan account.



TABLE 4A - PROJECT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (AS OF 02/28/92)
AS COMPARED WITH APPRAISAL TARGETS
STATES                                 ALAGOAS              BAHIA                  CEARA                MARANHAO              MINAS GERAIS           PARAIBA            PERNAMBUCO
AEROPHOT.                 UNIT   PLANNED I/ ACTUAL   PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED          ACTUAL   PLANNED       ACTUAL    PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED    ACTUAL
Aerial Coverage          km2      27,653    21,686   141,698   128,708    64,783         62,477    66,326       80,913     40,801    54,872    25,855    21,742    54,925    52,966
Products:
Enlargements            km2                            -         15,000     -            1,700                  3,200                 7,050     -          --                   -
Yr 0 Orthoph/line maps km2                  6,066                10,380                 10.043                (8,2u0) 2/              6,764               11,748               15,882
New Orthophoto maps    km2       27,653     -        141,698    44,697    64,783        16,453    66,326       38.909    40,801    28,611    25,855        5,819    54,925    26,782
Totat                   km2     27,653      6,066   141,698    70,077    64,783        28,196    66,326        42,109     40,801    42,425    25,855    17,567    54,925    42,664
CAOASTRE.
Phys.ldent.
Area                    km2      11,486     4,314    83,872    24,525    43,470         11,689    16,630        3,073     27,038    13,565    15,137    10,873    32,182       8,690
Nr.Tenure               unit    57,000    31,511   167,000    40,246    97,000          26.139    30.000        2,611      18,000    14,786    38,000    30,5S8   119,000    32.496
Legal Ident.
Area                    km2      11,486     3,562    83,872    22,051    43,470          5,438    16,630        8,111 5/ 27,038       6,540    15,137      8,856    32,182     B,364
Nr.Tenure               unit    57,000    29,701   167,000    35,595    97,000           6,936    30,000        9,349 -18000          7,923    38,000    22,586   119,000    30,871
LAND RECOVERY             ha       67,300     5,244   804,200   247,785   631,700        120,610   600,000      491,728    182,000    73,495   102,400       6,664   143,000    25,619
by INCRA/MIRAD           ha                  3,310              247,785                 109,875                322,414                44,073                3,919               9,846
Exprop. 3/              ha                  1,408              247,785                109,875                322,414                44,073                3,919                9,114
Purch./Other            ha                  1,902                    0                       0                      0                     0                    0                 732
By OET:                  ha                  1,934                     0                 10,735                169,314                29,422                2,745              15,773
Legal Ident.            ha                      0                    0                  3,334                 161,492                     0                    0                   0
Purch./Other            ha                  1,934                                        7,401                  7,822                29,422                2,745              15, m7
LAND REDIST.
Total:
Area                    ha       67,300     6,520   804,200   190,060   631,700        137,529   600,000     370,895    182,000    45,540   102,400    10,757   143,000    33,219
Nr.Benefic.             unit     4,700        344    29,100      3,562    20,600        4,443    20,000        9,780       5,700      1,139    12,800      1,009    11,400     1,633
fy INCRA:
Area                    ha                  4,701              190,060                130,611                204,081                21,549                7,587               17,918
mr.0enefic.             uiCt                  308                3,625                  4,100                  6,091                    254                  596                 787
By OfT:
Area                    ha                  1,819                0                      6,918                 166,814                29,422                3,170              15,751
Nr. Benefle.            unit                   61                0                         311                  3,689                   985                  413                 944
TITLYNG:
Total                   unit    61,700      1,983   196,100      5,114   117,600         1,592    50,000       11,591     23,700          0    50,800    29,478   130,400      2,898
Titles Regul.           unit                1,983                                                              8,019                      0              23,071                1,892
Titles Redist.          unit                                     5,114                     100                                            0               6,243                1,006
CDRU Deliv.             unit                                     -                       1,492                  3,572                     0                  164                   0
EXPRO.IN PROCESS: 4/
u.P.D.w/o O.R.          ha                      0               19,046                 41,999                208,153                28,327                  533
w/o/P.D.                ha                  3,460               76,918                 84,797                452,784                52,696               10,816               17 812
Total                                       3,460               95,964                126,796                660,937                81,023               11,349               17:812
I/ Planned figures are appraisal targets or adjusted targets (as amended in May 1987).
2/ Orthophotomaps produced under the PDRI (Ln. 2177-BR) not included in the total.
3/ Land recovered through expropriation (with INCRA's ownership recognition) after 03/15/85. At that time INCRA's land stock amounted to 52,695 ha.
4/ P.O. means Presidential Decree; O.R. means ownership recognition (emissao da posse).
5/.Physical IdentIfIcation carried out under the PORI (Loan 2177-BR).



TABLE 4A, CONT. - PROJECT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (AS OF 02/28/92)
W    RPREIr        APAISAL IN
X APPRAISAL
STATES                    UNIT       PIAJI                  RCN                SERGIPE                 TOTAL               TARGETS
AEROPHOT.                         PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED         ACTUAL  PLANNED        ACTUAL
Aerial Coverage          1c2      94,439   100,031    19,536    23.817    21,994         11,863   558,010      559,075         0OO
Products:
Enlargements            km2                                                             -                      26,950           -
Yr 0 Orthoph/line maps kW2                 16,274                6,098                   4.997                 88:252
Noe Orthophoto maps    kW2       94,439    46,587    19,536    10,268    21,994         -        558,010      218,126         55
Totat                   kW2      94,439    62,861    19,536    16,366    21,994         4,997   558,010       333,328         60
CADASTRE.
Phys.ldent.
Area                    km2      64,107    12,891    13.070       5 687     6,017        2,436   313,009       97,743          32
Nr.Tenure               unit   104,000      3,725    28,000       6,524    37,000       23,953   695,000      212,549          31
Legal Ident.
Area                    km2      64,107    11 635    13,070      4 821      6,01.        2,099   313,009       81,477          26
Nr.Tenure               unit   104,000      1,839    28,000      5,765    37,000        20,648   695.000      171,213         25
LAND RECOVERY             ha      276,100   101,946   198,800    49,228    51,400         13,438 3,056,900   1,135,757          38
by INCRA/HIRAD           ha                 10,729               44,612                  10,928                807,491
Exprop. 3/              ha                 10,729               44,612                  10,928               804,857
Purch./Other            he                      0                     0                      0                  2,634
By 0ET:                  ha                 91.2176/              4,616                  2,510                328,266
Legal Ident.            ha                      0                     0                      0                164,826                                                             un
Purch./Other            ha                 91,217                4,616                  2,510                 163,440
LAND REDIST.
Total:
Area                    ha      276,100   100 946   198,800    45,129    51.400         12,434 3,056,900     953,029          32
Hr.Benefic.             unit    14,800      1,060      6,500      1,520     3,900          818   129,500       25,308         20
By INCRA:
Area                    ha                  9,729               40,513                  9,924                636,673
Nr.Benefic.             unit                  281                 1,212                   433                  17,687
By OET:
Area                    ha                 91,217 6/             4,616                  2,001                321,728
Nr. Benefic.            unit                  779                  308                    385                   7,875
TITIlNG:
Total                   unit   118,800        254    34,500      1.100    40,900       49,4577/ 824,500      103,467          12
Titles Regul.           unit                  254                1,100                 39,549-                75,868
Titles Redist.          unit                  -                      0                  9,908                 22,371
CDRU Deliv.             unit                                         0                                         5,228
EXPRO.IN PROCESS: 4/      ha
w.P.D.v/o O.R.          ha                  3,820                  400                302,278
u/ojP.D.                ha                 83,958                7,043                830,223
Total                                      87,778                7,443              1,132,501
6/ Land purchased urder the POLONORDESTE Program.
7/ Likely, including titles issued outside the area of the POSfN.



TABLE 4B - PROJECT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICRT9RM (AS OF 02/28/92)
AS COMPARED UIIH REVISED TARGETS PROPOSFO IN AtGliCST 1092f l_Tmnij DP
STATES                                  ALAGOAS               BAHIA                  CEARA                  MARANHAO              MINAS GERAIS             PARAIBA            PERNAMBUCO
AERDPHOP .                 UNIT   PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED            ACTUAL   PLANNED        ACTUAL    PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED    ACTUAL
Aerial Coverage           km2      27,653    21,686   141,698   128,708    64,783           62,477    66,326        80,913      40,801    54,872    25,855    21,742    54,925    52,966
Products:
Enlargements             km2       -                               15,000      -            1,700      -            3,200       -          7,050     -
Yr 0 Orthoph/line maps km2                    6,066                10,380                  10,043                (8,200) 2                6,764                11,748                15,882
New Orthophoto maps    km2        27,653      -        141,698    44,697    64,783         16,453    66,326        38,909     40,801    28,611    25,855        5,819    54,925    26,782
Total                    km2      27,653      6,066   141,698    70,077    64,783          28,196    66,326       42,109      40,801    42,425    25,855    17,567    54,925    42,664
CADASTRE.
Phys.ldent.
Area                     km2       5,110      4,314    29,116    24,525    15,272          11,689    24,413         3,073      16,369    13,565    11,948    10,873    13,003        8,690
Nr.Terure                unit    41,088    31,511    46,089    40,246    15,926            26,139    23,753         2,611      19,759    14.786    31,893    30,558    45,275    32,496
Legal Ident.
Area                     km2       5,110      3,562    29,116    22,051    15,272           5,438    24,413         8,1115/   16,369       6,540    11,948      8,856    13,003       8,364
Nr.lenure                unit    41,088    29,701    46,089    35,595    15,926             6,936    23,753         9,349      19,759      7,923    31,893    22,586    45,275    30,871
LAND RECOVERY              ha       14,900      5,244   353,600   247,785   226,000         120,610   487,500      491,728    106,900    73,495    13,900         6,664    45,200    25,619
by INCRA/MIRAD            ha                   3,310               247,785                 109,875                322,414                 44,073                 3,919                9,846
Exprop. 3/               ha                   1,408              247,785                  109,875                322,414                 44,073                 3,919                9,114
Purch.JOther             ha                   1,902                     0                       0                       0                      0                    0                  732
By OET:                   ha                   1,934                     0                  10,735                 169,314                .?,422                 2,745                15,773
Legal Ident.             ha                       0                     0                  3,334                 161,492                       0                    0                    0
Purch./Other             he                   1,934                                         7,401                   7.822                29,422                 2,745               15,77M
LAND REDIST.
Total:
Area                     ha       14,900      6.520   353,600   190,060   226,000         137,529   487,500      370,895    106,900    45,540    13,900    10,757    45,200    33,219 I
Ur.Benefic.              unit        742        344      6,687      3,562      7,054       4,443    13,195         9,780       2,669      1,139        939      1,009     2,118      1,633
By INCRA:
Area                     ha                   4,701              190,060                 130,611                 204,081                 21,549                 7,587               17,918
Nr.Benefic.              unit                   308                3,625                   4,100                   6,091                    254                   596                  787
By OET:
Area                     ha                   1,819                 0                      6,918                 166,814                 29,422                 3,170               15,751
Nr. Benefic.             unit                    61                0                          311                  3,689                    985                   413                  944
TITLING:
Total                    unit    41,830       1,983    52,776      5,114    22,980         1,592    36,948        11,591      22,428          0    32,832    29,478    47,393        2,898
Titles Regul.            unit                 1,983                                       -                        8,019                      0               23,071                 1,892
Titles Redist.           unit                 -                    5,114                      100                 -                           0                6,243                 1,006
CDRU Deliv.              unit                 -                     -                       1,492                  3,572                      0                   164                     0
EXPRO.IN PROCESS: 4/
W.P.D.u/o O.R.           ha                       0               19,046                  41,999                 208,153                 28,327                  533
w/o/P.D.                 ha                   3,460               76,918                  84,797                 452,784                5,696                10,816                17.812
Total                    ha                  3,460                95,964                 126,796                 660,937                 81,023               11,349                17,812
1/ Plamed figures are appraisal targets for aerophotogranmetric services and revised targets (proposed in 13-month Action Plan of July-August, 1990) for land regularization
and land redistribution activities.
2/ Orthophotomaps produced under the PORI (Ln. 2177-BR) not included in the total.
3/ Land recovered through expropriation (with INCRA's ownership recognition) after 03/15/85. At that time INCRA's land stock amounted to 52,695 ha.
4/ P.D. means Presidentiat Decree; O.R. means ownership recognition (emissao da posse).
5/ Physical identification carried out under the PORI (Loan 2177-OR).



TABLE 4B, CONT.  - .ERCTELTKFY P BWRF  ATJCEINftCAIQRS.IAS OF 02/28/92)
AS COMPARED WITH REVIS 0 TARGETS PROPOSEO IN AUGUST 1990 ACTION PLAN
X REVISED
STATES                                     PIAUI                RGN              SERCIPE                  TOTAL            TARGETS
AEROPHOT.                 UNIT   PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED    ACTUAL   PLANNED          ACTUAL  PLANNED        ACTUAL
Aerial Coverage          km2      94,439   100,031    19,536    23,817    21,994         11,863   558,010      559,075         100
Products:
Enlargements            km?       -                               -          -          -                      26,950
ir 0 orthoph/line maps km?                 16,274                6,098                  4,997                  88,252           -
New Orthophoto maps   kim2       94,439    46,587    19,536    10,268    21,994         -        558,010      218,126           -
Total                   km2     94,439    62,861    19,536    16,366    21,994          4,997   558,010       333,328         55
CADASTRE.
Phys.Ident.
Area                    km2      17,504    12,891      9,428     5,687      3,974        2,436   1',6,137      97,743         67
Nr.Tenure               unit      2,766     3,725    11,381      t,524    30,894       23,953   268,u24        i.2,549        79
Legal Ident.
Area                    km2      17,504    11,635      9,4.3     4,1:21     3,974        2,099   146,137       81,477         56
Nr.Tenure               unit      2,766     1,839    11,3e,         ;Z     30,894      20,648   268,824       171,213         64
LAND RECOVERY             ha      122,400   101,946    71,300    49,228    21,400         13,438 1,463,100   1,135,757          78
by INCRA/HIRAD           ha                 10,729               44,612                  10,928                807,491
Exprop. 3/              ha                 10,729               44,612                  10,928               804,857
Purch./Other            ha                      0                     0                      0                  2,634
By OET:                  ha                 91,217._              4,616                  2,510                328,266
Legal Ident.            ha                      0                    0                      0                 164,826
Purch./Other            ha                 91,217 6/             4,616                  2,510                 163,440
LAND REDIST.
Total:
Area                    ha      122.400   100,946    71,300    45,129    21,400        12,434 1,463,100      953,029          66
Nr.Beneflc.             unit      1,285     1,060      2,264     1,520      1,181         1l3    30,134       25,308          67
By INCRA:
Area                    ha                  9,729               40,513                  9,924                636,673
Nr.eenefic.             unit                  281                1,212                    433                 17,687
By OET:
Area                    ha                 91,217                4,616                  2,001                321,728
Nr. Benefic.            unit                  779                  308                    385                  7,875
TITLING:
Total                   unit     4,051        254    13,645      1,100    32,075       49,4577/306,958       103,467          33
Titles Regul.           unit                  254                1,100                 39,549-                75,868
Titles Redist.          unit                -                        0                  9,908                 22,371
CORU Deliv.             unit                -                        0                 -                       5,228
EXPRO.1N PROCESS: 4/
w.P.D.w/o O.R.          ha                  3,820                .   0                    400                302,278
w/o/P.D.                ha                 83,958               39,939                  7,043                830,223
Total                                      87,778               39,939                  7,443              1,132,501
6/ Land purchased under the POLONORDESTE Program.
7/ Likely, including    titles issued outside the area of the PDSFN.



- 28 -
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS (CONSOLIDATED)
(USS mi.lion)
Item/No.                                         SAR Estimates                   Actual
Total    Distrib.              Total       X of
$SAR Estim.
1. Aerial Photoaramnetry                            91.2         36.4                49.4       54.2
a) Aerial Photography                    11.3                         10.7
b) ICS and LCB Photogramwnetrlc          79.9                         38.7  /
Services (Ground Control, Aerial
Triangulation and photomapping)
2. Land Tenure Identification                        79.2        31.6                32.6       41.2
3. Cadastre and Titlin2                               14.2        5.6                 4.4       31.2
4. Suogrt for Land Restructuring                     22.5         9.0                10.6       47.1
5. Institutfonal Strengthening                       31.8         12.7               13.1       41.2
a) BuiLdings                              5.9                         1.3
b) Data Processing Equipment
Locally Manufactured               7.1                          .4 I/
Iiported                           -
c) Other Equipment                         14.2                        3.1
d) Staff Training and Technical Asst.    4.6                           8.3 V
6.Prolect Administration                              10.1         4.1              n.av.       n.av.
7.Studies                                             1.6          .6                --          0.0
TOTAL                                         250.5 J1   100.0                110.1 5L   45.8 J
Land Fund                                       --                              5.0
1/ Twelve sets of locally manufactured data processing equipment procured in October 1991.
2/ Includes INCRA/UNOP training contract No. BRA 87/022 for US$3.76 million, including USS.3 million UNDP
grant.
3/ Includes about US$7.5 million of local taxes.
4/ Relates to SAR estimates minus administration costs.
5/ Estimated as of 02/29/92.



- 29 -
Table 6A:   PROJECT FINANCING
(USS miltion)
Expected in SAR        As Amended at               Final Y
Effectiveness
Source of Funds
Total     CX)          Total       CX)           Total        (X)
ISRD Loan                                    100.0     39.9        100.0       39.9         53.7           53.7
Co-financing Foreifn Institutions
IDS Loan                                 40.0      16.0         -           -      -                    -
UNDP Grant                                    -    -                                       .3 Y         --
Government
rederal                                 100.5      40.1        140.5       56.1         56.1          39.9
State                                    10.0       4.0         10.0       -4.0        n.av.           n.av.
TOTAL                                        250.5     100.0       250.5       100.0        110.1          45.8
J Estimated values, to be confirmed after the closing of loan account.
) UNOP grant uider the INCRA/UNDP training contract No. BRA/87/022.



- 30 -
Table 6B: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(USS million)
Actual Disbursement
Category                    Original          Revised 1/           Total        X of Revised
ALlocation         Allocation                        Allocations
(1) ICB Photogramnmetric Services             38.0               38.0              21.7 V    57.1
(other than aerial
photography)
(2) Goods and Services for:
-Land Tenure Identification       27.0)              27.0)              16.4)
-Cadastre and Titling              4.5)               4.5)               2.2)
-Support for Land Restructuring    7.4)    47.8       7.4)   47.8        5.3)   32.0      66.9
-Institutional Strengthening       9.1)               9.1)               8.1)
-imported Data Processing
Equipment                                  --                 1.2               --        0.0
(3) Consultants' Services                       1.5               1.5                -        0.0
(4) Initial Deposit in S.A.                    8.0                8.0               --        0.0
(5) Unallocated                                A                  3-                          -
100.0             100.0             53.7 V     53.7
./ As amended on 12/11/90.
2/ Estimated as of 02/29/92.
Comments on Allocation of Loan Proceeds.
The unused allocation of USS1.2 million for the financing at 100X of inported highly specialized data
processing equipment is expected to be provided for urder Loan 2523-BR.



-31-
Table 7A:  PROJECT RESULTS - DIRECT BENEFITS
Physical Taraets 1/                    Cost Per Unit
(US$)
Estimated          Actual           Z of   Est.        Act.    % of
Indicators           Unit                 (SAR)             of SAR           SAR   (SAR)        (PCR)    SAR
Pre-Cadastral Ooerations
-Aerial Photography           Knj                558,000             559,075          100   20           19       95
-Photogrammetric Services   Km2                  558,000             306,378           55   143          126       88
-Microfilm. of Land Reg.    No.of                 368 2/                  193          52   n.av.       n.av.    .
Munic
-Physical Identification
-Area                      KmS                313,000              97,744          31
-No. of Tenures            Unit              695,000              212,549          31
-Legal Identification
-Area                      KW2               313,000               81,477          26   253          400      158
-No. of Tenures           Unit               6.5,000              171,213          25   114          190      167
Land Redistribution
-Total Land Recovered         Ka?                 30,600               11,357          37
Through
-Expropriation              KmS      21,400                8,048                 8,048
-Legal Identification       Kin )                          1,648                 1,648
-Purchase & other means   Kaf )       9,200                1,661                 1,661
-Land Redistributed
-Area                       Kb                  30,600               9,530 3/       31   735          1,112   151
-Beneficiaries              No.                129,500              25,308 2I        20   174           419   241
Data Banks                    Titig
(Literal & Graphic)
-Titles                     No.                824,500             102,467 /        12    17             43   253
i! Legal Documents as amended on May 15, 1987 (Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement).
I/ Complementing the microfilms already existing for 196 municipalities.
3I 6.367 Kin' by INCRA for 17,687 beneficiaries and 3,127 KW by OETs for 7,875 beneficiaries.
4/ Of which 5,228 CORUs.



- 22 -
Table 7B: PROJECT RESULTS - INST1UTIONAL STRENGTHEhiNG. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRASING
Indicators                                      Unit              Estimated               Actual
(SAR)                   (PCR)
OETs' Headguarters 1/
-Built, equipped                               No.                  9                    3 (PI,RN,PB)
-Rehabilitated, equipped                       No.                  I (MG)               2 (MA,CE)
OETs' Vehicles
Leaal Assistance to FETAGs
-Municipalities attended                       No.                 564                   399 2/
-Legal advsers appointed                       No.                  81                    54 2V
StaffTrainin&g
-2.5 month courses for topographers,           No. of Trainees     700
agonomists and field technicians
-Courses for data processing and                      ^             60
mapping specialists
-Courses for managers                                              180
-Various seminars                                    '             800
Total                                                          1,740
INCRA/UNDP Training Contract
No. BRA 87/022 3/
-2-month courses in agro-economic              No. of Courses/     -                     5/149
planning (Agronomists arnd field              No. of Trainees
technicians involved in land
redistribution)
-2-month courses in photo interpretation              r                                   2/51
and mapping
-3-month courses in land redistibution/                            -                      6/159
settlement (Agronomists, field technicians,
and farmer leaders)
-15-day courses for instructors in land                            -                      4/75
restructuring
-1-month courses in monitoring of                                  -                      2/62
aerophotogrammetric services
-1.5-month courses in preparing settlement                         -                      4/74
projects
-Various seninars and recycElng courses                            -                     32/545
Total                                            '                                   55/1115
1/ Construction and rehabilitation works suspended since 1989 because of lack of resources.
2/ As of September 30, 1991.
3/ From June 1987 to August 1991.



- 33 -
Table 8: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
ARTICLE/                                 COVENANT                STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
SECTION
Loan Agreement tas amended on 03/25/86, 05/15/87. 03/01/88 and 12/11/90)
ARIL ES
3.01 (a)            The Borrower declares its commitment to the  Although agreements were reached in March
objectives of the Project as set forth in    1987 on project objectives, the Government's
Schedule 2-.. and shall: (1) cause INCRA,    commitment to the project has been ambivalent
SUDENE and the Northeast States to perform   (extinction of INCRA in October, 1987, then of
with the provision of the Project Agreement;  MIRAD in January 1989, and late reinstatement
(ii) take all action necessary to enoble INCRA,    of INCRA in June 1989).
SUDENE and the Northeast States to performn
such obiigation; and (iii) not take any action
which would prevent such performance.
3.01 (c)            The Borrower shall: (i) take all action ... so as to    Chronic counterpart funding shortages and late
ensure that INCRA and the Northeast States   releases have hindered project implementation
shall have funds required for carrying out their    and pre pted suspension of Bank
respective parts of the Project available to them  disbursements under this Loan from July 5 to
in a timely basis.                           September 27, 1991.
_ARTICLE lV
4.02 (a)            The Borrower shall take all action necessary to  As of 02/28/92, only 26% of the adjusted
acquire land in a timely manner to enable each  appraisal targets for land regularization and
northeast state to meet the land regularizadon  32% for land redistribution have been reached.
00,                  tand redistribution targets set forth in Schedule  Meeting the revised targets proposed in the
5 to this agreement.                         August 1990 Action Plan would have increased
these percentages to 51% and 63 %,
respectively.
4.02 (b)            The Borrower shall, not later than August 31,  Complied with (Central Bank Resolution No.
1987, apply l-nding policies for the provision  1329 of 06/03/87 complemented by Decree
of agricultural credit to farmers which are  Laws No. 2363 of 10/21/87 and No. 2375 of
granted usufruct rights in accordance with the  11/25/87).
provisions of Decree Law 271.
4.03                The B3orrower shall take aU reasonable action  Considerable delays in: (i) signing (October
necessar to enable the timely procurement of  1990) the first ICB ;ontracts (No. 01/87) for
the goods and services required for purposes of    acrophotogrammetric works; and (ii) initiating
the Project.                                 (September 1990) and completing (October
1991) the LCB process for the acquisition of 12
sen of locally manufactured data processing
equipment.



- 34 -
Project Aereement (as amended on 03/25/86. 05/15/87. 03/01/88 and 12/11/90).
2.01 (a)             INCRA declares its commitment to the           Although agreements were reached in March
objectives of the Project as set forth in      1987 on project objectives, the Government's
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement .... and shall    commitment to the project has been ambivalent
carry out the Project with due diligence and  -(extinction of INCRA in October, 1987, then of
efficiency.                                   MIRAD in January 1989, and late reinstatement
of INCRA in June 1989).
2.01 (b)             For purposes of ensuring the assistance of the  Amended Subsidiary Project Agreements were
Northeast States and SUDENE in carrying out   signed in November 1987 and updated every
the Project, INCRA shall: (i) not later than  year henceforth.
06/15/87, amend the subsidiary Project
Agreements....
2.01 (d)             INCRA shaU ensure that the planning,           Complied with.
supervision and monitoring and evaluation
procedures are fuUy consistent with those
established for the NRDP.
2.02 (a) and         INCRA shaU (a) take aU action to ensure that   Not complied with. The price charged to
(b)                  beneficiaries of the land redistribution activities    beneficiaries of the land redistribution activities
included under the Project be charged a price  reflected only a smaU part of the fuU value of
that reflects the fuU value of the land; (b) make    the land.
available to beneficiaries terms of payment for
land.
2.03 (a)             INCRA shaU furnish to the Bank, not later than    Complied with only in October 1991.
09/15/87, a proposal on the technical and     Technical specifications for the data processing
institutional issues related to the establishment  equipment were approved by the Bank in early
of the data banks, including the specifications  1989, but the procurement process was initiated
of the equipment, and not later than 12/31/87,  after considerable delays in Scptember 1990
to complete the proposal referred to          and finaUy completed in October 1991.
2.04                 INCRA shall: (a) carry out aU studies included  The Bank approved terms of reference for some
in Part e in accordance with terms of reference    of the studies but they were not carried out.
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) employ the
consultant required; and (c) promptly upon the
completion of the respective studies, furnish to
the Bank, the conclusions and recommendations
cf such studies.
3.01 (b)             INCRA shall: (i) maintain at aU times a project    Partially complied with. The project
unit within its Presidency; and (ii take aU   coordinating unit has suffered from three major
actions necessary to ensure that such project  institutional changes and five reorganizations.
unit shall have the full assistance and
cooperation of the other departmnents and
directorates.



- 35 -
4.02 (a) and         INCRA shall (a) cause the project accounts for  Because of institutional changes and protracted
(b)                  each fiscal year audited by independent auditors    delays in the release of counterpart funds to
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) furnish to the  contract independent auditors, audits were
Bank not later than six months after the end of  generally late (combined Audit Report for fiscal
each fiscal year: (i) certified copies of the  years 1988 and 1989 received on 09/20190 and
project accounts for such year as so audited;  audits of fiscal year 1990 accounts not yet
and (ii) the report of such audit by said      undertaken.)
auditors.



_ 36 -
Table 9: BANK STAFF INPUTS
Loan/Credit
Project ID     Nutber    Project Name          Stages                           Staff Weeks
6BRAPA133   L25930
NE LAND TENURE IMPRO  Preappralsal                            65.0
AppraIsal                              61.9
NegotIatIon                            16.6
Supervision                           194.5
Others                                 24.1
Total for Project Id 6BRAPA133                                                        362.0
Grand Total For All the Project Ids                                                  362.0
m Excludes tIme spent by Young ProfessIonaIs



- 37 -
Table 10: BANKCMSSIONS
Perfomrance Ruing Sau
Mo/Yr.          Persons        Field          Specilization            G       DO   M      F    P
~mahr h.ADDnl*
Identfication                              06/83              4             14          ae,b/
Preparation 1                              09/83              2             16           *I,cl
n                                   11/83             3             24            a/,cl,b
m                                  04/84              5             80            a/,c/,fI,h/
Appraisl                                   061I4              3             45           a,Ie/,/h
Post-Appraisal                             11/84              3             45           A/,c/,b
Sugervision lyne/State)
F (BSB)                                    12/85              1              10          g/                        2       2     1    2
P (AL, CE, MA, PE, PB, AL)                 03/86              1              10          a
P (AL, BA, MG, PB, BSB)                    7-8/86             1              IS          d
F (BSB)                                    9-10/S6            2             32           gl/ 4                     4       4     3     4
P (CE.PI,SE,PR)                            1-2/87             1             22           c/
F (Was)                                    02/87              5              -           a/,b/,d/,f,i/             4       3     2     4
U                                          04/87              -             -            -                         4      2    2      4
P (BSB.BA)                                 05/87              1              7           cl
P (BSB)                                    05/87              1              2           a/
P (BA, PE)                                 6-7/87             2             20           cl,rl
F (BsB, PI)                                07/87              2             26           bl,c/                     3       3    2      3
P (MG, RGN)                                0S/87              1              13          c/
P (BSB)                                    10/87              2              6           c/,dl
P (PE)                                     10/87              1              2            c
F (8S8, MA)                                10-11/87           2              14          b/,c/                     3      3      2     2
P (CE, BA)                                 11/87              3              26          e/,e/,e
P (AL)                                     12/87              2              1S           c/,a/
F (BSB. PE,PI)                             03/S8              2             30           b/,cl                     2       3    2      2
P (BSB)                                    03/88              1              7            d/
P (RGN)                                    03/88              1              4            c/
P (SE)                                     4-5/88             1              12           c/
P (PI)                                     7-4/88             1              6            c/
P (BSB)                                    01/89              1              2            cl
P(CE, AL)                                  1-2/89             1              8            cl
P (BA, MA, P4                              4-5/S9             1              24           el
U                                          09/89              -              -                                     3       3     3     3    3
F (BSB)                                    11/89              2              16           blc/                    .3       2     3    2    2
P (CE, MA, PB, P4                          03/90              1              20           c/
P (AL)                                     05/90              1              7            el
U                                          06190              -              -                                     3       4     4    3    4
F (BSB)                                    11190              2              6            b/,c/                    3       2     3    2    2
P (BSB)                                    02/91              1              3            e
C  (BSB                                     Il/SI             2              5            b/,el
TOTAL                                                        597
Supervision: P - Patial; F - Full; C - Completion; U - Update of Form 590
States:
AL - Alasoas; BA - Bahia; CE - C"na; MA - Mamrnho; MG - MiDma Germ!; PBS  Psiba; PE -Pernambuco; PI  Pisui; RN - Rio Orande do
None; SE - Sergipe; BSB - BrasiliN TCRAYM    D bcadquasn
ecaization:
a/Economlsc b/Agdculturis; e/and Speci liht; d/Raources Planner, c/Financial Analyxt;  siusaionsl Expen; g/Eavikonmeo Specialist; b/Management
Specilst; ILeal Advisr
Performance Ratng Status;
I - problem-fie; 2 - modertc prblem; 3 - major problem;
4 a mjor problem  not being adequately addreued.
OveU State
- DevelopnatObjective.
, MnagamPcformsne
* Availability of Funds
- Ptocum         Prorm



INSTITUTIONAL/ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGES DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Nature and Calendar of Changes Occurred
INCRA's President                       MIRAD#s General Secretary
No. of Months                                No. of Months   No. of changes
Month/Year    Executing Agency                Name                  in Function              Name                 in Function          (cum.)
04/85       INCRA/DI               Jose Gomes da Silva                6                                                               1
10/85       INCRA/DI               Nelson de F. Ribeiro               7                                                               -
05/86       INCRA/DP               Pedro do Carmo Dantas              1                                                               2
(Decr. No. 92627)
06/86                              Guitherme Frederico M.             I
Muller
07/86                              Ruben ltgenfritz da                12
Silva
05/87       INCRA                                                                                                                     3
(Decr. No. 94331)
06/87                              Jose Eduardo Viera                 3
Raduan
10/87      Extinction of INCRA                 --
(Decr. No. 2363/87)                                                                                                       4
MIRAD/SG
(Decr. No. 95074)
09/88       MIRAD/SG                           --                                Delite Guerra de Macedo           6
Mario Ramos Vilela                3
01/89       Extinction of MIRAD
(Med. Prov. No. 29)
HINAGRI
06/89       Reinstatement of                   --
INCRA
(Decr. No. 97886)
HINAGRI
07/89       INCRA                  Mario Luiz Pegoraro                10
05/90       INCRA                   Jose Reynaldo da C.S.A.           10                                                              5
Vieira da Silva                                                                                   6
03/91       INCRA                   Joao Mendonca A Filho             10                                                              7



PROJFCT COSlS (BREAKDOWN PER STATE)
Exp ditum (in USS mnitio rnad % of A.F) nd Physical Targets Adcieved (in% of A.E) per tan No.
STATE/INSITIUTION           (1) Aora  hotogrmmatry/        (2) Lad TtnuRc    (3) Caast and     (4) Suott for                (5) Institutioa Sle -ing                    Total
Idcatfnto_          Titig      jLand Restructuing                                                        (2) to (5)
Aerial          photoVgrSmet&ic                                                            Buildiagp        Zquipm        Staff Tr. OA: TA
Pn,ot phy       Savice 
Total   %AE    Totbl      %AE    TOWl       %AE    Total    %AB    Total    %AE    Toal    SAE    Totrl    %Ae    Total    %AE    Total    %Ae
AIAGOAS             -Cost .41    29.3    .76       6.1       3.65    61.5    .39       24.5    .35      28.7      0       0        .43      23.2   .37       112.1   5.19    45.7
-Achievnt           78                22                31                3                10                0                _                 -               _
RABA                -Cod  2.47   132.9    6.96    47.2      t.12     59.0      1.40    53.4    .93      13.5      0       0        .82      19.6   .5S       55.3    HA.dS   42.3
-Ad6kymait          91                39                26                3                24                0                -                -
CEARA               -coot 1.19   113.6    3.3S    40.2       1.97    16.2    .02       1.3     .38      35.1      .07     10.4   .41       20.8   .23        S2.3    3.53    1.9
-Achlewmct          96                41                13                1                22                _
MARANHAO            -Cot  I.SS   ISS4.     4.91    62.3     2.49     53.3    .21       24.7    4.41    216.2    .07       9.5    .23       7.8      .05      6.S     7.46    62.1
-A&Leva_ent         122               59                49               23                62
MINAS GERAIS       -Cost 1.05   161.2    4.47  U4.2         2.50     73.3    .32       43.2    .79      43.9      0       0        .35     40.2   .05        54.4    4.01    0.00
.Achkvum=*          134               87                24                0                25                0
PARAIA             -Cmd  .42    103.8    2.22    71.3       4.02     76.1    .59       34.5    .39      41.2     .45      73.7   .08        5.6    .45      2i4.5   6.43     0.00
;Adveu              U4                61                59                53               II                100
PERNAMBUCO          -Coae  1.01   91.9     5.39    65.6    4.03      34.9    .77       23.8    .63      31.8      0       0        .04     1.4    .43        65.2    S.90    28.8
-AdaievW            96                78                26               2                 23                0
PIA                -Cost 1.92   127.4    7.94      64.4      1.38    12.3    .08       S.0     .83      23.4     .33      69.1    .31      11.4   .52        36.7    4.00    16.9
-A _deleminm        106               67               I1                 0                37                100
R1OGRANDEN.    -Cost .45    130.0    2.07          73.3     1.73     41.3    .17       42.5    .56      31.1     .36      33.7   .35       33.3   .13        81.2    3.30    41.3
-Achiuvemt          122               84                37               40                23                100
SERGIPE             -Cost .23    23.1      .63     10.0    2.22      61.5    .44       55.7    .34      32.4      0       0        .39     27.5    .09       33.3    3.43    46.7
.A _cyinaud         S4                23                35                121              24                0
TNCRAJMIRD (HQ  _-Cost -                                                                                          -       --       .07     -        5.36     -       5.43    -
-Achievemen_t. 
TOTAL               -Cost 10.70  94.7      38.70   48.4     32.61    41.2     4.39    31.3      10.61   47.2      1.33    22.5    3.43     16.3    8.27      179.80  60.68   41.1
-Achivcc            100               55                26                12               32                50               -.               -.
aJ Breakdown per itate calculated from dbe overll avere cosb of US$19.1 per 100 ha for serial photography nd edtimated US$126.3 for photograiummetc service. (LCB and ICB conrat).



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
COMPARATIVE PERFORMANCE IN LAND EXPROPRIATION OF THE PROJECT
AND OF THE NATIONAL LAND REFORM PROGRAM (PNRA)
IN THE NORTHEAST (AS OF 09/30/91)
PNRA                     PROJECT
STATES              Area Expropriated  Area Expropriated a/       Z of
(ha.)                (ha.)             PNRA
ALAGOAS                      3,310                 3,310           100
BAHIA                      392,057              266,831             68
CEARA                      156,705               151,874            97
MARANHAO                   639,430              530,567             83
MINAS GERAIS               184,993                72,400            39
PARAIBA                      7,698                 4,452            58
PERNAMBUCO                  13,063                 9,846            75
PIAUI                       14,549                14,549           100
RIO G. DO NORTE             49,664                44,612            90
SERGIPE                     17,337                11,328            65
TOTAL                    1,478.806             1,109.769            75
a/Includes:
-areas acquired by INCRA prior to March 1985 (52,695 ha.);
-area expropriated up to the recognition of INCRA ownership (emissao da
posse);
-areas expropriated (presidential decree signed) but still under process; and
-areas acquired through private deal.



BRAZILt                                    5    '-
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM                             ) 
'/                    ~~~~~~~NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE                  N_H
g&                         ~~~~~~~~~~IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                   IBRAZI L    RcNORN
PARA           b         I'9YEARLY PHOTOGRAMMiETRIC OPERATIONS                                           -                        ,
M^r >>9 > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~South   America
| 'tQ ~~~ \ < A NORTE~
f ;~~~~~~~~~~~~6 0f-wUA
oPpelww~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,<)    .' ' " ~~~~"     "                             ''    z;%                   tO
:     l_cSbF-e<hd   
9     f-                               5  W    i                                                                PRNAVBCO~v tM
Y  {   i  i   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 59                      \          <       ALAGOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PSSO
\-tr Xo'"e  g ( D . ,.,  . : .0 0 ' -
5.r-  1w,;. m;' ERIAUE
PERNSAMBUCO r
G  O  l  A  S 9  Sf  RW SSN o 2o Maps to t e produced~1,
>                    Oa                        \                         ~-- -----project
.D td . .w0$^1 > t (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
De r.    S   OF ars Cbros                     5                          _  _  Sto~~~~~~~~~~~~~Piete boundarye
f~~~~r,, ~~~.. . .                                                                                Ye r   0     
, <s.,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ya I . 
,,, j                                        . EsptRlr~~~~~~~~~~~~co"  C0-            Year 2         0IE
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ya 3./ SAT 
o3~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mp F-due under 6                                                 ;
|____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ohrpoet



BRAZIL                            S'-   
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM                   J'
R                  ~~~~~NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE               
ff                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                    B RA Z I L'
PA RA                                  YEARLY LAND ADJUDICATION OPERATIONS            .
(/  :)/*'                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~South CAmerica
j   ' |' +)  5 9   +!    </                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Or  g   IL   X/   3Vn19eo  0lt /_   ,\   Ys   eCPt9                             (/
>S Xd-,,,:oW;_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i}  X            aoolw^O                       0  oT                    0               C 
y                                  t'$v               ?      t5.-r    <r IPAAB>'ffpA53
\>   osO,.O,    P | A 2 i          SFt  8<s   t/ t 71+b;MdsrFECIFE b~~~~~~J. co_
(   >   <,       /  W  *    t t -- e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
x ~' J  c nu  /       IARWF'               O                  
f .-   \  r- - J   O  X    b.Sd  -         w         3  SERGIPE~~~~~~~~~~~~
J ~~~~" 'V'X    t,.:
HtAgA'gf;  AlOMB.                                      B
J~~~~o  o                    v<     
GC)liC   (>  sa.a5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   X              OvO~~~~~~          Project Boundary
\               obrumado                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Year I
A,,    X   > <            OVter:doConqslstltwOoOllb!us    ~~~~~~~Year 2
S    ,^         o'                    \~~~~~ other projects
nF. D .n'0o+>  4dM                                                                         Nuclei Centers
j IPRASS %/   ,?                           >                      13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ State Capitals
*   s c.,,.      ~~~~~Rivers
*s uS b_ nt~ye X <           OMonles Cbros             r I                            State Boundasries  
R g MINAS GERAIS x oAILD+o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundo.s 
>         0      100    ~~~~~~~~200    300 KILOMETERS
ws   w   S                                0 ~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~ESPIRITO  '0  100  200 MILES
SANTO                                   3



