DocNument of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4104-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK OF RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 31, 1985
ITh document as a restritce dLsiutrdm and may be used by recipients only in the perfomnue of
tbe}r 1fgel dlle. as ontst ay not _nimmise be dissed without Werld Bank mbhrkboioL



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1   =    Cr$ 2,562 (Oct. 31, 1984)
Cr$1   =    US$0.00039 (Oct. 31, 1984)
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
DI        Diretoria de Integracao com Estados e Territorios (INCRA)
(Directorate of Integration with States and Territories of INCRA)
INCRA     Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
MIRAD     Ministerio da Reforma e Desenvolvimento Agrario
(Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Development)
OET       Organo Estadual de Terras
(State Land Institute)
PAPP      Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor
(Support Program for Small Rural Producers of the Northeast
Rural Development Program)
PDSFN     Projeto de Desenvolvimento do Sistema Fundiario Nacional
(National Land Administration Development Program)
SFN       Sistema Fundiario Nacional
(National Land System)
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejamento
(Planning Secretariat of the Office of the President of the
Republic)
SUDENE    Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                      =   January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program           April 1 to March 31
Project                                   =   April 1 to March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower       Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount     :  US$100.0 million equivalent.
Terms          Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would aim to extend the benefits of
secure landownership to up to 700,000 small farmers in
Brazil's Northeast region, many of whom would also benefit
from complementary development activities under the
Bank-supported Northeast Rural Development Program, and to
improve the Governmentis ability to formulate land policies
and administer land resources. The project would achieve
the first objective by: (a) identifying and delimiting all
private and public properties within an area of some 31
million ha of rural land in the Northeast region over a
period of about three and a half years; (b) regularizing the
tenure of all rightful occupants; (c) selecting, planning
the use of and initially administering lands to be acquired
bv the Government for redistribution to some 130,000
presently landless farmers or farmers whose excessively
small properties need to be reallocated; and, (d) confirming
the titles of all legitimate landowners and providing titles
to beneficiaries of land regularization, reallocation or
redistribution operations. This is expected to remove a
major obstacle to the access to official credit for at least
200,000 small farmers, increase production and employment on
up to 1 million ha of presently under-utilized or idle lands
and help resolve latent and open land conflicts. The second
objective would be achieved by: (a) establishing cadastral
data banks in each of the nine Northeast states and the
State of Minas Gerais for the legal, fiscal and economic
administration of private and public lands; (b) strengthen-
ing land institutions in staff and equipment; and, (c)
carrying out various legal, institutional and socioeconomic
studies.
Risks      :   The proposed project would strengthen the Government's
capacity to implement the agrarian reforms aimed at by
Brazilian legislation. As such, it would have political
This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the perormanc of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authoriation.



- ii -
implications at various levels of Brazilian society.
At the federal and state administration level, the project
enjoys overall political support. At the level of small
farmers, there is a small risk of adverse political
reactions if their expectations were not met. The project
could suffer from delays in institutional development, legal
obstructions from unsatisfied claimants to landownership or
a lower-than-expected efficiency of staff or equipment.
Therefore, the project puts heavy emphasis on technical
assistance, staff training and studies of possible
legislative and administrative improvements. The timely
implementation of aerial photography, on which subsequent
project activities depend, could be affected by unfavorable
weather conditions. However, beyond the first, tightly
scheduled year, aerial photography operations have been
planned so as to make photographic outputs available up to
one year in advance of subsequent project activities. The
immediate, self-contained objectives of the project justify
the proposed investment. Fuller benefits would be derived,
however, through the implementation of complementary
development activities such as those envisaged under the
Northeast Rural Development Program.



- iii -
Estimated                                                  US$ Million
Costs     :                                         Local   Foreign   Total
Aerial Photogrammetry
Aerial photography                  2.5    7.6        10.1
Ground control and mapping         23.5   43.8        67.3
Land Tenure Identification           50.4    8.9        59.3
Cadastre Implementation & Titling    9.3    3.1         12.4
Support for Land Restructuring       15.5    3.8        19.3
Institutional Strengthening
Buildings                           3.4    1.4         4.8
Data processing equipment           2.4    3.3         5.7
Other equipment and furniture       6.4    5.2        11.6
Staff training and tech. assist.   3.1    1.1          4.2
Project Administration                8.7      -         8.7
Studies                               1.3      .1        1.4
Total Baseline Costs                126.5   78.3       204.8
Physical contingencies             15.2    9.4        24.6
Price contingencies                13.0    8.1        21.1
Total Project Cost                  154.7   95.8       250.51/
Financing                                                 US$ Million
Plan      :                                         Local   Foreign   Total
Federal Government2/                119.6   20.9       140.5
State Governments                    10.0      -        10.0
IBRD                                 25.1   74.9       100.0
154.7   95.8      250.5
Estimated Disbursements:                        US$ Million
Bank FY                         86       87       88       89
Annual                         33.0     35.0    28.0       4.0
Cumulative                     33.0     68.0    96.0    100.0
Rate of Return:             n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 5360-BR of May 31, 1985
1/  Including about US$7.5 million of taxes.
2/ Including an expected loan from the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) to finance foreign exchange costs and part of local costs.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$100.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$100.0
million to help finance a National Land Administration Program: Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        An economic report entitled  Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum- (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 when President Joao
Figueiredo completed his six-year term in office. Its main economic
priorities have included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of
manufactured exports and reduced dependence on imported oil, and at the
same time an improvement in the situation and prospects of the most
economically disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the
Northeast. The prime political concern had been the return to a fully
democratic system of government. Much of the Government's attention, since
1980, had to be diverted from longer-term political and economic change
because of the stabilization problems confronting Brazil. In spite of the
economic recession and consequent social pressures, however, substantial
progress has been made towards the structural changes needed for Brazil's
next stage of development.
1/ Parts I and II of this report are similar to the corresponding sections
of the President's Reports on the CHESF/FURNAS Power Transmission and
Southeast Power Distribution Projects (Nos. P-4073-BR and P-4074-BR,
respectively) both dated May 15, 1985.



-2-
4.        The presidential elections held in January 1985 resulted in the
election of Tancredo Neves, whose subsequent inability to take office on
schedule presented a crisis for the new Government. Dr. Neves died on
April 21 and Vice-President Jose Sarney became President in his stead, with
the task of pursuing the objectives stated by Dr. Nleves and eliciting broad
popular support. The new Government has indicated that its primary
economic goal will be to restore the country's economic growth in order to
expand employment opportunities, improve the remuneration of the labor
force, and bring about a more equitable distribution of income. It is
recognized that for this growth to be solidly based, it is necessary to
control inflation, put the finances of the public sector on a sound
footing, and overcome constraints on growth imposed by the balance of
payments.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
iiberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7Z, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billion. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates
increased, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4
billion, or 5.0% of GDP. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline in GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems among some major trading partners, and regional events leading to
the debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified
adjustment program. In February 1983 the IMF pledged financial assistance
of the order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and through the
Extended Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loans due in 1983, and other measures of
financial support, which were later extended into 1984.



- 3 -
7.        The primary objective of the program was the reduction of the
current account deficit and external borrowing requirements. The cruzeiro
was devalued by 30X in February 1983 and subsequently adjusted in line with
domestic inflation, import restrictions were increased, and tight fiscal
and monetary restraints were imposed. Imports fell by 21Z in 1983, and
exports increased by 8.5% in spite of adverse trading circumstances,
resulting in a trade surplus of US$6.5 billion and a reduction in the
current account deficit from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about
5X of GDP) to US$6.2 billion. In 1984, these trends continued, with the
complete elimination of the current account deficit in the balance of
payments. Accordingly, in a period of two years Brazil achieved an
external adjustment equivalent to over 5% of GDP. At the same time, the
major source of internal disequilibrium, the public sector deficit, was
also brought under better control. Central Bank figures show that the
consolidated operational public sector deficit was reduced from 6.6% of GDP
in 1982 to 2.5% in 1983; a small surplus was planned for 1984 but recent
information indicates that a significant deficit remains. Steps were taken
to eliminate product and interest rate subsidies, adjust relative prices
for fuel and other products, reduce public expenditures and increase
revenues. Thus, although inflation has remained high, substantial progress
was made towards establishing a new basis for growth. In particular,
strong export expansion during 1984 resulted in earnings in excess of US$27
billion and a trade surplus amounting to over US$13 billion.
8.        The short-run cost of these adijustments has nevertheless been
high. Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages
in the supply of tradable goods, increases in administered prices, very
high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. GDP fell by
3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the industrial
and commercial sectors. On that basis, per capita GDP declined by over 12%
during 1981-83. For that period industrial employment fell by over 20%,
with the largest reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the
main industrial centers.
9.       Sparked by the export resurgenee, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5%, or over 2% per capita. The increase in manufacturing
exports has led an incipient industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remains
relatively small. Overall expansion is still inhibited by depressed
domestic market conditions, however, which can be expected to continue
until there is some relaxation ifn the present austere demand managemert
policies. In particular, recovery is not likely to become generalized
until real interest rates fall from their present levels of 30-40%.
Economic Outlook
10.      The short-term economic outlook for Brazil appears somewhat more
encouraging than that of a year ago, although the Government faces a
difficult initial period of political adjustment to the loss of President
Tancredo Neves. The balance-of-payments situation is much stronger, and
some signs of recovery from the domestic recession are apparent. In



- 4 -
addition, the international economic situation appears more encouraging,
with at least a temporary easing of interest rates and oil prices.2/
11.       The immediate prospects for the balance of payments appear
encouraging, following the trade surplus of over US$13 billion obtained in
1984. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much
of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US
dollars, total exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the
comparable increase for industrial exports was 37%. Reflecting the
favorable trade performance, Brazil's international reserve position also
improved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7 billion.
Exports in the first quarter of 1985 were 12% lower than in the same period
of 1984. Reasons for this poorer export performance appear to include
slower growth in the United States, some appreciation of the cruzeiro
against currencies other than the US dollar, the phasing out of a fiscal
subsidy for manufactured exports, the removal of credit incentives for
exports, a severe shortage of export credit, and the imposition of tighter
import restrictions in several partner countries. Nevertheless, the
Government is aware of the problem and is taking remedial measures in those
areas in which it can act. These measures include the earmarking of some
credit resources for export production and a modification in the exchange
rate rules, which, should the monthly inflation rates continue to fall (as
in April), will result in an effective depreciation of the currency.
Similarly, the recent decline of the value of the US dollar vis-a-vis
European currencies should also strengthen Brazilian international
competitiveness. Accordingly, the overall export outlook remains, on the
whole, positive.
12.       Inflation remains a critical issue, but reducing it under the
current system of indexation and in the context of very resilient
inflationary expectations is proving to be exceedingly difficult.
Indexation, while making it difficult to reduce inflation, does of course
mitigate some of the adverse economic and -social effects commonly
associated with inflation. A major challenge for the new Government will
be to restore confidence and, in doiag so, dampen inflationary
expectations. To accomplish this, a comprehensive and consistent
medium-term strategy and a clearly stated and credible economic program
will be essential.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, assuming the continuation of the recovery now becoming
evident. This recovery depends, however, both upon the economic policies
2/ Over three quarters of Brazil's external debt carries variable interest
rates, or is short-term, so that a change of 1% in average interest
rates means a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about US$750 million.
Similarly, a dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices has
an impact of up to US$300 million on the trade balance.



-5-
pursued by the Government and a number of external economic factors outside
the control of Brazilian policy-makers. The levels of international
interest rates and of oil prices, continued recovery in the OECD, the
avoidance of additional trade barriers for Brazil's exports, and the
availability of modest net amounts of external financing, are all critical
for Brazil. At the same time, much will depend upon the conduct of
national economic policies by the incoming Government. The present
situation requires a comprehensive and integrated, .iedium-term, strategy
for structural adjustment and economic recovery. This strategy should
focus on further export promotion, greater productive efficiency, an
improved allocation of economic resources, reduced inflation, increased
investment and savings, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
14.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economic recovery,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance has turned positive with the large trade surpluses of 1983
and 1984. The current account deficit, which amounted to US$6.2 billion in
1983 (equal to about 3% of GDP), turned into a small surplus in 1984.
Total medium- and long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at
an annual rate of 4.3Z from 1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation. The projections assume that gross disbursements,
including amounts to be rescheduled, would rise from US$14.8 billion in
1985 to about US$20 billion in 1990, in current prices, and amortization
from US$11 billion to about US$15 billion in the same period, with net
disbursements averaging approximately US$4.5 billion annually. For private
M&LT debt, the projections are consistent with reductions of total real
commercial bank exposure in Brazil and a reduced share of Brazilian loans
in total commercial bank lending portfolios. Nevertheless, continued new
lending will be required for the foreseeable future.
15.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would improve
substantially over the projection period. The total debt service ratio is
projected to fall from 72% in 1982 to about 46Z in 1990. In the short run,
debt service payments would reach levels threatening the present recovery,
without the debt rescheduling for w-.hich negotiations, initiated by the
previous Government, have still to be completed. The projections thus
assume rescheduling agreements which will minimize repayments of existin_
principal at least in the earlier years. The total external debt as a
multiple of total goods and non-factor service exports is projected to
decline continually, after having reached a high of 3.4 in 1982. By 1990
the ratio is projected to have fallen to close to 2.0.
16.       One striking feature of the balance-of-payments projectiors is
the magnitude of the projected net financial medium- and long-term resource
transfers (excess of interest over net new borrowing) from Brazil to its
creditors. This transfer would amount to over US$7 billion in 1985. The
net resource transfer over the entire projection period would average 2% of
GDP annually, although declining. Even with these transfers, however,
economic growth of a reasonable magnitude could occur.



-6-
17.       Base case projections, with the component sectors of GDP
projected on the basis of assumed economic policies and individual sectoral
prospects, show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, with GDP growth increasing
from a projected 4% in 1985 to over 7% in 1990. Throughout the 1984-90
period an average increase in real per capita consumption of near 3.5%
annually is p.ojected.  Even so, it would not be until 1988 that the 1980
level of per capita income would be restored.
18.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
uncertainties regarding future international market conditions.
Nevertheless, some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of
Brazilian development strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon
the country's success in expanding exports. Second, given the seriousness
of the external constraints, Brazil's economic growth over the period
1984-90 will be more modest than during the 1970s. Third, to sustain that
more modest rate of growth will require both a continued net inflow of
external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly improved
savings effort from the domestic economy. Finally, despite the clear
difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has the
economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work its way out of
the present liquidity situation and resume a satisfactory rate of growth
while continuing to meet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil
should remain creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
magnitudes indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
19.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government over the past decade has made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced
illiteracy. Social security programs have been strengthened and extended
to rural areas, and upgrading and expanding health services for the poor
have received much government attention. Increased government efforts have
also been directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the
improved provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection
of ihese and other programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary
estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard
and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real
income gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains,
as reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.
20.       Given the impact of present economic difficulties on output and
employment, however, some of these gains may have been seriously eroded in
the present crisis. Slow growth in employment opportunities, at the rates
of GDP growth currently postulated for the 1980s, emerges as .a potentially
serious problem. Large unemployment and underemployment would persist well
after the recession, unless growth can be accelerated and/or strategies
favoring more labor-intensive activities or technologies pursued.



-7-
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1985 the Bank had made 136 l,ans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,866.7 million (net of cancellations), of which 64 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, and US$1,405.0 million in FY84. The undisbursed
amount as of March 31, 1985 was US$3,560.3 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans.
22.       Over the FY77-83 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$1,457 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. They were US$52.7 million for
a market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million
for an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural
credit and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase
of the Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a rural
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$20.0 million for a technician training project, US$40.0 million for an
urban basic education project in the North-Centerwest regions, US$210
million for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the federal highway
network, US$55.5 million for basic health care in the State of Sao Paulo
and US$2.0 million for national health studies. In addition, a total of
US$30.5 million of supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects was approved in FY84. Eight loans totalling
US$1423.0 million have been approved so far for Brazil in FY85 for the
following: third development banking project, US$300.0 million; science
and technology project, US$72.0 million; two rural development projects in
the Northeast of Brazil, US$122.7 million; technical assistance and pilot
water supply and sanitation project, US$16.3 million; railway project,
US$200.0 million; power transmission project, US$400.0 million; and, power
distribution project, US$312.0 million.
23.       Brazil's external mediumr- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been about US$80 billion at
the end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.6% while
its share in total debt service is estimated at 4.2%.
24.       As of March 31, 1985, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,030.41 million, of which US$676.92 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$353.49 million, US$270.18 million
represent loans and US$83.31 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1985 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is nuz undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average



- 8 -
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accels rated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983, are
being reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing
under the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of
project costs of recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental
financing amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and
rural development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of Project
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to
reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share of project
costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES aimed at
strengthening industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
support the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
import substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing Government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary



-9-
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and three loans for urban development in two metropolitan
areas, in medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studi2s
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Several projects for rural and
urban development, for health and for rural water supply and sanitation,
directed to the needs of the lowest income groups in the Northeast are
under preparation. The proposed project seeks to extend the benefits of
secure landownership to up to 700,000 small farmers in the Northeast, many
of whom would also benefit from complementary Bank-supported rural
development projects. Two such rural development projects in the states of
Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte have recently been approved by the
Executive Directors.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have
been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten cofinancing
operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with
private financial institutions. Cofinancing opportunities are rather
limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial
bark financing available to Brazil are determined within the framework of
the debt rescheduling package.  Cofinancing could become more important in
the near future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bark
participation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new cofinancing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.



- 10 -
PART III - SECTORAL CONTEXT
Present Land Situation
31.       Agriculture employs 30% of Brazil's labor force and contributes
38Z to export earnings and 11% to GDP (1982). Past agricultural growth has
been impressive, averaging 4.7% p.a. during 1970-82 or almost twice the
rate of population increase; this is considered well below the country's
potential given its rapidly evolving technology and abundant land
resources. Brazil's ratio of farmland to population is among the highest
in the world although only 43% of its territory (i.e., about 370 million
ha) is classified as land in farms. The remainder is mostly large,
unexploited and often unexplored areas in the Amazon Basin and Center-West.
Furthermore, only 14% of the land in farms is cultivated under perennial or
annual crops.3/
32.       Farmland is currently held under various forms of occupancy,
reflecting the different ways through which it has historically been
acquired by private individuals. Data on the extent of these various forms
of occupancy are not available. However, it is widely accepted that a
large amount of untitled land has been taken over by private individuals,
many of whom have, by virtue of tenure, acquired possessory rights under
existing laws. Much land is also held with insufficient documentary
evidence, with inaccurate definitions of boundaries and without maps.
33.       The extent of landlessness among Brazil's small farmers and (when
they have access to land) the uneconomic size of their farms are of serious
concern. Based on agricultural census data for the country as a whole, in
1980 only 64% of farmers owned any land, while 17% were squatters.  Fars
of under 10 ha (50% of the total) had an average size of 3.5 ha (down from
4.0 ha in 1960), which is hardly enough to sustain a livelihood on most
soils. In the Northeast region, the geographic focus of this project, only
some 30% of farmer families own land. Nearly half of the agricultural
labor force is comprised of temporary workers. The average size of farms
of under 10 ha (68% of the total) has fallen to 2.7 ha, significantly below
the national average.
34.       The already highly skewed distribution of farmland ownership has
worsened over the past two decades. In 1980, 1% of landowners in Brazil
controlled 47% of the land while the lower 50% controlled only 2% of the
land. In the Northeast, the 220 largest farms (each w'ith more than 10,000
ha) control more land in absolute terms than the 1.7 million farms with
less than 10 ha each. Distribution is also considerably skewed in frontier
agricultural areas on the fringes or south of the Amazon region, where the
land tenure situation is fraught with problems arising from multiple
titlings of a same plot, occupation by squatters, fraudulent title sales
3/ For further discussion on the agricultural sector, see A Review of
Agricultural Policies in Brazil, September 11, 1981, Report No.
3305-BR.



- 11 -
and social tensions. Land-related tensions are also widely reported in the
more developed southern states, especially in the State of Sao Paulo.
Everywhere in Brazil, most farmers without land are deprived of access to
agricultural investment credit and receive little help from extension
agents. They are often prohibited from farming the same land more than one
or two years in a row, for fear that this could lead to claims to ownership
of that land. This results in substantial waste of manpower and of
production opportunities.
35.       Apart from the obvious implications for income distribution, the
concentration of landownership has important implications for both output
and employment. Statistical evidence indicates a sharp decline in the
intensity of land and labor use as farm size increases. Land quality has
no effect on this relationship. The explanations which have been advanced
for the low utilization of land in farms include the increased use of land
by large landowners for its non-production benefits (e.g., as an inflation
hedge, speculative asset, or a basis for obtaining subsidized credit) and
the need by small farmers to cultivate most of their land just to obtain
subsistence income.
Legislative Background
36.       Under Brazil's federative system, the Federal Government's area
of direct jurisdiction is limited to a 150-km-wide strip along the land
borders of Brazilian territory, a 100-km-wide strip on each side of the
federal highways built or planned in the Amazon region, federal territories
and areas which have been expropriated for social purposes. The remaining
rural areas are under the direct jurisdiction of the states, which
administer them in accordance with federal as well as their own respective
laws. The Federal Government is responsible for agrarian legislation, as
well as for expropriation in the social interest. State land laws have to
conform with corresponding federal legislation.
37.       Brazilian agrarian law, as written, is complex but is considered
an adequate basis for dealing with current land administration and tenure
issues. Actions taken by the Government to separate untitled land from
private land and other matters pertaining to land adjudication4! are
currently governed by Law No. 4504 of 1964, Law No. 6015 of 1973 and Law
No. 6383 of 1976. The concept of property ownership as having a social
role is embodied in Brazilian legislation, starting with the Federal
Constitution of 1946, which also authorizes expropriation of land in the
social interest. Building on this principle, the -Estatuto de Terra- (Law
No. 4504), which is considered the centerpiece of Brazilian agrarian
legislation, was enacted on November 30, 1964. Its objective is to 1.romote
agriculture and agrarian reform through the elimination of unproductive
large e: ates and uneconomic small farms; however, it has achieved little
after twenty years.
4/ Land adjudication (-discriminacao- in Portuguese) refers to the
separation of public and private lands and detailed review and
verification of the validity of existing claims to land by private
parties.



- 12 -
38.       Application of existing agrarian laws is hampered by a variety of
factors, including the limited number and insufficient training of judges
and state attorneys, the lack of knowledge of small farmers about their
legal rights, and their limited access to legal resources. Based on its
recent titling experience in the Northeast, the National Institute for
Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA) claims that most titles studied
show registration errors which void them of legal value. Measures are
being taken at the federal level to compile and disseminate existing
agrarian legislation. The effective application of existing tenancy laws
would give clear ownership security to the landowners and long-term tenure
security to their tenants, which would be fundamental in achieving higher
agricultural production on suitable soils.
Cadastral and Fiscal Background
39.       The land taxation system in Brazil distinguishes between farms
according to their size and the efficiency of their use. This classifica-
tion was intended to penalize owners holding large tracts of underutilized
land. The resulting complex tax estimates are, however, established
exclusively on the basis of declarations provided by the supposed owners
themselves to INCRA. INCRA rarely uses its right to check such
declarations and is ill-equipped to do so. Data provided by the owners for
tax purposes are stored by INCRA in a central cadastre. They include
transient information, such as areas planted to seasonal crops and yields
obtained, along with more traditional cadastral information, such as the
area and location of the property, without, however, proper geodetic
references or a precise delimitation of boundaries. Value declarations are
based on a compromise between the owner's desire to maximize his
creditworthiness and minimize his taxes. Annual updating of the cadastre
is not compulsory for plots below 500 ha. Recent surveys have demonstrated
that the sum of the areas declared to be privately owned in a given
municipality often exceeds the municipality's total area by as much as
30%. The number of families working on those lands is, conversely, always
substantially underestimated.
40.       Agricultural credit subsidies and a variety of tax incentives
have tended to increase the speculative value of land. While tax
incentives which resulted in extensive forest clearings in the Amazon
region have been considerably reducad, a number of other tax incentives
remain and would require a closer look by Brazilian policymakers. The
gradual elimination of agricultural credit subsidies and the overall
scarcity of credit in the country are expected to encourage many owners to
sell their underutilized land. A dynamic land market would, however,
require the establishment of land purchase credit, through long-term
mortgages, which may prove difficult in the present tight financial
situation.
Land Policies and Programs
41.       The Government is emphasizing the development of the agricultural
sector in view of the latter's important contributions to the country's
economic recovery and to employment. In the past, agricultural growth was
achieved mainly through an expansion of crop production into new areas,



- 1.3 -
supported by a heavily subsidized program of frontier development, and the
expansion of capital-intensive agriculture principally in the more
developed south. However, the Government is now giving more attention to
increasing the utilization and productivity of existing farmland, in part
through improved land titling and administration. Furthermore, most State
Governments in the Northeast now regard some improvement of land tenure
conditions as an important political and economic objective. This is a
marked change from the situation prevailing a few years ago and reflects
the overall trend of the country towards industrialization and political
structures which tend to reduce the influence of large landowners. The
Brazilian Church is also taking an increasingly active role in defense of
small and landless farmers and is calling for substantial improvements in
the land tenure situation.
42.       Government efforts to improve land tenure conditions have
intensified in the last two years or so. On August 16, 1982, tbz
Government instituted a National Land Policy Program to unify the
implementation of all land adjudication and regularization projects,
initiate new projects to meet the Government's targets for land
adjudication and regularization, and ensure the effective application of
the *Estatuto de Terra." Within the framework of the land program, a
National Land Administration Development Program (PDSFN) has been
formulated. The objectives of the PDSFN are to strengthen the federal and
state land institutions; clarify the existing land situation; improve the
understanding of Federal and State Governments about conditions of
ownership and use of land under state jurisdict'on; propose legal and
administrative measures to improve conditions of landownership and use; and
improve access to land for small farmers. The PDSFN has a 15-year planning
horizon, the initial phase of which would be supported by the project.
Geographically, this initial phase will be concentrated on the Northeast
region where it will be complemented by other development activities under
the Northeast Rural Development Program (para. 51).
43.       Improving the overall land tenure conditions in a country as
large as Brazil, where the land tenure situation is particularly complex
and ill-known, will require a long-term, sustained effort. Surveying,
delimiting and titling a substantial portion of the national territory
would, alone, require anywhere between 15 and 20 years within a program
which would have to be national in scope, deal simultaneously with the
various institutions and components of the system and be implemented in
continuous geographical and time slices, which could be grouped into
separate projects.
Prior Bank and IDB Assistance for Land Activities
44.       Until recently, Bank experience in land tenure operations in
Brazil was limited mainly to relatively small land titling and
redistribution components in a few rural development projects, which have
generally been subject to considerable funding, legal and institutional
problems. However, experience in the Piaui Rural Development Project (Loan
No. 2015-BR), which has a major land component, points to a substantial
potential for improvements in the adjudication and redistribution of public
and private lands. Bank experience in Paraguacu, Bahia (Loan No. 1589-BR),



- 14 -
has also shown that the survey and regularization of existing ownership
rights is necessary for land acquisition in certain areas, especially those
with social tension. Recent rural development projects in Maranhao,
Paraiba and Bahia have relatively large land components, which rely on
modern photogrammetric techniques.
45.       Experience in larger-scale land surveying and titling has been
generated by an IDB-financed project which has been operating since 1982 in
five states of the Northeast under INCRA coordination. The project has
helped accelerate considerably land adjudication and titling operations in
the Northeast. Cooperation with landowners in the delimitation of their
properties is said to have been smooth, the main difficulties being usually
with small landowners who no longer reside in the project area. The
project would have thus failed to reach claimants to only 5% of the
surveyed area. The project utilizes aerial photography and cartographic
restitution in Paraiba, Bahia and Pernambuco and traditional topography in
Sergipe and Alagoas. It does not provide for the establishment of data
banks, which would allow the preservation and future updating of cadastral
information. The project provides for the purchase of about 82,000 ha of
land to benefit some 5,000 families. To date, only some 10,000 ha have
been actually acquired.
46.       Overall, past IDB and Bank assistance for land activities has
effectively helped in developing the land policies of the states concerned
and achieving various institutional improvements. Furthermore, the
Bank-financed projects have introduced modern, cost-effective land survey
technologies similar to the ones proposed in this project. In August 1984,
INCRA organized, with Bank and IDB assistance, an International Symposium
on Land Administration to help disseminate among Brazilian land
institutions the modern cadastral techniques to be used in the project.
INCRA has also organized a number of seminars in various Northeast states
for the same purpose.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The project was prepared by INCRA with the assistance of Bank
staff. Project appraisal was initiated in June 1984 and completed in
November 1984. Negotiations took place in Washington in January 1985 with
a Brazilian negotiating team headed by Mr. Paulo Yokota, former President
of INCRA. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled 'National Land Administration
Program: Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project' (No. 5360-BR)
dated May 31, 1985 is being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Supplementary project data are shown in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Strategy
48.       In line with the objectives of the PDSFN [pare  42], the project
seeks to extend the benefits of secure landownership to a larger number of
small farmers in the Northeast region, and to improve the Government's
ability at the federal and state levels to formulate land policies and
administer the country's land resources. The first objective is to be
achieved by: (a) identifying and delimiting, through the process of land



_ 15 _
adjudication, all private and public properties within an area of some 31
million ha of rural land in the Northeast region over a period of chree and
a half years; (b) regularizing the tenure of all occupants who have
acquired possessory rights on public land in adjudicated areas; (c)
selecting, planning the use of and initially administering lands to be
acquired by the Government for redistribution to presently landless farmers
and farmers with excessively small or uneconomic-sized holdings; and, (d)
confirming landownership rights through the ratification of titles of all
legitimate landowners and the issuance of titles to beneficiaries of land
regularization or redistribution operations.
49.       The second objective is to be accomplished through:  (a) the
establishment of state-level cadastral data banks that would be gradually
integrated with INCRA's present fiscal cadastre and also serve as the basis
for the legal and economic administration of land in the ten states covered
by the project; (b) the strengthening of federal and state land
institutions in staff and equipment; and, (c) various institutional, legal
and socioeconomic studies that would provide recommendations for improving
the efficiency of land operations and land tenure conditions.
50.       In contrast to the piecemeal approach which has characterized the
Bank's past assistance for land activities, the project would represent a
more comprehensive effort to assist the Government deal with land
administration and tenure issues. In light of the country's political
trends and the higher priority now attached by the Government to these
issues (paras. 41 and 42), Bank assistance for land activities on a larger
scale than before and in the context of a single project is warranted. A
more global project would have several advantages. First, it would serve
as an umbrella for unifying land policies, legislation, technological
approaches and institutional requirements. This is essential to creating a
strong land administration system at the federal and state levels. Second,
it would serve as a focal point for mobilizing and enhancing support from
different political and social levels, making it easier to deal effectively
with the various funding and other problems which have beset previous
Bank-supported land activities. Third, it would achieve economies of scale
especially in aerial photogrammetry and surveying operations.
51.       Although the project takes a global approach to land issues and
has its own self-contained objectives, it has also been designed to
complement other development activities under the Support Program for Small
Rural Producers (PAPP) of the overall Nortneast Rural Development
Program.5/ The PAPP would be carried out through state-specific projects
that would comprise: (a) water resources development, including
small-scale irrigation schemes, inland fish production and comminity water
supply; (b) agricultural research and extension; (c) agricultural credit;
(d) marketing services; and (e) support to small rural commnities,
5/ Further discussion on the Government development strategy for the
Northeast is provided in the President's Reports for the Northeast
Rural Development Projects I and II (P-3993-BR and P-3994-BR,
respectively, both dated March 15, 1985).



- 16 -
including the financing of some small localized infrastructure
investments. (As noted in para. 29, two of these projects have recently
been approved by the Board). The project would support improvements in
land tenure necessary to enable a greater number of small farmers to
benefit more fully from irrigation, investment credit and other PAPP
activities. In implementing the project, therefore, first priority would
be given to areas to be covered by the PAPP projects.
Project Area
52.       The project will be carried out in the nine states of Alagoas,
Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and
Sergipe in the Northeast of Brazil, plus the northern part of Minas
Gerais. The Northeast region has a total area of about 1.5 million km2
(18% of Brazil's area) and some 35 million inhabitants (about 29% of the
country's population). Its various states differ substantially in size.
The region's climate varies from humid tropical in most of Maranhao to more
than semi-arid in the interior of Bahia, Ceara and Piaui, with different
and usually short periods suitable for aerial photography. Variable
topography, vegetal cover and population densities affect the choice of
land survey techniques and scales. Landownership distribution is
particularly skewed in the Northeast (paras. 33 and 34). More than 5
million migrants have left the Northeast during the last 20 to 25 years.
Project Institutions
53.       The land institutions which would play a role in the
implementation of the project are part of a National Land System (SFN)
under the Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Development (MIRAD). The MIRAD,
formerly the Special Ministry for Land Affairs in the Office of the
President of the Republic, has recently been established as a permanent
ministry. It serves as presidential adviser on land policy matters,
establishes guidelines for the implementation of various land-related
activities, and proposes changes in land legislation. The SFN consists of
INCRA, the lead agency of MIRAD; the state land institutes (OETs); and the
Executive Groups for Lands of the Araguaia - Tocantins (GETAT) and of the
Lower Amazon (GEBAM), both of which operate in areas where land conflicts
are particularly widespread.
54.       INCRA was established in 1970 to implement agrarian reform and
promote settlement projects. It has recently been reorganized. The new
INCRA comprises a Planning and Coordination Secretariat and the
Directorates of Land, Cadastre and Taxation, Colonization, Integration with
States and Territories (DI) and Administration. The Directorate of Land
carries out all land survey and titling operations in areas under federal
(rather than state) jurisdiction, and is responsible for all land
expropriations in the country and for land purchases financed with federal
funds. The Directorate of Cadastre and Taxation is the depository of all
statistical information collected by INCRA and is responsible for the
determination of land taxes. The Directorate of Colonization plans,
implements and assists all federal settlement projects. The DI would be
the principal INCRA directorate responsible for administering the project.
The DI has been restructured to improve its ability to assist the OETs. It
now comprises two departments of policies and programs that would



- 17 -
consolidate, monitor and evaluate the state land administration programs
and related activities implemented by the various INCRA directorates, and
one departatnt that would provide technical and management support to the
OETs. This internal structure would be reviewed after the proposed
institutional study of the OETs has been completed (para. 65). The DI is
transferring cooperativism and rural electrification activities, which
represented a large part of its previous operations, to the Ministry of
Agriculture, along with many of the staff which were employed in those
activities. Most of the remaining staff have worked on the IDB-financed
land project, while a few others have participated in the preparation of
this project.
55.       INCRA is represented at the state level through its regional
directorates, which in the past, have dealt mainly with tax data
collection, cooperative development and settlement and have also assumed
the land administration of some states. Most of the 9,000 employees of
INCRA are located in the regional directorates. The strengthening of the
OETs under the project will require that the functions and staffing of the
regional INCRA offices be reviewed. The possibility of transferring to the
OETs some of the regional staff of INCRA will be considered within the
above-mentioned institutional study of OETs.
56.       OETs have been established in all project states.  However, they
differ considerably in legal status (some are semi-independent with varying
degrees of autonomy, others are sub-divisions of a state secretariat), size
and experience. AU OETs would be developed according to a basic model,
appropriately modified to suit the particular situation prevailing in each
state. This model comprises one central unit which would provide general
coordination, documentation, data processing and planning of land
acquisition and redistribution, and a gradually increasing number of
regional units, which would be responsible for the actual land adjudication
work.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
57.       The project supports the Bank's objectives in Brazil of helping
promote adjustments required for improved agricultural performance and
assisting the country's poverty alleviation efforts (paras. 27 and 29). It
would help establish land tenure conditions that would enable more small
farmers to respond to and benefit from improved producer incentives, access
to credit, and other policy and institutional improvements which other Bank
loans to the agricultural sector are helping to promote. Its geographic
focus on the Northeast region, where it will be complemented by
Bank-assisted rural development projects, would intensify Bank support for
the Government's efforts to increase the productivity and incomes of the
poorest part of Brazil's population. The project would also promote the
development of the country's land institutions, expand the use of modern,
cost-effective surveying techniques, and introduce new land data processing
technologies. Considering the nature of the project, financing from
commercial sources is unlikely to be available. The project is expected to
be co-financed by the IDB.



- 18 -
Detailed Project Features
58.       The project comprises the following distinct but related
components: (a) aerial photogrammetry; (b) land tenure identification; (c)
cadastre implementation and titling; (d) support activities for land
restructuring; (e) institutional strengthening; (f) project administration;
and, (g) institutional, legal and socioeconomic studies. Aerial
photogrammetry operations would support the on-the-ground identification of
ownership (i.e., adjudication) and use of landed properties. Data
generated by these operations would be entered into a cadastral data bank
system, providing the Government with a valuable .and administration tool.
Clear identification of the ownership and use of land is a prerequisite for
effective land redistribution and restructuring. The remaining project
components - institution-building, administration and studies - would
seek to provide the organizational and analytical underpinnings for the
other components.
59.       Aerial photogrammetry operations, consisting of aerial
photography and ground control, aerial triangulation and mapping
activities, would cover some 56 million ha divided into 72 blocks. This
volume of work would cover the project's requirements (including a
substantial reserve because of the configuration of the limits of
municipalities to be surveyed) and prepare the way for uninterrupted land
surveys to be carried out during the initial year of the next phase of the
PDSFN. Some 6.5 million ha would be photographed at a scale of 1:60,000,
some 45 million ha at a scale of 1:30,000, and the remaining 4.5 million
ha, located in areas of denser land occupation, at a scale of about
1:15,000. Orthophotomaps or line-maps covering all photographed areas
would be produced.
60.       Identification of land tenure conditions in mapped areas
totalling about 31 million ha would involve: (a) analysis of the line of
conveyance of land properties in these areas, aided by microfilms of all
relevant registry documents to be provided by INCRA at no incremental cost
to the project; (b) broad publicity given to the Government's intention to
review and regularize ownership rights in the areas selected for land
adjudication; (c) field surveys leading to the delimitation of private and
public properites; (d) identificationaof all tenants and occupants in
adjudicated areas and evaluation of their ownership claims; and, (e) a
census of the infrastructure and perennial crops found on the land to
establish a preliminary estimate of the potential and value of the land.
61.       Each of the ten project states would establish a cadastre to
process and store geographic and economic data generated by the preceding
components. These cadastres will be developed in accordance with uniform
technical standards set by INCRA and will provide the basis for the
production of about I million computerized title documents for rural
properties in the ten states. About 30% of these would be recognition
documents for valid titles issued by past administrations. Simplified
registration procedures which already exist on paper would have to be
applied to enable the land registry offices to cope with their
substantially increased workloads. Cadastral data will be regularly
updated and made available for a fee to all users.



- 19 -
62.       Project activities in support of land restructuring would include
technical and economic studies (assessments of land capability and
potential use) for the selection of land to be acquired and redistributed
by INCRA and the OETs within the conditions established in the 'Estatuto de
Terra"; physical planning of areas to be redistributed; planning,
delimitation, demarcation and .itling of the resulting plots; and,
contracting and supervision of supporting infrastructure works. ibout 3.0
million ha are expected to be redistributed to some 130,000 families. Land
to be redistributed could include some state land to be recovered by the
OETs through adjudication but would mainly be private land to be acquired
by INCRA or the states through expropriation or purchase. Land acquisition
and supporting infrastructure works are not components of the project.
Land acquisition would be funded solely with federal resources, allocated
either to INCRA or to the states, while infrastructure works would be
financed with PAPP/community development funds or funds from other planned
sectoral projects. INCRA, SUDENE and each project state have reached
agreement on the funding procedures and preferred methods of land
acquisition. It is expected that about 70% of the acquisitions in each
state would be achieved through expropriation, with the remainder being
purchased. Assurances were received from the Borrower that it shall take
and cause each of the project states to take all actions necessary to
acquire land in a timely manner to meet the land redistribution targets
defined in the operational agreements signed between INCRA, SUDENE and each
of the project states (Section 4.02, draft Loan Agreement). Assurances
were also received from INCRA that beneficiaries of land redistribution
activities would be charged the full value of the land that they are
allocated (including improvements specifically allocated to each
beneficiary), determined in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank. Terms of payment for land would provide for: (i) monetary
correction of the value of land equal to the correction prevailing for
agricultu.al investment credit for small farmers in the project area; (ii)
an interest rate in line with those prevailing for agricultural investment
credit for small farmers in the project area; and, (iii) a repayment period
of not less than 15 years (Section 4.03, draft Project Agreement).
63.       The project would help strengthen the institutional capabilities
of the OETs by providing staff training and technical assistance, as well
as office buildings and equipment. On-the-job training of OET field staff
would be provided mainly by experienced surveyors who will be contracted
from private firms to assist the OETs carry out field activities during the
initial period of project implementation. The project would also finance
short-term technical courses for some 300 topographers, 300 field
technicians and 100 agronomists. Field staff and agronomists would be
trained in topography, photogrammetry and cadastral legislation. Some 60
data processing and mapping specialists would be trained in the use of the
computer equipment and software of the project, mainly by the supplier
firm. If and as required, this training would be preceded by four months
of training in data bank management at a local university. The overall
program for technical training in the various areas has been prepared by
INCRA. Management training would be provided by specialized private firms,
according to a program to be defined through the proposed institutional
studies (para. 65), to some 80 regional office chiefs, about 80 to 100 OET
senior staff and some 10 INCRA staff administering the project. The OETs



- 20 -
would also receive technical assistance from some 15 INCRA technical and
institutional specialists. The building and equipment component would
include the construction of office buildings for OET headquarters (with the
exception of Minas Gerais, which already has a building adequate for
project purposes), rental of office space for OET regional units, and the
acquisition of equipment required for cadastral and titling operations.
64.       Incremental administration costs resulting from the
implementation of the project would be financed by the project. These
would mainly be the salaries and travel costs of 10 INCRA state program
coordinators and part of the administration costs of the OETs. The project
monitoring costs at field level by the OETs, and at OET headquarters level,
by INCRA and the OETs jointly, are also included under this category.
65.       The institutional studies to be carried out under the project
would examine: (a) possible improvements in OET management structures,
procedures and regulations and their implications for INCRA's functions and
structures, taking into account past INCRA and OET land activities and
experience, particularly under the IDB-financed land project; and, (b)
means of achieving the gradual integration of the multipurpose cadastre
produced by the project with the traditional INCRA fiscal cadastre, and the
feasibility and institutional implications of unifying the rural and urban
cadastres.
66.       Various legal studies would provide recommendations for
strengthening the legal value of the titles issued under the project and
for reducing possible judicial bottlenecks in the adjudication process.
These studies would review:  (a) legislation on land adjudication
operations, in order to improve procedures for the analysis of the titles
and rights of absentee owners, tighten the review procedures of all claims
to landownership, and limit foreclosure rights to a reasonable period after
completion of land adjudication; (b) cadastral legislation, to ensure and
reinforce, as necessary, the linkages between state cadastres and land
registries; and, (c) court procedures, to simplify and accelerzte the
judicial resolution of land conflicts, especially the handling of claims
not resolved through administrative adjudication procedures.
67.       Various socioeconomic studies would examine:  (a) the present
tenure conditions within large- and medium-sized farms, and the impact of
Brazilian tenancy laws and of different socioeconomic factors on such
conditions; (b) the services traditionally provided by large landowners to
their tenants and means to provide chem to newly 'franchised" farmers; (c)
land taxation principles and procedures, and the appropriate institutions
which should determine and collect the taxes; and, (d) the impact of
various Government programs and fiscal incentives on land tenure
structures. The analysis of the PROALCOOL program and sugar subsidies
would rely mainly on the findings of ongoing studies by the Joao Pinheiro
Foundation and further studies funded under other Bank-financed projects.
68.       The above studies are expected to generate policy and operational
recommendations for improving the efficiency of land operations and land
tenure conditions. Assurances were received from INCRA that: (a)
consultants would be employed according to the timetable established in the



- 21 -
operational agreements with the project states (para. 71) to study OET
management structures, staffing and methods; (b) the conclusions and
recommendations of such study would be sent to the Bank for review and
comment; and, c) the resultin.g recommendations would be put into effect
promptly upon receipt of the Bank's comments (Section 2.02 (a), draft
Project Agreement). Furthermore, assurances were also received from INCRA
that: (a) terms of reference for cadastre integration, legal and
socioeconomic studies would be presented to the Bank for review no later
than six months after loan signature; (b) consultants to carry out these
studies would be employed not later than nine months after loan signature;
and, (c) the conclusions and recommendations of these studies would be
furnished to the Bank. (Section 2.02(b), draft Project Agreement).
Implementation Arrangements
69.       Overall policy guidance to the project, in relation to the
broader Northeast Rural Development Program, would be provided by an
Interministerial Commission on the Northeast, consisting of the Secretary
General of the Ministry of Interior (Chairman) and representatives from
SEPLAN, the Ministry of Agriculture, MIRAD, the Ministry of Finance and
SUDENE. This commission, which also decides priorities in the allocation
of federal resources among projects under the Northeast Program, has
confirmed the high priority attached by the Government to this project.
Direct responsibility for project administration and supervision at the
federal level would rest with INCRA. INCRA would: (a) establish
operational norms and provide technical assistance to the OETs; (b)
contract out and supervise all aerial photogrammetric operations and
studies to be undertaken by private firms and consultants; (c) produce
microfilms of all land registry archives; (d) acquire land with federal
funds; and, (e) establish and maintain a central cadastre where state-level
data would be integrated. Assurances were received from INCRA that the DI,
the principal INCRA directorate responsible for these activities, would
receive the full assistance and cooperation from the other INCRA
directorates involved in project implementation (Section 3.01(b), draft
Project Agreement).
70.       At the state level, the OETs of the ten project states would plan
and implement the various project acti7ities. These include: (a)
undertaking land adjudication operations (including a review of land
registry documents, cadastral records, and documents presented by claimants
to landownership, field surveys, demarcation of boundaries); (b)
determining the legality of various ownership claims; (c) establishing and
maintaining computer-based cadastres; (d) producing title documents for all
recognized landowners; (e) conducting studies leading to the selection and
valuation of properties which could be acquired by the Government for
redistribution; (f) planning and supervision of land redistribution and
related infrastructure investments with assistance from specialized state
agencies; (g) administering acquired lands until these are redistributed;
and, (h) administering land operations under other ongoing Bank- or
IDB-financed projects, incorporating all data produced by such projects
into the cadastres developed under this project.



- 22 -
71.       Project implementation procedures and the mutual obligations of
the major implementing institutions have been defined in operational
agreements signed by INCRA, SUDENE and each of the ten project states.
These agreements also define: (a) areas to be surveyed and adjudicated in
each state; (b) the structures, basic staff requirements, recruitment
program and salary targets of each OET, including the rules for gradually
increasing state financing of these expenditures; (c) the technical
specifications of the state data banks and corresponding equipment
requirements; and, (d) land acquisition and redistribution in accordance
with the requirements of the PAPP. Assurances were received from the
Borrower and INCRA that SUDENE or INCRA would not: (a) modify without Bank
agreement any provision of the operational agreements with the seven states
where Bank funds would be disbursed (para. 81); and (b) modify the
agreements with the other project states in a way which would depart from
the technical and policy criteria and financial and institutional
arrangements established for the preceding seven states (Section 3.02,
draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.01(c), draft Project Agreement).
Detailed programming and budgeting of project activities would be done
annually, based on the multi-year targets defined in the agreements, and
taking into account the land-related requirements of the Northeast Rural
Development Program.
72.       The staffing requirements of the OETs vary considerably.  The
newer OETs would immediately recruit and train the field staff needed for
land adjudication operations. The older OETs which are considered
overstaffed are already taking measures to have their excess personnel
transferred to other state agencies. Their remaining staff, who have been
trained in older techniques, would receive the same training as that given
to staff of the newer OETs. Overall, the recruitment and training targets
of the project, while more ambitious than those of ongoing IDB- and
Bank-financed land operations, are feasible. Qualified professionals are
available in Brazil and could be brought into the OETs with proper
financial and professional motivation. The salary structure planned for
the project is considered to provide adequate financial incentives. OET
professional and administrative staff will be recruited in accordance with
objective criteria and selection procedures to be monitored by INCRA.
73.       Land adjudication, in order to be fair, efficient and successful,
would require the cooperation of farmers in the areas covered.
Furthermore, small farmers have to be assisted in defending their rights as
occupants or owners. The agreements between INCRA, SUDENE and the states
require the states to provide the necessary legal assistance to farmers'
unions, with funds from the PAPP, to: (a) promote farmer involvement in
land adjudication activities; (b) ensure the widest possible publicity
concerning these activities before their start and after completion; and,
(c) provide legal assistance to small farmers with grievances concerning
the adjudication procedures and results through channels independent of the
land authorities.
Implementation Schedule
74.       The project would be implemented within a period of three and a
half years in order to provide timely support to the parallel



- 23 -
Bank-supported Northeast Rural Development Program. There is no prior
experience on similar projects against which to compare the proposed
implementation schedule. If properly managed, the project could be
completed within such a period, considering: (a) the more efficient
methods being introduced by the project; (b) its emphasis on further
gradual but substantial strengthening of the land institutions, already
initiated during project preparation; and (c) the experience generated by
the IDB-finant-ad project (whose land adjudication and titling components
are expected to be completed about a year ahead of the four-year
schedule).
Monitoring and Evaluation
75.       OETs would monitor field activities on a uniform basis in order
to permit interstate cost and efficiency comparisons and overall program
evaluation by INCRA. Progress reports of project activities based on the
OET monitoring reports would be prepared by INCRA semi-annually for
transmittal to the Bank. In addition, project activities would be subject
to two types of external evaluation. An evaluation of the performance and
progress of INCRA, the OETs and other entities involved in the execution of
the project would be done by independent consultants. Baseline data for
this assessment would be generated by the OET management study (para. 65).
The impact of land activities on their target population and on rural
development activities would be evaluated in each state by SUDENE under the
respective Northeast rural development projects, with PAPP financing. The
initial cadastral surveys would produce most of the baseline data for this
impact evaluation. Preliminary system and (insofar as they are available)
impact evaluations of this and previous land projects will be carried out
when half of the loan amount will have been disbursed, and updated during
the last year of project implementation.
Project Costs and Financing
76.       Total project cost at October 1984 prices is estimated at
US$250.5 million, including about US$7.5 million of taxes. The estimated
foreign exchange component is US$95.8 million, or about 38% of total
project cost. All project costs, including related administration
overhead, are creating assets in the form of new state cadastres and
greater agricultural production potential achieved through more secure
landownership and a more equal land distribution. They are, therefore,
considered as capital expenditures. Cadastre maintenance costs are not
included in total project cost. Also excluded are the costs of various
activities which would contribute to the achievement of project objectives
but would not be financed under the project (microfilming of land registry
archives, land acquisition costs, legal assistance to farmer unions and
training of judges, state lawyers and farmer union staff). Physical
contingencies of 20X have been applied to the baseline costs of land tenure
identification, buildings and data processing equipment; 10%, to other
equipment and ground control operations; and, 5%, to remaining components.
The overall average physical coatingencies amount to 12% of baseline
costs. The price contingencies of 9.2Z that have been applied to baseline
costs plus physical contingencies assume that the exchange rate of the
Brazilian cruzeiro will be periodically adjusted to compensate for any



- 24 -
domestic inflation in excess of international inflation. Price
contingencies were calculated in US dollars at 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and
8% in 1987 and 1988 for all project costs.
77.       Given the cliumatic constraints limiting the periods during which
aerial pictures can be taken, and in order to ensure timely and effective
project implementation, aerial photogrammetry operations in areas to be
adjudicated during the first year of project implementation have been
initiated under advance contracting in the last quarter of 1984. The costs
of these initial contracts (US$13.3 million) are included in total project
costs.
78.       The proposed Bank loan of US$100.0 million would finance about
42% of total project costs, net of taxes and the cost of data processing
equipment (para. 80). This would cover all of the foreign exchange
component of expenditures (excluding data processing equipment) incurred in
the States of Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do
Norte and Sergipe, about US$71.8 million; the foreign exchange component of
the various studies, $0.1 million; and, US$28.1 million of local costs.
The balance of project financing would be provided by the Federal
Government, minly through FINSOCIAL funds, with possible financing from
the IDB, which is expected to participate in the financing of activities in
the states of Alagoas, Minas Gerais and Paraiba which have a total cost of
about US$54.6 million. The states would finance a small but gradually
increasing proportion of OET expenditures.
Procurement
79.       Initial aerial photogrammetric services were procured during the
last quarter of 1984 through local competitive bidding (LCB) open to
foreign firms. Subsequcnt aerial photogrammetric services would be divided
for purposes of procurement into separate aerial photography and
cartography components. This division is not expected to adversely affect
the overall cost and execution of the whole aerial photogrammetry
operations. The cartography component (US$68.3 million) wouLd be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB).- At the Government's
request on security grounds, the corresponding aerial photography component
(US$9.6 million, divided among some 30 tenders), for which ample domestic
contracting capability exists, would be procured through LCB from local
firms only.
80.       Land tenure identification, cadastre implementation, titling,
land restructuring operations, project administration and most staff
training, totalling US$127 million, would be implemented directly by the
staff of INCRA and the OETs, which bear the legal responsibility for the
resulting titles. Initial assistance from private firms in land tenure
identification (US$3.5 million) would be procured by INCRA through LCB
procedures. Foreign firms would not be excluded but are not likely to be
interested given the small size of individual contracts and the language
requirements. OET buildings and cars (US$18.6 million) would be procured
in each ;.ate through LCB procedures defined by Federal Decree-Law 200



- 25 -
which are acceptable to the Bank. Minor office equipment (US$1.5 million)
would be acquired through prudent local shopping. Electronic data
processing equipment (US$7.1 million) required for cadastral purposes would
be procured through the local representative of the main international
producer of such equipment and would not be eligible for Bank financing.
Assurances were received from INCRA that it would: (a) furnish to the Bank,
not later than 90 days after loan signature, a proposal, satisfactory to
the Bank, on the technical and institutional issues related to the
establishment of the state cadastres, including the specifications of the
equipment to be utilized; and (b) not later than April 30, 1986,
acquire this equipment and have it installed by each of the project
states (Section 2.01(d), draft Project Agreement). Consultancy services,
totalling about 220 mn-months, would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines, at base costs of about US$7,000 per month. For all aerial
photogrammetry contracts, purchases of cars and all other contracts
exceeding US$500,000, the Bank would review and approve standard
procurement documents and specifications prior to bidding, and bid
evaluations and award recommendations prior to signing contracts.
bisbursements
81.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed only against
expenditures made with respect to the states of Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao,
Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe, and against 100Z of all
studies. The Bank loan would be disbursed on the basis of 80% of the cost,
net of duties and taxes, of photogrammetric services acquired through ICB
procedures. This excludes aerial photography services and electronic data
equipment, against which no disbursements would be made. No disbursements
would be made against project administration staff. Disbursements for
buildings, cars, travel for staff training and technical assistance
purposes, land tenure identification, land restructuring, cadastre
implementation and titling would be made at a uniform rate of 50%, under
Statements of Expenditures initiated by the various executing agencies and
certified by INCRA. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the
Bank but would be retained by INCRA and made available for inspection by
the Bank during project supervision missions. Standard documentation
covering aerial photogrammetry services, buildings, vehicles and consultant
services would be submitted to the Bank. Disbursements are expected to
occur over four years (para. 74). The closing date of the loan would be
September 30, 1988.
82.       To assist the early start of activities complementary to the
initial aerial photogrammetry operations which are now underway,
retroactive financing of up to US$7.0 million would be considered for
expenditures incurred after January 1, 1985, for land tenure
identification, project administration and training activities of the OETs,
including the acquisition of required cars and equipment.
83.       In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finance the Bank's share of project financing with its own resources, a
Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit
of US$8 million. The Government may request the Bank to make advance
payments in dollars from the loan account into this Special Account.



- 26 -
Withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure. The Central Bank
would send the corresponding Statements of Expenditure to the Bank, which
would then replenish the Special Account.
Account and Audit Requirements
84.       Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate
accounts of its project expenditures, which would be audited annually by
the Central Secretariat of Internal Control (SECIN) of the Ministry of
Finance according to standard government practice. The audit report would
convey the auditor's opinion on the adequacy of procedures used for the
preparation and verification of statements of expenditures and their
accuracy, eligibility for financing in accordance with legal agreements,
and the standard of record keeping and internal controls. The Special
Account would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
Audit reports would be forwarded to the Bank through INCRA within six
months after the close of each project fiscal year.
Benefits and Justification
85.       The greater security of tenure, the project activities in support
of land restructuring, and the planned improvements in the system of
collecting and updating cadastral data would yield significant benefits.
It is not possible to quantify these benefits because of lack of data and
empirical studies. The choice of least cost approaches among several
technological alternatives has, therefore, been a basic objective in the
preparation of the project. The evaluation of the impact of land
activities referred to earlier (para. 75) should help obtain quantified
estimates of project benefits which can be used in the preparation of
future projects.
86.       Available evidence indicates, however, that with security of
tenure, farmers would acquire better access to on-farm investment credit
and would be more motivated to improve their land. A recent study
conducted in sample areas of the IDB-financed land project in the Northeast
shows that in practically all areas and farm size categories investigated,
average per hectare investment was higher in farms with a title, compared
to farms without. The difference ranged from 20% to 80% in more than half
of the categories and was higher than this range in most of the remaining
categories. The same study also showed that, other things being equal,
land with a title was worth at least 10% more than land without.
87.       Clarification of ownership rights and better tenure conditions
are also expected to reduce land conflicts and their usually violent
outcomes, contribute to a slowing in rural/urban migration, and reduce the
waste of resources associated with the present costly and time consuming
movements of sharecroppers to different lots each year. Furthermore, an
improved cadastral data base would strengthen the Government's ability to
administer land resources and promote patterns of land tenure and use
consistent with the country's agricultural and social objectives. In
particular, by helping provide an improved valuation basis for land taxes,
the project would help promote a more intensive use of agricultural land,
particularly in the larger, under-utilized farms.



- 27 -
88.       The project would result in the adjudication of some one million
plots in the Northeast region. Of these, some 300,000 properties may
already have titles.  The project would confirm those titles, if found
valid, with corrections to the boundaries where required. The main
beneficiaries of the project would, however, be the remaining 700,000
occupant, tenant or landless families, who would either receive a title to
the land they have been working on or be settled on previously public lands
or lands acquired by Government for redistribution purposes. Some 130,000
families are expected to benefit from such land redistribution. It has
been assumed, in other parts of this report, that at least one fifth of
direct project beneficiaries, i.e., about 200,000 farmer families, would
further benefit from improved access to agricultural credit as a result of
the parallel PAPP projects. An undetermined number of sharecroppers and
tenants would also indirectly benefit through improved tenure contracts as
a result of the greater security of titles held by the landowners.
Risks
89.       The various risks which may affect the project are considered
manageable. The project would strengthen the Government's capacity to
implement the agrarian reforms which existing Brazilian legislation is
seeking to promote. As such, it would have political implications at
various levels of Brazilian society. At the level of the federal and state
administration, the project enjoys overall political support. Such support
should result in the allocation of adequate financial and staff resources
to the project on a timely basis. At the level of small farmers, there is
a small risk of adverse political reactions if these farmers perceive that
the project has failed to meet the expectations it generated. The project
could suffer from delays in institutional development, improper
collaboration between agencies (in particular with the state land
registries), legal obstructions from unsatisfied claimants to landownership
or, in the early years, a lower efficiency of staff and/or data processing
equipment than expected. These delays would result in the adjudication of
a smaller area than originally estimated. Therefore, the project puts
heavy emphasis on technical assistance, staff training, and studies of
possible legislative and administrative improvements. Also, the
photogrammetric technologies to be used in the project have already been
extensively used in Brazil. Provided that the quality of the institution
building, land adjudication and titling operations remains satisfactory,
some reduction in the area adjudicated by the project would not reduce the
overall value of the project. The timely implementation of aerial
photography, on which subsequent project activities depend, could be
delayed by unfavorable weather conditions. However, beyond the first
tightly scheduled year, aerial photography operations have been planned so
as to make photographic outputs available up to one year in advance of
subsequent project activities. The immediate self-contained objectives of
the project justify the proposed investment. Fuller benefits would be
derived, however, through the implementation of complementary development
activities such as those envisaged under the Northeast Rural Development
Program.



- 28 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
90.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between INCRA and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
91.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
92.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
93.       I recommend that the Exe'.utive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 31, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-29 -                                        ANNE I_
PaRe 1 of 6
ERAUL                 - SOCIAL INDICAIOUS DAT SHEET
SuRIL                               A"I (WlEITD f                Rl) f
IOC(HUT NCElY ISTISATE) b
sacuaw    u1n26.E INOON          mIDDLAE IcmCU
ISIOL!    j91n/b    S SATr         LAT. AI&ICA  CM             EuRoPE
an (ToWA tD 0. a)
?TTAL                            6512.0      6512.0      ss2.0.
AGRICULTURAL                     U362.4      1901.2     2132.7
P cu nAITA (599)                    330.0       400.0      2240.0           2106.6                   2345.3
CAt
(KILOCR    r Or OIL SQUIVALST)    244.0       4L2.0      740.0             95.                    11122.8
POIULATION,HID-VKAR (TIIOUS)  7254.0        98617.0   126104.0
URAN PFPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)      44.9         55.6      6U.6              6.5                      44.8
POPULATIOU ROJECT1IoNS
POPULATIOII INY 1KA 2000 (NALL)                        161.1
STATIONAKV POUL^ATION (KILL)                           10326
PoPULATION NWam                                           1.
POPULATION DENSITY
PEt SQ. ER.                       6.5        11.3        14.b            35.7                     62.9
Nl SQ. KH. ACRI. LAND           44.4         45.4       52.7             92.4                    156.9
POPULATON AE STRUCTUIRE (S1
u-14 nRS                        43.6        42.7       40.9              39.9                    31.4
35-  Tag                        53.6         54.3       55.6             54.0                     41.1
65 AND ABE                        2.1         3.1        3.5               4.1                     7.1
OIPULATWN GROT PATE (1)
TOTAL                             3.1         2.6        2.3               2.4                     1.4
URIM                              5.7         5.0        4.1               3.4                     3.7
coS  DiTHI RkATE (CE1 T30us)       42.7        35.0       31.2             31.3                     23.4
CRtE WATH MATZ (PEE TUUS)          12.9        10.3        6.1              4.1                      6.S
cSOS5 RIPIODUCTION RATn             2.0         2.4        1.9              2.0                      1.4
PAtLI PLAWINO
ACEEPTOIS. AIUAL TIOIIS)           ..       111.0      203.6 IC
USUS (Z0 or HAIUD Wo)              ..          ..         ..             40.3
FMO AM NUTRITION
INEX OF rOOD PO. PE CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     69.0        102.0      133.0            114.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPLY OF
CALOZIS (C or EEQUIfMYS)        106.0       106.0       107.0            110.6                   126.4
PI.OTEIS (CHMS PER DAY)          64.0        62.0       60.0             67.3                     89.7
OF UICN AIMAL AM 1PL           35.0        34.0        36.0 /d          34.1                    34.5
CHIIII (AGES 1-4) DTRTE KATJ       19.4        12.5        6.0              5.7                      5.2
LIFE EX7ECT. AT BIRTH (TES)        54.7        56.9 1      3.6             64.7                     67.4
INFANT NORT. RATE (FIER TMM)      116.2       92.6        73.4             60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAF5 WATER (IPOP)
TOTAL                              *-        55.0       77.1 /e          45.4
URBAN                              ..        76.0       U.aZ;            76.1
RURAL                              *.        26.0       56.S1:           *6.2
ACCESS TO EXCILTA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        56.0       64.8             52.9
URN                                ..        65.0       13.7 I           67.0
RURAL                              *-        24.0       31.7 7           24.5
POPULATON PU PnIRSICUA          2210.0      2130.0         ..           1317.7                   1045.6
PWO. PERISlIEC  ESON            2310.0       1120.0         ..             15.6                    764.4
POP. PE HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                           310.0       270.0      250.0            3 67.2                   326.3
UI3*3                           250.0       320.0         ..            411.5                    201.5
SURAI.                            ..           ..         ..           2636.3
ADtISSIOllS PER 1IPTAL 3             ..        18.4         ..             27.3                     20.0
AVERCE SIZE OF MOUSSIELD
TOtAL                             5.1         4.6        4.9
URBAN                              ..         4.6        4.7  a
RURAL                              ..         5.2        5.3               .                        *-
AVERAGE NO. OPF FPSONSfROOH
TOTAL                              ..         1.1
UBA                               ..          1.0         .                 ..
RURL                               ..         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (S 0f  USIO)
TObiL                            38.7        47.6       67.4
UIBAN                              ..        75.6       u..
RURAL                              *-         *.4       20.6



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
*4S7Lk                -*,oLk  3OC1AL ILDCATORIS SD AR ATM
71 - 5L  ~ ~~~~ - I               _ cno      C -     ID AVItUC) la
NOBT                  S  XTC    AN) 7b
WOb      I9Ot7      U    IT    LAT. SAm            a cmU       BR
ADJUSTED  11U1I RIATIO
MUTY:  TOML                      95.0         64.0       93.0             105.4                    101.1
NUA                    97.0        14.0        93.0             106.3                   LOS.5
13L61                  93.0        84.0        93.0 PA          104.5                    96.7
itCOo**t  TOTAL                  11.0         26.0       32.0 I            42.2                     59.1
RAZX                   11.0        26.0        29.0 ib          42.2                     66.9
YaUw                   10.0        27.0         5.0             44 ".                     50.6
VOCATIONAL CI 07 RCOMM)            13.6         16.7       S9.2 L            33.6                     21.6
?U?ZL-'1ACUU  SATMO
FDIAR!                           33.0         28.0       26.0              30.1                     25.1
IIC0UDAR1                        13.0         11.0       14.0              16.3                     20.5
ADULT LT2UACT KATZ CZ)             61.0         6.2        76.0              79.5                     75.6
1AU3VZK CASS/TBOU*IND M0            7.6         16.6       46.9              66.0                     54.7
RDIO R=IVuS/USMD POP               65.4        106.4      165.1             225.6                    164.9
TV 11bZ,VZRSt)USM  10P             16.5         44.3       11t.7            107.2                    123.6
I3IAP2R ("DAILY  LUL
11IR381) CIRCULATO
M  TOUSA  POVMATION              52.9         35.6       44.0/             63.5                     96.3
CM        AUAZA ATUNUANC/API        4.4          2.0         1.3  h           2.8                      2.9
TOUL lJI  OC   CICUS)           23326.0      30411.0    40365.0
1MU2* (C MT)                     17.2         20.1       23.2              23.2                     34.5
ARCULURI (PUCuIIS)               51.9         45.6       29.9              31.5                     40.7
I NDtPP  (PECENT)                14.6         16.3       24.4              23.9                     23.3
paICXPATMON RT (FUT)
TOUL                             32.1         31.7       31.8              32.2                     42.9
AIl                             52.7         50.3       48.9              49.3                     54.7
Fog=1*                           11.2         1LJ        14.8              15.2                     31.0
UCDlIC DEPDMCT RATIO                1.4          1.4        1.4               1.4                      0.9
-- nBmnw
1IPzRc Or MRVATE INCaZ
RIGMST SZ 01 UOUS UZ               ..           ..         ....
11635 2020 OOUSE0LUS             60.0         63.5       62.0 .
LOVEST 20S OIOUSCHOLDS           3.8          3.2        2.6                .        
LOWEST 402 01 EOUSENOLDS         10.8          9.0        9.4                 .
UTMT    ABLU  TOUR! ICoSmD
LEL CUSJ PE CAPT)
DREAM                              ..           ..         ..             268.2
RURAL                              ,.           ..      O150. /           134.0
ZSTDATE   ATIYC POUm! IICOPM
LML (USS PER CAIT
0u38*                              ..           ..      465.0 Ad          522.8
RUL                                ..           ..      332.0 /d          372.4
EWI D PO0. 1.w ASSOLUTE
POVT DINU   LEl.M (2)
UllN                               ..           ..         .                  ..
RAL                                ..           ..         ..                ..
NOT AVAIVLA
NOT APPLICAB1Z
N O TE S
/a  Mm group averagee far each indiestor are populatlio-weighted artbtit  _ae. Covege of co,mtrie  among the
Indle ton deped oan avelabillty of data and la not welfare.
_b  UnQal  othewise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" beten 1969 and
1971; and data for "-brc NACent Estlmste' betwee 1960 and 1982.
le  1975; /d I 977; / o   1976; / 1979;   RagiLana  1973 primary and secondary eduction cover ag groupe 7-14 and _1-17
mt -d of 7-10 and JLl-lBtIn earlir yeair; therefore.  oAt recent estmtae  area not comparable with earlir data;
A  1978.
UN,1934



- 31-                                                                            ANNEX I
grmumsfmunaim'                                                                    Page 3 of 6
lnIi.   4Mhb.  it. dii.i   dome i        "'....a.ajImbrogioa 1-tid mw"  --iesed it   iliii dI.tlbu-. to Assd a.9   .  siaim  it.. it.  mg sol hi iaiai -iu-
itmrihl. ba        st it. l    if idaidailaidmm                     iaw -aid or jwuerfuid wadear  hi itItiadl iti d , Ut. dissC ei.m         u.     . .i.fla t.
Ut. .iaaiai, or..   my (I) iii .u   miii?t u.m         B t  .*..mii   i   2  agesar.  mu-  aug adymbb hip.. aai.i  Ibay hai- i. searg, git,if it.
-6h-it marraii   i                 amilialai  amp ii.. gmddi                       mm% baimiti. eddNIa. bit- ma des..  =-             .0, ussmma  .al-ggsaluar
.0.aahlsia. 5. it. a.l.t'-se, iii  Si." it. _..f_ a   papiia"'ga u-"pid  rub-at.                liFt a-S als.i.a- d ibm aate.4   o im g..J May .1 iCM ai-au. a..
e." Ids "'" f-. a" ledlaaii.  Umd  a it                pC1i   refele- ua"iiaAi. lididti depeade -e iM  spoltatllo, if diii-1  ii  it u-lfte. ser-lu  esg hi
...elest i t. tIbeg" eretee at -   IsIuui  a  iit.f  lu-i aaiW ii  -II, a-il W ameu    it. ua- "' me lidihisif ii    eg-. ses t. seraay, ai
g Iss-h..al e".mit..                                                                     !ihiuVa.mf,h.hI.tt  di-14" bf bal  af paimbeli
aid liii diia.                                               P..alua~~~~~~~~~~~Iaqi. a.l.q F.t.aiu- tpilii It duutagapsItii  if  laiii
MJlhll      iaetsew  if  =itqlkeal aps -Mi srepM.y  r1ut..i,.l paid- lu-. saiam   mm.                                           -pasai    e.i. et.aili. itt.. aid
"pal..uitt  i hitihii jia         ii Mlto haUm  1116.                     -Imeyi  iulaUi.w
esbpe  V uss-ades-.. hAi.d - bald iil Aila. (IWO2 -il aiit                         midllniaim sai.asn. agopuit.ai . am abl =li-  persessttr a"id i
mu-. type. ad :twr diii.                                                                   If .I lady-f    yhti,[lit   40utllI.WMid  pa-aim d          ,.i  yfil sl1a aiadi.
*  11.,7 amin,.. ,~ ~. Ar-aLa  ippitai-  --aiiles ii - ft&.&                               =-tal soasau  iiit pal Iml  Wut.id by . p6hy19alaib It..       . iidiiaI
P.-pa, -.   -&  ..M;eidl.uaes sti  mea  a. aid I'di-. aiaiai                        baseltd. seaiia ildil. mr.S .k.c atIas l-gagasec amimies g  it.
aid paai-hil Iai *Ityil Li lhiatau- if "il il.lalt ii. maplia  IUD.                           Oper.ldia Itlt f2- aq i- f M.amL  litIi
3110. -a  son, dii.                                                                       MIni.fL S              L    - 1t.UL a.~  if a0diualu- W    diiber".i
differa  Aiii diltta      a  .     iu di- L se    qa1f iblUif i did.                      it. gbwl u-i u-.    hai a         tbd    Wadai- ..  i -  -,    hir litlidisd I.
i     - laaiti pgleasalet ufiljuamime it. game it two                   i  ai.ime pal i    fti   aimes. -W pepe  -mid iniudl
MM C      -ME va    -au ai t    -I  M.liaIa  ad I-UnUCP                            dailliqa. seai.iail..1    mlliq.4  a-etda inin            trewir- OAd
u-Lid lyar, ia-L. -d fu-!* It". -aipiiatiu  a-li Ullt id, 11.3                          ces-ilI? Ii llw usas                          i m  auiti -    uit t
Faire. Ilt. psassers  li fiut,li  raia ala. h- Whoim  a"".                             .iWek tid l,ai,m. A   -'.L 4millie  praiu-iii.
ai ,.'  mIlit A. ftaiu air maIdlil Ii I-   fteil  i-i p       lu-I,a
P"..         0II~      .db....lie ai.       ad susd- - Iba         di?               ROMEi.iu..al   i  hii
caldsetes sC   10192V ea ftiitlid  aelS. ft,iua.il ii-fuaiiLIi
.id 9:  t.   it:~hu-tmit.tt..a "mamame. itdan   s; it.                                                                  - 0-a:i: 2 it::   t  -f P'-L-S.
iti  b    ilailites t? a-aisd it .ambiam sil  l                                       pmL C-1ail aiiuaAtMmz itmut. Isla d. u-da.. mid 4-li
a.pfidimati  veill .  t- ut . paui'atLi. iU. baint has ..i seatt.                         pait. hit aojdgd ft- diflat.asI  Stit   Pf vilii  i6-safe  it,
Ze .-i    he  -ft-ft   gh  d.umma2.  ss  immr.  d a.               iadelw   .01   Waiawu- a-it,.  -1-t                        .3-dId   W
d.Aw M.i Ia Vii.I. ai"t-A-    pipiuitles. i    sed sassmed it it.                          1-i-  mas  uli.t.  hm. i We     iai it af "ia  atual ed.
b-S. Or h. P-j-  hersex-atars  r  . P"J"Is  1. el.                 a f2! a.M auh      ia    WIii. at.luia  Cbpud it -lii- di
mm1. sw i%. Fat, =f dli. if ispaiillr p.in.   p,ia--i Iaai.                                      srpmi a-t. -ia__  ~        a _ifppe.i."  "&-la.. i.t,ii
hif   it. tEm    Z. L     .iima-lit  lImsbafts Ea..M I'tatdi                          m-ld il aulpiIS. - ii p.a  .1-M ml  I..li  -i  u-l-  ii,
hi. au  ifS.. it. aid aa,.d-ii"  .-  lit hiilal ssft.  It.                               A.-It.ii  uItda
sesemsai f   papmilitia. Iii. 7-g, J hi aimad -  a Sit. if itaseal.   ..IlaradMiW                                   i  i~.uo     i.maia t timlaid
iLltliilasiiia-it? seIuiit asit  k himlai  i  t  -             Al.ad.                   ia    iini.                        iEpreoppess    I        reia
.iiit. =ida diii.                                                                                                                         u.,iu-ui  sgsald S.
iattaua  li. IlySa.d maigls di..                         ~t  .b                              ,     I           - Uiaual sAWii Caba s - m ." d -1m.l 
fFor s. h.. W" Altui.ifa  1st - taqutid it  at.- ltw adalhiliiF'l Ip"                     wa pima, atGm iaiiew- psy-moiltx mid I,  .aii aid  ..
,apFae"MIND. ItO. sedi uita.&
a.r  atl Isma"Ner                adI i-l ita.aaati                                      WWI....  itmis' p.   a.6. Whiii  aatultl -  Ali y. al  dii.  ali
,i..haitaiilIt.. lI a             nesse-I diii.        'iii. iiirets b M.-- pa gesi.  p.aaa   aa.lid W   ..   ctibmsai. s.i.ai
,embeds  llt    tl daW                                                   lu--iUAmd..s.opope u-1i   kamil..T.sy                        9 Wft
Cai..W                   reptAa. di sr - a   -I dli- posea-it.9 ii  I.~utsi   a                     MISM                     i I f l-l i faa tI mi
Nago.                       Fi -h.i  diiaa-.1  ii   il.-l.ade                                           d   Iam   i  ma-lI    u-.u   ifpI-     ma -.  It . i  a
V .  Is-Ise         ial. Wf i  a      -la.put           -u-ul                      m es . W    .ai345.. ftpases  l  tt1.idautlai-  a- it.au -
litulaip  id..  mat   ft'.jit mwasse    s"Col.u I-i th de. 111. aictFiit.i   -uiIgau  ita. Wt T-iu- e  dafldit -.i   Cii
F-1    __  ___    lease____grs   ____C___     _  -   m at  m.."   if    -it,ai                1t M      ., I  s u a .i      m      n i u        -
rid. taati -W   p baa  daa"utess a  as tij merge -                                                .L    u          t..tat  s   --..i ai...a'.n
m,fartriss itC ..i ifMatP Li.  I." il  aiwit.0 ia-   -.  at                          lApiLI..  ..".
MMld.AM   aua im       Wmea, a"m 1.1. aum m    aI'u-..u-i.lamdi. .a
m         ta.  r v-  ml..                                        t~~~~p.alil. f  tt . . lll  iter    hi ai-toit  aititIt a,. us .
ma u- ~it-                                                                            .m.abia   mlis.'tI"  it. Il- dai.             I    rp tstt
J-d a  .1F. Fa-Ismei v-.  4-1s. ;ili.?itfil ta   i pna.e aili.                           maie.6 -m          bait . . W  b.. gm" . l ah Ip-& aitmi atw i.t. glt  hAm
l-d    ai-, sai smer Maideamult   Fad sere.a  spa.tsw a -id adC-LjJ~t   * Left                                     Fit.. IF "'d  .   mauel.mii 
fit.  sed ta       it-dl1  taiMoome. pu rtI    -aai  pa       . aiaI..                                           S.iF6a-i~i lai V--amp hut ltm    I~l  a'dm Idta.lol
gameta W    i     i -W-L --     I'ved". it. dliii a   mil. itiim.t  (a.a               li.a.lamal- i.  ItIiidli.atiu-a. btil.
itt Ii ad iiua. iiuidid. .mi   uiu-iiai if mamitmi  hifadu -a-                                                           it_ i, a.,lIt.. fa       sli.   i
tii-W ufat    fa.t" pfu           n-    -at.. u- ai    --ii ry 1111. seade ili,          ad tail diii.                                                  -"-t
seaebe, d-sall pmaiai                  uses  - -o Fm                                     am. Ma-ai   a.-        b iaitlIit  ,. luisrlugF lmit
seere mai    ifsys A. seik  .m-             b.1f Ia maipp. u-fta ...m                              ads .at. tS   '" lu-a PMil-i. if all  goes -fpit".a.
q-. -latin. 9 S-0ta   maaeIT          l mat.  t. diuaw.ua=       Rmu-                     Ill satIPs, ade tai diii. Ib    -ibd           m     ittiai.
am..ald        iib  m aIi.d lit aiefiautsatud  atai  lad -Ld.afah.   aai.ai mft it pi-tatia.- -ad lit a16m iaid   as
qatutit* sid h-doai .Wfawiaul.a    a.I   tilii.    ql.                                    a beeru   i u   I...ste -lu-I u-F      3-4
mi aed -e dmaia"2tt if Pey"s"'l., ad ithIag2 to i-mae  fa u-ti
atmi ld ha.L          two-l  1) ad  lit data.                                          iamli
at.mpti  at laid ose    . lit mrll    fit . h difteai   t ib-.  hi-                    mim. la   ipi                    & hii  bmlaa.a   hali A*- limt i
st  i    Same id imi pail.        p..di a"d  Nt Su- if u-mo, ad
if aielt  pisuft" se a.  ..a.P lt it. u-i. pa-iya   ii.mId hi tMaaiid alit    idaa,ula u-thi
VA"a                                                                                     iflaimlia.sItg-s.[n   4  m   m
dei-id 1  I-i)bl               imas S - per-i  ma p.  a-a    Iabutidse"                              h le"WeePA ml 5.... fast t'Oll  -ft" sal)-ii.It.    -4
Ciiaii I-)di   -ldI.  ll  il   lId. 59A10- adle VWO    a                                   ii-             fb    -?         i isat I,. u-luMI- flit it. t.t
e~~~ Ame dwg."  ft- lift tftkn L90. two                          ai.=ad-fShitMui Cik R       b..- a. F.aau 2-i2 t.   q..1ft ti..t) - L.t
*    f   --      d   atragei 1yes. jUl ad tail daa.
atitua...% i a21. Auaaaiai if ia..liapaa4                                                                                             Assayi   7"ad li9it -
soe,-OiPI..e aCaiulse el-w   ad iiaa-  ri W wada                                                                              bWo  AIiSrmlii  aid V      aa- il-li
amtadaiiad a    - u   - uat Ime  pita- tailes. apa. ad                                                                                 J-  &"G
aali7 -Ul-) it pasbrao if ball ai-p-itl OwAsldut. hi s
aim   -a. Fadedi Saitdh  bei              Imaid uma, ses          MS u-a
ftse a bmio ity hi 's"Idalid se i iwt  itli aim .               ifre,W  ibm
Ims..  lb amel sat... luase     .  uae--ld Merly, am, iCM bale      fa a.
!Lb-a ,i if i.           41t.   det m     Mm. spom. a ii.t.itl-ia uit if
s*..WU. .W1i             .. d                     d..
-  it .~  - i     aiin.      ai.mb                 a     I     i
ad  u-s    byestess t.d             iteged   wasein    dif u  ,alm  a
auI   iitage  -.          L   esed  peyw-s  ss  see



- 32 -
AMN I
NV= - BMNMW nmmcam                                                   Page 4 of 6
vbna1dm:       12.7 1iai (uf&-1933)
CMbr wqAits: 1381,60 (1983)
uEs mfullom at                                                   kn1 Gradi Rat=n (Z)
ISzat Ptm
Indicator                    191/                              Actual                                                       Pro j c ted
1975     19!10    l9Q      1912       n1963    19s-          1985      19S6      1967     1SBB       1969     1990
Nati Am mm
Grmfslc ktobz/              209,800         5.6      7.2    -1.6        0.9      -3.2       4.5           4.3      5.4       6.2       6.7       7.1       7.3
Agalduce                    23,766         2.7      6.2      6.4      -L5         2.2      3.9           3.0       4.0       4.0       4.0      4.5       4.5
Ihutty                      61.192         5.3      7.9     -.2        0.8       -.8       5.8           5.7       7.0      8L0       9.0       9.0       9.1
Seain                      10,173         10.3      7.3    -0.1        1.7       -1.5      3.7           3.5       4.5       5.2      5.5       6.1       6.4
G      _uuwcicn              167.00          6.4      3.5      0.2       3.3       -L0       2.6           7.1       3.3       5.3      7.1       7.6       7.7
Q.. hu.-m/jb                  37.974        -7.0     IL2     -mg,    -4.2         -17.5      4.5           4.3      17.1      11.5      6.7       7.1       7.3
1orm of aIS                   23.625        12.4    2Z.7    20.9        -L4        1.6      2D.0         -4.5        4.6      4.6       5.3       5.3       5.9
1Upts Ef ON5                  19.594        -96       LB    -13.4       4.2       -17.2     17.3         1L4       12.6      9.4       8.2       9.0       9.2
on" NIbmi S.v1                20.043        -64       11.6   -16.6    -1L6         -3.4    2M.6            0.7      2.5       12.4      L4        7.5       7.3
PCow
GOP  1Af r (1970-100)                      105      2,955    5,844    11,63      28,241   9541
zd-W  Ro  4me.rqa$/S                         8.1    5Z.7    93.1       179.5      577.0  18ff.9
Shm  of OP at   fra Pdt    (2)                          A'rnip Aum.1  tm.ee CZ)
(at Oginac    Pdim)                                (9t Otnt 1970 'tim)
1975      19D       19l/c    199D/c                       1975.63   1960385   1985-0
Gram.tc 'tuhzt                      100.0    IOD.O    100.0    1O.O                              6.5       0.8       6.6
Igdrioam                            9.2      IL        8.3       7.5                          9.5       2.2       4.2
Izdttzy                            3L       23.6       31.9      3468                          4.6       0.3       8.5
Serview                            43.6      44.8      43.9      41.9                          7.8       1.3       5.6
p     tlc                            76.6      81.3      74.7     73.5                           7.7      -L8       6.4
Goa,. inm.atumt/b                    27.3      21.1      18.0      21.0                          2.8     -4.2        9.4
UqOarta0FS                            7.5       8.8      13.5      127                           6.4      14.5       5.2
Tpocz  (3Qs                          1L4       11.2       6.2      7.2                          -L3       -L8       9.4
. NAtIami Sdss                       2Z.1      16.1      16.4      10.9                         -L6       -4.5      IL1
A of Z of MP
(i aOrwi Qamiz Pd)
mublic P5sm  (C1  ki_)                                  1970    197S    1979   191/   19B1/k  l9Q
Amet ReWaM                                              16.6    19.8    2D.8   20.1   IL9    21.2
0,zntapadlnam                                           14.4    15.8   17.6    19.8  212    25.4
SUMp]= (+) or Sefldr t-)                                 2.2      4.0     3.2     0.3   -1.4   -4.2
CapI. EUapdto                                            2.6      3.8    3.7      4.1     3.5    3.4
pFuda  (t)                                               0.4    -0.2     0.5      3.9     4.9    7.6
Otar Im                          1975seo  19         5 90
GN P Oatubste (C)                 7.0      0.5     6.9
GNP Per hiM  arwt bAm (           3.0    -1.9      4.5
9mw ommopti  Onrmd Ra  (2)    6.5          -       -
I=                               3.3    20.7      3.1
3hSx=a Suviq br                   0.0   0.5  0.3
cpaMtlc!L7                       -042     -L4      1.4
/a _det   ptI I      ; c_d   am e afmd at fd     cat a3d win no aM da to omaml  of r   ia1         t      ,d
hb  197540 mtt   am   far gm= 1zu..; enti          fwr a_aanuie ym  am for find  ne,nn. s d_h         . In *todw ind0  In ax4tim.
/c Pmje .    at             Pried
/d Pze1Anuzy.
/e Eatdm..
/f  19D-M82 .Snch-  g      eV-dfib    fffatf        s da         b  et ad 'd- g           fim. a   fl  -   F   to thde ad fraln .      n.
April 30. 1985



- -- -                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANN1EX I
-33-                                                             Pag  5 of 6
BRA:.IL - EM ARN.L TRL! /d
hit
;u oAdliau at                     h1ml Gi.U NAta (2) - (St oo.tmt 1970 prIm)
Ogut rde
Indicator                    (1963                                Actual                                                     Projected
1975     1960     1981      19S2       1913      19We    195         1986      19D       19K       1969      1998
1hrzwf Cm Ijpo                 21,N            23.9     21.2      9.9       -3.0       27.5     ZLI        -4.5       4.6       4.6       5.3       5.3       6.0
Pd_,W,                         8,950          30.7     20.4      46.8     -10.1       14.3      9.0       -1.3       4.2       4.2       4.4       4.5       4.7
/b                  10,873          0.0     2Z.5      O6         7.4       435       L.8       -7.0       5.0       5.0       6.0       6.0       7.0
bdimdtm LW5t4                   15.43         -1.        L4      -9.4      -93        -59    3.1           18.4      12.6       9.4       8.2       9.0       9.2
Fad 6 Cr  Coao                1,670           8.2     13.2    -.8         -1.2       -1      11L20        7.6       3.1       5.3       7.3       7.8       8.0
3oinn                         8,4607         -3.6     -9.8     -.0        -L66      -106    -0            09        L         1.3      -1.6       5.9       6.1
3hdrAl  -d qdp                1,895           9.8      6.4    -6.9       -3L2       -1.       3L4        23.9      25.7      138        8.1       8.5       8.
Olum                          3,257         -3.6      -22        3.8     -233       -2L3      23.9       23j        9.8       9.0       10I       10.2     10.3
1mt d        uind                               176      290       252    2 5           192       197       204       Z         238       256       24D       303
Imort Pfim Inr                                  22       431       474       522       493        33        3         3m31      3D        36S       395       425
Tmo cE Tralt AAdm                                72       67        53        43         39        57        62        66        68        10        71        71
Oiyoit  aE lbrdim  Im T       (C)                           ku   Anl JaAie CZ)
(et awit Pim)                                         (at         197u0 prir)
1975      1          I6 19S    199                          1975.60   1900-05  1965.6
EjU                                   MO       100.0     100.0     10.                              5.8      110        5.1
P-rm7A                               62.7      44.8      46.2      44.5                            Ll        8.6       4.6
.oifacba./b                          37.3      55.2      518       555                            18.2 /a   23.2       5.8
i                                     100.0     100M0     100.0     1i.                            -1.4      -L7         9.4
Food md     Co  Cb                   9.8       1LI       15.7      13.3                           17.5     -4.5        6.4
Pe_o                                 25.4      44.4       8.5       6.1                            463      -7.3        .2
.Addiw -d !pdlpt                     26.5      15.4      21L8      33.0                          -7.5       -3.4      1L9
m33       29.1      47.0      47.6                          -1.9       -3.1       9.8
R     iE 1W  udi            Sum iE trode uLhU            umf trd uLti cwic1
loAnda CnrtrI  (Z)             vRe1qdsg Cmim  (2)           snp.u oalqmr  (2)
Amrctim Of TI                      1975     1960    1963          1975     193    19S3         1975     194    VS3
rp-D                             60.2     57.3    623          d1.5      2L5    21.8          0.       LI       2.2
IzMa                             67.3     46.6    38.5          8.7      16.0    17.4        13.2     14.1    19.3
/a 1,A Ure pdnd 1961-1998, Pdmzy Pnca   ale -proed jp. a.b pi. in m.
hb Fw tepeiodS 1975.1960, MIfacUESn nln.E otWr  9=b6
/d      ct  *a qlt  prt jac-I   am adou &tW _ folio:
Sq*am   projuctl wre Adle for t        - qrialoifm  emditi-  cuffee... #p. ap   pro&Kga. ad csin-w-n  _ for irm ame  d
urnfitg .  pdruMU.d, ad oa  gode. Prm  frr qoi1tiaml m                        r-e t flc 0 prjectr. pm23e 'hmiae   m    la In  d.1nOl el m Ias
qecal ma be el.tivel7y  rdt. uItu  affee. w4w. ad am   grudzg at In thm 3 per yer for mmt f der pedl and  oal    mal gOmiwg at 52 bsti
Ilfcouted aporm -m we        tcd -lI  In 1965 ad lame b           Aen  5-7Z pF  yew be   9e 1966690. a Am  aderate tnhm Ur de cEf the
Jae 1970s ad ewrly 1991m-   |terofnad  tOh  ddih mania of |Am1V=l-Wmmf ad hu                I - m         tD aol  Ur gaith of infmcbmd
proulaCm  -dur dUn  aslnwal         dlttIi. 1Ams for .mprimy afttEm  ate an e _d to foll  the taeartiarn prim Iinex (X).
AEtar 1965 ai Impoct   #      graVa ept petolaa   m  aonrnly d._irAd. Ccwtu if food am adu  oo.               goo  In 1U-1- t griad ln
private mDtiu; a.tala -d  ca1  tcI  a as OW gmpth; fertUlza. as jim1bul                    grwuth; .Ua  Intermd1t   o. a. tD IAtrfaI
poUt; _dcqairaod, to find Inwinr- 7hu gradt in dBIc oil amaqptim Is a (mctiEm of O  gUt. Dtic oil pro&mdtm Ia n                               aes to
nc      from 534AOO tpdn In I6  o 60,000 ipd In 196D _mlnuhi at dot intl 11rnl 1990W OWIA Iqot  m   oaid - a _* mL
ie i      pt piem   e for food. tlrnr Inten_die x pb ad qdtdI gudm   muthU IwE1-or ibmit 62 Aper p            r. 1mtal pricn  w gUth
Das autb4 ad -nemi ptime IA  - A-d-d Ilince unitUe ISd I  d fertUlaar piI,  ldth the potch pim I    - idis iAe                           me thU   Uhe
IlAL
April 30. 19B5



- 54-                                                                   aim:l
1ALAWt 0  PAI3Uh. WhIM. CAPITA AMS D
(015  mUl ves at tner t Prim.)
f.ltiei          1329.7 miL11e (Md-1963)
CI ta  O0nam   ISI.59   (3193)
1975      19D Lo         l       3962       19613      396 Id    I9S         10Z         61         3          396 m      390
let ta n  of cGo. nd aries.           -4W702    -12.544    -11.192    -14.747     -4.250         482    -3.41      - -1.589    -3293        -719       -1al        -iio
Ewa ser eas_                         5.070     20.13:    2.293       20.1757    259         27.00      20. me     30, 10l    34.1376    3,919      44,5"       53120
bon  SC GaS.                        1.210      2955       22.091     1.9395      13.429     13.937     35.,25     17,50      ao,&s.    23,447      21,43       32.Z2
let lanai Isre,                     -1.,M       4,023     4,5331   -33,935       10.313    -20.85f    -12.021    -30.27    -133133   -31.500    -133,53       -12.19
(.1 c k  taret p.rat              (2.042)    (0.321)    (7,906     (6 ,S3  )    (6.673)    (9 352)  (ID.5)    (9.3123    (9,11U)   (30.005)   (36,09)   (30o.101)
- IIL T deb)
Nat ta-lanai Sar ic:.*              -3.429     -3.120     -2."3      -,559      -2.407    -3,734       -3.003     -5,320     -,040      -4,.55     -,723    -6,92
Eat Tr_fer                                33        123        2n         -40         30N        m3           0          0          0          0          0          0
Crnalt Acent talce                    .405      -37.455    -11,004     e4,757      -4.,24        G5      -3,413      . ,59     -3.I93       -7"9        -m8l       -750
kesetiieaa M     e-K.  st                592      1.112    1.35           992         GM       1.041        75Z         02        610      1.76        3.260      1.442
ALLT lasa (set)                        4.630      0.493      5,050       7,4"       1,523      5,02 a729             2746       4.237      4.197      I,339      5, 33
tea Dtahr                           (0752)   (11,313)  (16,0453  (34.9)   (30,903)   (36i,55)   (1050)   (I3M50             (26,931)   (13.947)   (20.501)  (20.432)
1    laatia (35)    (0,20)   (1,3953    (7.40)    C3.579)ff (20,240)  (3L1,13)   (34,2311                                  (13.100)  (314.70)   (31,66e)  (31.0935
1iratlias lam  Ar-sad COe              -39         -27       -921       -594         323        S03          0     -3.400     -3.60      -2.400      -,0o0      -3,04
Otar Cwitat (iacldItg ar
ad .as.ta)                             '73     3,442      2.sn      2.700      -."91      -4.115       -320        202       -153     -3.303      -13474     -1.33
O.eusisa l ea re   C- tadiedna
Iea-e)                               1.22       3,389       -09       4.255          24    -702          -500       -701       -951       -993     -1334      -3.,59
Iteratle_l Wann  1.                    5,739      0.92      1.S05      3.50        5.757     0.0476     30.970     21.737     12368      33.050     1S.024      34,020
Id fblc  Salad)                         5       1.143        907         6S         207       -          -          -          -          -          -          -
tacecs  ra ta  at  I7.rrc. (00123          3,3        3.0        3.3        13.0       233         6.5        0          0.0        5.0        533         4*9        40.
-sesl Corit1 a   Dobt
ia fib*t.                              0.912     11.311    130,05      14."s       10.902     35,5       10.543    130,500     35,139      18.947    20.50       20,432
ofririal. Cratia                      -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -
ceasa 1ami 1ae                         102         19         39         350          4         70         74         l0                     t          10          7
*AC                                   07        13          137        50           3         a0         00         57         J3         10          4           3
oPrC                                -          -          -          -              I         15          9          5          I          0           0          0
,L -1                                                                                                             -          -          - _                   -
Onr                                   35          3          2                                 3          5          8          9          5           0          
Ne-Ce mstl   lanr                    0.60      31.239    13.020       34.,05     30.595     35,501     36,0 7      01.0      3 5,60     1692        2019       20.42n
Offieil t t Credits                   11        613 432    655        b42       1.0"       5,307      1. Be      1.335      3. 19      I.09       1.000      3.000
1n5                                  250        343        38         622      13 204      1.294      3.,03      3,390      1. 448     303       1,540      1.5317
thatr PZttlarerl                     119        in          190        331        217        20         297        274        276        25           09        270
Mrtet                              0.330     30,223     34,542    133001       5.375      32,137     11.33, 193762         15970      30.053     17.978     17,318
tsal 0,b0
Debt O.rt.dls  ad    brsWt.d        23.441      0.4       04.6,0      73X034     19,50 S"     ,015     92 343     95,090     9.9327    103.524    305.403    114,002
bUicNblicl  C_r_atrAd             33,64     9 39,594     4.53      4.9911     55,005     09.357      70 ,40     52,035     90,148     97.425    104,547    111.339
Perive I--s _aat-d                 9.592     26.05      39,72      23,33      21.512      is922e     15,925     12.4Y2      9,1n9      40 .       2,816      7 5003
siabbrsa  Debt                      X3,703    1336025      32,4       34.322    13.597      13.2,7     33.20    310,71        9.997      9.4I      9.420      9.471
tllt  dtabhcatftat  jqe.
dl.b .r._a.                 3,5 3S       2        2.4        Al2.       11.1        6.9        9.17        .3        7W6        7_9        7.4       71.
1553  Dretal DOD                         4.17       37         3,0        S1          4,0        52 s.0               60,         7.2        7.5        7,0        7,6
13D dbt ar."cltacal debt Sete            LS         2. 1        2 1       2.5         4,2        1, 0           I      4*5        5,0        0.3        6,5        7,4
Debt SBerie
Total S.rvIe rFaymt lb               3,070     23,303      15.333     34,125     113206     20,975    Z2.975      24.359     253251     25.455     20,438     20,490
stea-t                             I .4,      0,321      7.93D      9,341       7,o72     10,139     32l.a7     10.275     3o0 Sa     10.735     10.794     11,403
Pa,sal. a.   tCt. eCWS)                 30.6       50.1        00.0      72.1        00.0       72.3       90.0 o     75.3       68.9       600.9      554        453
A*_r Zetr-r   Rat -  Ba
Careatad L_    (Z) /c                     57        12.17      1351        IL7        11.4        1.9       13I0        9.9        9.9        9.7        9.3        9.5
Ofcale                                   5,         9.3       3   0.      30.10      30,5       _* .a.     a..        va          na a.-                a..       a..
tvtSmite                                 &.9       33.0         .         33,3       31.4       v.a.       -_.        a...        ...       _.*.          .       a...
teA_-     MacSty at  s.
Cereted tm   (ers) le                     9.0       9*7         9.7        10.9        9D3        9.0       10,3       31.0       11.6       11.5        11,5       11.5
Oftiel                                   2s1.4      M I7       32.0       13.7       12.'       ,          ma         _a         sa           a          a        v_
Pr iva. S_er ..0.9                                  6.9        9,0       10.2         5.. .      .a.         .         ..         .. ...               a...        .a.
ha S cd Debt Oatetasdins
tWeaslr 2962
Interlty Stcs5 tr  r PUblic Dot rttatnig
Im-treit. dhe  Id"1, 5 yearn                                  59.
Wtalsttse d i.e tOle 30 yasta                                 91,
lateratt St-at-ar  af Debt  atatrasig
Isterret de  itha  the ftrst yer                             n.a
/a  Des- me  tla_s geld ad d-llar valsatia adJ_t_.
&  lt e t and   1titlc   - -dl- aS Rag tre debt ple  Inte reet ,v a,rt-te   dbt.
Is   bllc Dtbt _1i  far 3975.
,d  Ire ialey.
/w 1913. ta awttI aatista la    aachdaliag itt. a,ant.  let ether y_ea. the mtrd   1.  *at th- principl  that -amd b. _ uitbmt rasthadlag.
Plt -e avatlabla.                                                                                                                                   2. I-39



- 35 -
ANN   II
Page 1 of 3
THEI STATUS C  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SIM4ARY STA7EHENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan 1   Year           Borrower                  Purpose        CancelLations  bursed
(USS Mlions)
Seventy two loans fully disbursed                                   3,107.7
1195     1976  Brazil                          Rural Developmeat       12.0        1.3
1317     1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry           83.G       25.9
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       42.0        1.4
1452     1977  Brazil                          Education               372.        7.1
1488     1977  Brazil                          Rural Development       11.0        2.3
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacso     Sewerage               110.0       57.5
1537     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development       24.0       13.2
1538     1978 ELETROBRAS                       Power                  130.0       15.8
1557     1978  Brazil                          Roads                  114.0       17.3
1568     1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension       100.0       16.4
1589     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development       37.0       15.0
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Sites and Services      93.0         .6
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Babitacao     Water and Sewerage    100.0        13.2
1714     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development       26.0       16.3
1720     1979  Brazil                          Urban Development       70.0       26.6
1721     1979  COPEL                           Power                  109.0       26.7
1728     1979  Brazil                          Rural Developent        50.0       22.5
1729     1979  Brazil                          Irrigation              28.0        4.7
1730-5   1979  Brazil                          Roads                  110.0       25.7
1822-5   1980  Brazil/X=DE                     Pollution Control       34.0       30.4
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply            130.0        4.3
1824     1980  CEEE                            Power                  L1. 0       73.2
1839     1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport        159.0       37.9
1850     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           1-1.0       32.9
1867     1980  Brazil                          Education               32.0       18.1
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       63.0       51.5
1895     1980 ELETROSUL                        Power                  125.0       87.9
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development       56.0       23.9
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                   54.0       43.4
1965     1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport         90.0       57.0
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           180.0      108.0
1989     1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Development  250.0         87.0
2015     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             29.0       16.6
2016     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             60.0       17.9
2060     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture             67.0       31.4



-36 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STArTEWNr OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1985)
mount less Undis-
Loan D  Year            Borrower                   Purpase      Cncellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
2061     1982 Brazil                           Health                 13.0       6.0
2062     1982 Brazll                          Highways              240.0       63.7
2116     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4      15.1
2138     1982 ELETROBRAS                      Power                  182.7     146.4
2163     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4      18.6
2170     1982 Brazil                          Urban Development    123.9       105.0
2177     1982 Brazil                           Rural Development      42.7      31.7
2193     1982 Brazil                          Urban Development       8.9        4.8
2196     1982 CVRD                             Iron Ore              304.5     117.2
2224     1982 Brazil                           Feeder Roade          154.0     129.0
2225     1982 BNDES                            Developmnt Badking   220.0        9.5
2249     1983 Bauco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply           302.3      210.0
2268     1983 Brazil                           Agro-Industries      400.0      374.0
2269     1983 Brazil                           Rural Development      67.8      60.0
2343     1983 Brazil                           Urban Development      52.7      48.1
2347     1983 Brazil                          Export Development   352.0         1.4
2348     1983 Brazil                           Agriculture           303.0       6.0
2353     1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            65.2      61.0
1729-1   1983 Brazil                          Agriculture              7.7       7.7
2060-1   1983 Brazil                          Agriculture             22.8      22.7
2364     1983 Eletrobras                       Pbwer                250.6      227.5
2365     1983 Eletrobras                      Power                 222.8      190.5
2366     1983 Brazil                           Education              20.0      17.4
2412     1984 Brazil                          Eeucation              40.0       36.9
2446     1984 Brazil                           Federal Highways      210.0     189.7
2447/1  1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health                 55.5       55.5
2448/T   1984 State of Sao Paulo              Health Studies           2.0       2.0
24887r   1985 Brazil                          Development Baking   300.0        M0.0
2489TF  1985 Brazil                            Education              72.0      72.0
Total                                               9,866.7 /2
Of which has been repatd to the Bark                1,734.8
Total now outstanding                               8,131.9
Amotmt sold                             45.8
Of which has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                             8,131.9
Total undisbursed                                             3,560.3
1I Not yet effective.
7T2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all BarIDJAk financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 37-                                             AN.  n
1b 3 of 3
IL  S Wmm Wr DC Iw XS    d tlk    31, Lim)
FIEMi                                                                                                                t   Ifn 02t tm laie
VWr                                   O b 11    aor                              a df b ma                     lorA    4qL        htOl
197                Mon  do D11 Cg. de  uatldhdo                               UMuIL Iqulii                         2_t       -       2.00
1956               OQkmft, S. A.  _aaa *a 1                                   Up at td %Pr                         2L;2l     -       L12
1905               D.1. L FLh        do I,. L AAs 1*hLv 1                                                          0.45      -       0AS
IffS               VlwU-Owslud do lJ4 SL A. - lnouU1 a tzLo                   1mr  eclh                            L45       -       2.45
1#9        S         =dda 61uti de COnu Iila_d, S. A.                                                              1.3       -       1.20
Iff9               O a  Odm. L A                                                                                  4Ip  6.00  -      4.00
1966/19u/972       Am WUn, SL A.                                              Sant                                 LOD      1.3      9.93
1199l%6            bpul a Calulme Choulowe, S. A.                             Sp ad    r               *3.76                3.41     7.19
137/1972           Ultfatl, S. A. - lmtda a CdD  de F.xtji mm- F..t1iSmws                                         Lan       3.03    11.25
1939       bctaqidm Ldo, S. A.                                                btCcwmas                            50        2.1      L36
1970       P        _basUm, S. A. lutra a * rdD                               1odadoa1b                            5.D      2-88     L30
1971                Odt  SL A. iImul a Codo                                   lbtr_dmIoa                          4. bD      .44 
1971                Ao Cook - Ca     de ohuamdoSal                            SUp                                  4*190     -       4.9D
1972/1975/1961   QhiIa deoC6ao tbdml do                                       Clo  r                             19L14      6.70   17SC
19734/877/1/58UM    (.xpwddn 51d.m & Qmuum   -                                51UA  Stud                          76.97    1SD    5L24
1973               Opdtbl  1abmt Ihml1p  w FlJd - HEA                         C1tmL lhrlt UwJqimt                  5.0       -       5.00
19n31976/19M1      Shpi do de Dw_.l_mw. d- uas 11e1ls - OMW. S. A.  Idul Ild  ad Sfdi                             S=        8.74    9;74
1974               In&==Iaa Vllkm  S. A.                                     Iammu aad         Sal B*upaw        LOO       -       6.00
1974               Feback de Taddo Tht0npm  S. AL                             TmIim                               31.00      -      31.00
1975/1979          <Aplw  Catcon IrAm   I   1.                                abn    Ek                           b 6.1     1.!9     7.37
1975               Omeu  S       . S. A. L                                         dmmla                          10_00      -       0.00
197b               SFatlu  h*ioudI - Til do Ib,  ,t. S. A.                     imiu                                6.45     1.00     7.45
1976196)           T1an   S.A. - Tedd ICtdz I     do 1 xdo                    Ta                                  16.2D      -      16.2
1977               DS S. A. PruwXw  lh oW                                     km an Aladum (hw                    20.0       -      20.00
1977                llnoao  lUo do Fbare S. A.                                 W,ig                               15.00      -      10W
1978        5        minZ Slguqla S. A.                                       c_. and Sg                          L33       3.10    IL38
1979               Volw do ILmd1  z  a Vlamn. S. A.                           "Mr   _A                            W0.0      5.727    6S.27
196D               FudiE do  mbsea S. A. -%Mm                                 Rdtdl Canona                        zO         -        .0
1903       1        D    do Su SIA - Pm     - _plaalatm.  &aWtda
a Cindo de Olina                                       Ran-la                               3.50 Q    LW0    4.50
190D               Ailarl I:dustdm de saw S. A. - vIE                         I= &ad s mil                         5.0       -       5.00
1903               FMI - (hq.ddn Ikimtdal de Rnuiprqan                       COudmi aad Fedadm1e                  15.00     2.00    170aD
19ID               thocMdI   Cama S. A.                                       O _mdm  ad   tb ndadms               -        O.       0.25
198)               Sclcsw 6ma OdAm e tMam1 S/A                                Felraafl                            3SCO    blo0    41.0D
190D               Ibi1 1 _ &UpdaI                                            Chmla and emdmdadm                  43.       5.00D    a.
196                basolpr                                                      w a|I (ia klitA                    -        2.50     LD50
1961               cmp_  kmus  de 8          -    Wqa dB - a4E                Food ai fad PtohW                    5S       3DD      LSD
1        Wl  ao                                                              audizs aid Batrdima3                46.0      4.00    50.00
196g                osto CAE                                                        anr   C     F/cmtuuim  tateal  40.00    5.00   45.0
1931Z                 Iwo   S. A.                                             2g  cIa1 -l,-                       30.00     0.45    30.45
196                Os   p         dL                                             a        4lozpg-  MO  W  chiial  I i  -     .03      m3
im                Adla   f1wim                                                Ibid ad Food Flom.sq                13.00     -       13.00
196                GQdda  ;  do Amp    EA)                                     A    ll                            6.10      -        6L10
190                FM -  p1 de Tuuc  S.&                                      MpAbP 4    rduC.                    60.O0     5.17    6617
M                      AA.                                                    Fd ai  ad IradAm                    3.0       L50      5.50
91                 cum                                                        C     a; ad C        lktad          35.0      -       35.0
1961                Qdota h3-qdd_   IbduMi Qdmis aod                                      b        _adm1a         20.00     4.00    2OD
19S5               QAdm do Eds                                                CImi. ai lbrdudm1a                   2.75     LD       455
T.1a Gws                                                                            31.97      96.4'9 1.030.I
Lo  Ehulwdnm, hacindoun 31            ad SLin                                       612L79  _15.13   6769
Tma     lt     bY HOdd by VC                            2?111                                  6131   35L4.9
tmLU                                                                                 71-39     156    8.95
Apdl. L% I6



- 38 -                       AANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Elements
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:  Approximately 12 months
(b)  Project Prepared By:             INCRA with Bank assistance
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank: March 1983
(d)  Appraisal Mission:               Preliminary:  June/July 1984
Final      : Oct./Nov. 1984
(e)  Negotiations:                    January 1985
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:  September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were received during negotiations from the Borrower
that it shall take and cause each of the project states to take alu actions
necessary to acquire land in a timely wanner to meet the land distribution
targets defined in the operational agreements signed between INCRA, SUDENE
and each of those states (para. 62).
Assurances were received during negotiations from the Borrower
and INCRA that SUDENE or INCRA would not: (i) modify without Bank
agreement any provisions of the operational agreements with the seven
project states where Bank funds would be disbursed (Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao,
Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe); and (ii) modify the
operational agreements with the other three project states (Alagoas, Minas
Gerais and Paraiba) in a way which would depart from the technical and
policy criteria and financial and institutional arrangements established
for the preceding seven states (para. 71).
Further assurances were received from INCRA that:
(i) beneficiaries of the land redistribution activities would be
charged the ful value of the land which they are allocated
(including improvements whica are specifically allocated to each
beneficiary), determined in accordance with criteria satisfactory
to the '-ank, under terms of payment providing for monetary



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
correction of the value of the land equal to the correction
prevailing for agricultural investment credit for small farmers
in the project area, an interest rate in line with those
prevailing for agricultural investment credit for small farmers
in the project area, and a repayment period of not less than 15
years (para. 62);
(ii) consultants would be employed according to the timetable
established in the operational agreements with the project states
to study OET management structures, staffing and methods;
promptly upon completion of the study, the conclusions and
recommendations of the study and the proposed plan of action to
put in effect such recovmndations would be sent to the Bank for
review and comment; and, promptly upon receipt of the Bank's
comments, implement the proposed plan of action (para. 68);
(iii) terms of reference for cadastre integration, legal and
socioeconomic studies would be presented to the Bank for review
not later than six months after loan signature; consultants to
carry out these studies would be employed not later than nine
months after loan signature; and, the conclusions and
recommendations of these studies would be furnished to the Bank
(para. 68);
(iv) the DI would receive the full assistance and cooperation from the
other INCRA directorates in the implementation of the project
(para. 69); and,
(v) it would furnish to the Bank, not later than 90 days after loan
signature, a proposal, satisfactory to the Bank, on the technical
and institutional issues related to the establishment of the
state cadastres, including the specifications of the equipment to
be utilized; and, not later than April 30, 1986, acquire this
equipment and have it installed by each of the project states
(para. 80).



% ;_        ~~NATIONAL LND ADAANISTRATION PROGRAM                    * 
n   -^ <       ~~~NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENvURE.!  
j {1 5 . * ~~VAROEMEW PROJECT                               BRAZIL
PARA    5                         YEAlt P.TGMMFI OPERTO.
F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ot  Am A frf
J wb 1^ f - . . Ocean .~~~
   e-   VB      r     A                   f;~~~~CE
\GOIA5 t .s X viS                             D_ _~~~Ak
.) >>_ e^e-~~~~~~o - .Yr 2 " *, -~~~~~~
rF  .  D.) ) -FF } ; ., * : ,, l A~~~~~~RI 
1--d)   z M IN 1S                  r         L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R
FmJ t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. o   _



- "~ L~.                                      BRAZIL
">- \                . NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM   :. ,
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE                      AZ .L
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                        BRAZIL
P  RA   i            5     |     Eltv NDuc^io   rEnO  ,             . 0_.  << '   . (/,
* YEARLY LAND ADJUDICATION OPERATIONS
South  America
-t wt   (', ,                       W.1s,fus.co
.S  ->   ,2}  t           (;        )^                 ~~~~~~~~Atlantic
11-0~~~~~~~~rNi _                              Ocean
I- ~~   *\.~;                            A //-I
(                         '    ' 3 ]i: \ j:          RNMB} ui* ll 
G 01 A 5  (;  5-7   |   t                      l~~~~~~~~~~~~~0w-  P-jed B-#y
"> f?   '    P<,Y  3eo
I)  )~           / f                                                      Atlantic o    on und-:
F. D .  ruc , ...:
f       -*-'t                                                 s        c_ R -
__   _~~~~~~ \s   0Z                      I                    _   5~~~~~~~~~O C
'--, _ I- NSINAS                     GERAIS
o                      Land adjudicati*oo   200  3on ,OIS
.'-~*c~. ~~_   J  z   *   0 l  2e0 MM



