Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18729-CE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.0 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
YEAR 2000 EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
December 28, 1998
Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 22, 1998)
Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupees
Rs 68.2 = US$ I
App]icable SDR exchange rate is:
US$ 1.38621 = I SDR
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Sri Lanka: January I to December 3 1
Central Bank of Sri Lanka: January I to December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWDR          Average Weighted Deposit Rate
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBSL          Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CEB           Ceylon Electricity Board
CINTEC        Council of Information Technology
DCS           Department of Census and Statistics
DFIs          Development Finance Institutes
DO            Development Objective
EPF           Employees Provident Fund
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ETF           Employee Trust Fund
FRR           Fiiiancial Rate of Return
GOSL          Government of Sri Lanka
IDA           International Development Association
IP            Implementation Progress
IRD           Inland Revenue Department
ITD           Information Technology Development
MOF           Ministry of Finance
PCU           Project Coordinating Unit
RRDB          Regional Rural Development Banik
SLIC          Sri Lanka Insurance Company
TA            Technical Assistance
Y2K           Year 2000
Vice President:                    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                  Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Manager:                    Marilou Uy
Task Leader:                       Shideh Hadian
Team Leader:                       Joseph Pernia



SRI LANKA
YEAR 2000 EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
A.    PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT  OBJECTIVE .................................................................. 2
A. 1. Project development objective .2
A.2. Key performance indicators .2
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT                                                                     .2
B. I. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project.                                                   2
B.2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .
B.3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                                            .5
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY                                                                      .8
C. 1. Project components                                                           .8
C.2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ........................................... 10
C.3. Benefits and target population .......................................................................                           11
C.4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................................................   11
Figure  1: Sri Lanka Y2K  Project Management .................................................................. 12
D.    PROJECT  RATIONALE .......................................................................                                      13
D. 1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ......................                       .............................  13
D.2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..............  13
D.3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ............................................................  14
D.4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...............................                          ..........................  14
D.5. Value added of Bank support in this project .................................................................. ....  14
E.    SUMMARY  PROJECT  ANALYSIS .......................................................................                              15
E. l.  Economic .......................................................................                                               15
E.2. Financial .......................................................................  15
E.3. Technical .......................................................................   15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Sri Lanka in November 1998. The
mission team members consisted of Mmes. Shideh Hadian (Task Leader, SASFP); Sriyani Hulugalle
(Industrial Economist, SACCO); Eva Lystad (Prin. Information Tech. Specialist, EMTTI); Julitta Rasiah
(Financial Analyst. SARFM); and Messrs. Jayantha De Mel (Procurement Specialist, SARFM); Bradford
Adams (Information Technology Specialist, EMTTI). Other members of the project team are Mr. Jose P.
Correia da Silva (Senior Counsel, LEGSA); Ms. Vimala Abraham (Sr. Disbursement Officer, LOAAS);
and Ms. Mary Agnes Evidente (Team Assistant, SASFP). The peer reviewers are Messrs. Howard Amer
(US Federal Reserve) and Andrew Hook (FSD).



Page No.
E.4. Institutional ...................................                                        15
E.5. Social ...................................                                               15
E.6. Environmental assessment ...................................                             15
E.7. Participatory approach ...................................                               16
F.  SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ...................................  16
F.1. Sustainability ...................................  16
F.2. Critical risks ...................................                                       1 7
F.3. Possible controversial aspects ...................................                       17
G.  MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ...................................  18
G. 1. Effectiveness conditions ...................................  1 8
G.2. Other ................................... 18
H.  READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ...................................                          18
I.  COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ...................................  18
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .20
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description .21
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .22
Annex 4.  Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .23
Annex 5. Financial Summary .23
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .24
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .28
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .29
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .30
Annex 7.  Project Processing Schedule.                                                        3 1
Annex 8.  Documents in the Project File .32
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits .33
Annex 10. Sri Lanka at a Glance .34
Annex  11. Social Data Sheet .36
Annex 12. Environmental Data Sheet .39
Annex 13.   A Strategic Approach to the Y2K Problem in the Sri Lanka Banking Sector .         40
(Prepared by the World Bank appraisal team; based on the best practices
available from reputable sources)
MAP: IBRD Number 27509



SRI LANKA
YEAR 2000 EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
SOUTH ASIA
Date: December 28, 1998                         Task Leader: Shideh Hadian
Country Director: Roberto Bentjerodt            Team Leader: Joseph Pemia
Sector Manager: Marilou Uy                      Sector: Finance and Private Sector Development
Project ID: LK-PE-63472                         Theme(s): Economic and Financial Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance (TA)    Poverty Targeted Intervention:  [ I  Yes  [xl No
Peer Reviewers:
Mr. Andrew Hook, FSD, World Bank
Mr. Howard Amer, US Federal Reserve
Project Financing
Data
[ ] Loan    [x] Credit       ] Grant       [  Guarantee       [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$ m): SDR 21.0 million / US$29.0 Million Equivalent
Proposed         IDA Credit
terms:
Grace period (years):      10 Years
Years to maturity:         40 Years
Commitment fee:            0.5%
Service charge:            0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank
loan:
Financing plan:
Source                                                Local            Foreign           Total
(US$ million)
Government                                             0.3               0.2               0.5
IBRD
IDA                                                    5.3              23.7              29.0
Other (Sponsors)                                       6.5               2.0               8.5
Total:                                                12.1              25.9               38.0
Borrower: Government of Sri Lanka
Guarantor:
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Finance and Planning; Central Bank of Sri Lanka
Estimated disbursements (FYIUS$M):
FY       FY99        FY00          FY01         FY02         FY03         FY04        FY05
Annual        7.3       20.3           1.4
Cumulative        7.3       27.6          29.0
Project implementation period: February 15, 1999 - June 30, 2001
Expected effectiveness date: February 15, 1999,    Expected closing date: June 30, 2001
Implementing agency: Ministry of Finance and Planning
Contact person: Mr. Faiz Mohideen, Director General
External Resource Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning
Address: Secretariat, Colombo 1, Sri Lanka
Tel: 94-1-434876          Fax: 94-1-447633               E-mail: not available
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
A.I. Project development objective:
To assist the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL), on an urgent basis, in its efforts to prevent possible
business disruption in the country's economic and financial sectors as a result of the Year 2000
(Y2K) problem. The project will focus on assisting the country's banking sector and selected critical
government agencies to adopt and implement a well defined contingency-based strategic plan for
Y2K compliance.
A.2. Key performance indicators:
The key performance indicators for this project would be: (i) the number of financial institutions
able to prevent disruption in their critical businesses and continue to operate without any major
problem after the year 2000; (ii) the estimated amount of damages avoided or minimized in the
financial and economic sectors; (iii) the number of critical government agencies to continue their
normnal operations; and (iv) the readiness and ability of critical sectors to be able to quickly recover
(measurable by the time period) from any possible system damage or business disruption after the
year 2000.
B: Strategic Context
B.:. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
Document number: CAS No. 15633-CE (May 21, 1996).
Date of latest CAS discussion: The last Country Assistance Strategy was discussed by the Board on
June 13, 1996. A new CAS is scheduled to be presented to the Board in January 1999.
The level of awareness of the Y2K problem was not high and certainly was not considered a priority
back in 1996. Therefore, the CAS No. 15633 did not discuss this issue and the need for emergency
assistance to the GOSL. However, the CAS has put great importance on the country's financial
sector development and its economic stability and also on IDA's continued assistance to further
promote and deepen the financial sector. The CAS also mentioned that IDA stands ready to help
should the government request assistance in the areas of finance and banking and macroeconomic
stability. In view of IDA's long standing sectoral policy, the South Asia Management fully supports
this project which is reflected in the current CAS. The Y2K projects would also get support from the
senior management Bank-wide. The July 20, 1998 memo from the Managing Directors indicates
that "while the Bank's effort should focus on the diagnosis and awareness, we should also be
prepared to respond promptly to borrower emergency requests for technical and financial assistance
with in-depth remediation assessment and action programs".
B.2. Main sector issues and government strategy:
Year 2000 Issues Defined - The Y2K problem has attracted increasing attention worldwide as the
passage into the new millennium approaches rapidly. The Y2K problem results from the fact that
most business application software programs written over past 20-25 years use only two digits to
specify the year, rather than four. The two-digit date code is automatically assigned to the 2Oe
century: as "99" proceeds to "00" on January 1, 2000, the computer will incorrectly understand the
date change as "1900", not "2000." These systems, unless changed or corrected, will cause failure in



Page 3
arithmetic, comparisons, sorting, and input/output to databases or files when manipulating date data.
Almost all computer-based systems which represent the year as a two-digit number will be adversely
affected by the arrival of the year 2000. In addition, the Y2K problem threatens to impact
"embedded systems", electronic hardware systems - including everything from fax machines and
elevators to telephone exchanges and power generators - that utilize date functions built into
microprocessor controls.
Starting in 2000, the computer systems will need to recognize the year 2000 and the beginning of the
21 st century. This requires urgent attention to correct the hardware and software to ensure that the
entire information systems are compliant with the century date change on the new millennium. The
bottom line is that, without proper attention, the consequences of the Y2K problem can be costly and
disruptive.
Areas of Vulnerability and Critical Sectors - The Y2K problem is very widespread, and could
have adverse economic consequences for countries and institutions that do not deal with it properly
and in time. It will impact every sort of computer system (personal computers, mainframe systems)
and most software programs. Although the priority areas vary from country to country, in general,
the most critical sectors in an economy are power generation, telecommunications, water, health,
finance, and transport.
Risk of the Y2K Problem for the Financial Sector - The financial sector is especially vulnerable to
Y2K computer problems and is potentially at high risk. Information technology touches almost
every aspect of the banking industry. The entire financial sector is dependent on dates for daily
ledgers, reports on the accounts, asset and liability management, and interest calculation for financial
statements. For many of the banking activities and financial instruments, such as loan servicing,
mortgages, deposit payments, and funding, date calculations play an instrumental role. The prospect
of data corruption resulting in miscalculations of the financial accounts threatens the entire banking
system. Lack of Y2K compliance means that any of these systems could misfunction, taking year
1900 instead of 2000.
There is an added risk in the sense that financial institutions have greater computerized interactions
with other institutions (data transfers among banks, the central bank, clearing houses, regulatory
agencies, financial markets, Society for Worldwide Inter-bank Financial Telecommunications
(SWIFT), and others) and many heavily rely on third party transaction processing and outsourced
services. Therefore, in the global financial markets noncompliance of one institution can create
problems in many others. While each institution may achieve Y2K compliance for its own system, it
must also make sure that it does not import corrupted or bugged data. This requires obtaining
verification that all sources of imported data are Y2K compliant and building data filters and data
bridges to guarantee that incoming data are bug-free. Financial service providers play a fundamental
role in the national economy and their functioning is vital for the economic stability of the country.
Therefore, the financial and banking communities must work together to ensure that their systems,
along with those of their service providers and customers, are Y2K compliant. In the case of Sri
Lanka, foreign investment plays a crucial role in the economy. The ability to maintain the desired
level of foreign investment depends heavily on sound and well functioning banking and financial
systems and the country's economic stability.
Government's Strategy and Actions to Address the Issues - Based on a Cabinet Memorandum of
May 7, 1998, a joint task force was formed to address the Y2K problems at the national level. It
comprises members from various key govemment and corporate institutions such as the Central
Bank, the Telecommunications Regulatory Commission, the Ceylon Electricity Board, the Treasury,



Page 4
the Airport Aviation Authority, the Ports Authority, as well as the private sector and information
technology vendors. In addition, most of them have set up Y2K units in their own organizations.
The services of these industries are considered most critical for the Sri Lank economy. Other areas
of concem are the two main revenue-generating public agencies, namely Sri Lanka Customs and the
Inland Revenue Department (IRD). These institutions have automated their operations in the past
few years and are considered highly vulnerable to the Y2K problem.
The Council of Information Technology (CINTEC) of Sri Lanka, the central body for all
infornation technology-related activities in the country, has been given the responsibility for
managing the Y2K problem in the country and chairs the national task force. The joint task force has
been very successful at raising awareness of the problem. The level of awareness and commitment
at the highest level is quite high in Sri Lanka. The task force was instructed by the President of Sri
Lanka, to submit a report to her on the country's Y2K status by December 16, 1998, and to formulate
a "National Plan" for Y2K remediation, covering all the critical sectors of the economy. In early
November 1998, the task force submitted a proposal for the InfoDev' grant which is intended to be
used for the preparation of a Y2K national plan. The 1999 budget proposal, whiich was announced
on November 6, 1998, includes an allocation for the millennium compliance and as an incentive to
ensure the economy's readiness. It proposes to allow a 100 percent write-off of import duties for
information technology purchases until March 31, 1999.
Central Bank's Actions - The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) recognized the potential threat
and high risk of the Y2K problem for the banking system and the national economy and has taken
the initiative to ensure that the operations of the banking system will continue uninterrupted. The
Central Bank created a task force to coordinate the banking sector Y2K problems. The Central
Bank's Bank Supervision Department started monitoring the Y2K project in the licensed commercial
and specialized banks in November 1997 and its Information Technology Department surveyed these
banks in March 1998. The results of these assessments reveal that the efforts of the banks, in
general, are not satisfactory and the progress of the Y2K project by individual banks is slow and not
acceptable to the CBSL. The Central Bank issued in early 1998 a "Year 2000 compliance standard"
that follows the compliance standards declared by the British Standard Institute. The Central Bank
formulated an action plan that outlines the steps the banks should take in order to be fully Y2K
compliant. In August 1998 the CBSL obtained the services of a consultant from the British Financial
Services Authority to do an independent assessment of the licensed banks' Y2K plans and to advise
the CBSL on the required corrective measures. The consultant's report covers the assessment of 30
financial institutions, including the two Development Finance Institutes (DFIs), foreign, domestic
commercial, and investment banks. The report identifies several areas for further work. It concludes
that many of the financial institutions have inadequate timeframe for dealing with the Y2K problem,
because many institutions lack proper planning to be able to fully comply by year 2000.
Commissioning such a consultancy substantially raised the banks' awareness level of the severity of
the Y2K problem. Many banks scaled up their efforts and mobilized more resources for this task
since the report was issued in August 1998.
After the release of the consultant's report, CBSL had a series of meetings with the banks and
decided to establish a line of credit to assist those banks that needed financial assistance for their
The Information for Development (InfoDev) program invites applications from national governments for
grant assistance with year 2000 problems. These grants have been made available to lnfoDev by the
Department for International Development, United Kingdom. There are two types of grants: (i) planning
grants of up to $100,000 to support development or improvement of national action plan for Y2K; and (ii)
implementation grants of up to $500,000 to support remediation, testing, and evaluation of targeted systems
as identified under Y2K national plan.



Page 5
Y2K projects. Financing assistance would motivate the banks to speed up their projects, and in
addition, it would give the CBSL the ability to keep a tight control over the project implementation
of the action program. This is of particular importance for the two large state-owned commercial
banks, which account for about 60 percent of the banking activities in the country.
Sri Lanka Financial Sector - In Sri Lanka, the financial sector comprises diverse and rather
sophisticated institutions. The banking system consists of two large state-owned commercial banks,
six domestic private banks, 18 foreign commercial bank branches; the National Savings Bank; 17
regional rural development banks; and a state mortgage bank. There are two Development Finance
Institutions (DFIs) that specialize in term lending and 24 finance companies that provide lease
financing and installment credit. There are also 5 leasing companies, 10 merchant banks and 7
venture capital companies. Contractual savings are accounted for mainly by the two government-
sponsored provident funds for private sector employees, the Employees' Provident Fund and the
Employees' Trust Fund, and seven insurance companies.
B.3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The issues of the Y2K problem and its impact on the economic and financial activities were
explained in Section B. Almost any industry or enterprise that uses computers of any sort is subject
to the millennium bug and could be harmed without proper remediation action. Based on the
information provided by CINTEC, the computer population consists of about 20 mainframe
computers, about 400 mini-computer systems, and over 150,000 personal computers. While the
level of automation in Sri Lanka is lower than that in many other countries, operations of many
critical sectors, public administrations, and private sector organizations depend on the computers,
many of which were purchased in the 1970s and 1980s.
According to the national task force, the key sectors that are likely to be affected by this problem are
banking and finance, telecommunications, power and electricity, seaports, public administration,
travel and transport, healthcare, and immigration and emigration. Many of these sectors are
monopoly service providers for which there are no alternatives in case of their failure. While most
institutions and industries in Sri Lanka have already taken some actions to prepare for the Y2K
problem, many have failed to adopt a careful contingency-based plan that would ensure their core
business continuity in the event of unprecedented failures.
The task force has identified four main constraints in finding solutions to the Y2K problem and
taking fast remedial actions. First, institutions lack adequate financial resources. Second, they face
shortages in support services by vendors. Third, they have difficulty in recruiting IT professionals
for the public agencies because of low wages in the public sector. Fourth, many of the institutions
have ineffective or inadequate program management.
The project will address the Y2K problem for the banking sector and selected critical government
entities that have computerized operations and could potentially be subject to millennium bug. As
the millennium approaches, the institutions' demand for resources, programmers, equipment, and
project managers will increase; it may increase even more after year 2000. The complexity of
remediation, inherent uncertainty in many areas, unavailability of careful and in-depth assessments
of the affected systems in several government sectors, limited local capacity in many institutions,
limited resources, and the uniqueness and emergency nature of the problem indeed call for both the
World Bank and the Government to allow some flexibility in the scope and design of the
project and its implementation.



Page 6
The project will focus on financial sector and critical government agencies.
1.   Financial sector - CBSL will take the lead to ensure the functioning of the banks and the
financial health of the country.
II.   Selected critical government agencies: - The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will take the lead
to ensure Y2K compliance of these institutions. Each institution or the regulatory body (if
applicable) is responsible for planning its Y2K project and ensuring its systems compliance.
However, the MOF will assist them with administrative matters and project financing, if there
will be a need for financial and/or technical assistance from the proceeds of this project. The
scope of the MOF's efforts will initially include the Inland Revenue Department, Sri Lanka
Customs, Department of Census and Statistics, Ceylon Electricity Board, Telecommunication
Regulatory Commission, and public sector insurance companies including the Sri Lanka
Insurance Company(SLIC). The needs of these agencies have been identified and assessed.
In the event that other agencies under other ministries should seek assistance for Y2K
remediation, supervisory responsibility will fall under the coordination unit established (see
section C4) in the MOF. The Y2K remediation financing, however, should be arranged from
the respective ministries.
Issues Addressed in the Banking Sector - There is a high degree of leadership and commitment
and firm understanding of the problem on the part of the governor of CBSL and his staff in the Bank
Supervision and IT departments. Also the domestic commercial banks, including the two state-
owned banks, have given relatively high priority to the Y2K project for which the remediation plan
was started. However, the appraisal team identified the following weaknesses which could put the
banking sector at the high risk if proper and urgent actions are not taken.
(a)  Banks in general underestimate the resources, expertise, and most of all the time required to
implement and test the systems for Y2K readiness.
(b)  In some banks, Y2K remediation is seen as an opportunity to upgrade entire technology
systems. While it may make a business sense, this approach places even greater demands on
available resources and may compromise the immediate goal of Y2K compliance.
(c)  The Y2K plans of the two large state owned commercial banks do not seem to be adequate.
Moreover, both institutions lack well-defined and sufficient Y2K contingency plans.
(d)  Many banks have lost their critical IT professionals to other countries as demand for this
expertise has risen in the recent past. The risk of losing staff is likely to increase in 1999
because the demand for IT staff with banking expertise will increase worldwide.
(e)  Generally, the banks' IT staff are overconfident about solving their Y2K problems. This
overconfidence has resulted in inadequate contingency planning. In addition, some financial
institutions experience lack of dialogue and low communications between the IT unit and
higher level management. This situation has caused insufficient management attention on and
resource allocation for Y2K issues. Halfway commitment can be expensive. In some cases
even the top managers are concerned that the Y2K plans drafted by their staff do not reflect the
magnitude of the required resources.
(f)  Many banks have not done a credit risk assessment of the Y2K readiness of their corporate
clients.
(g)  Some banks have decided to install new systems instead of upgrading the existing systems for
Y2K. Due to the time required to implement a new system and have it tested and in operation,
banks may well have difficulty completing the task before 2000.
The Central Bank is responsible for protecting the health and soundness of the banking system and
the customers' assets. Given the magnitude and complexity of the problem, the CBSL is in an ideal



Page 7
position to provide leadership for this effort. An active and strong Y2K team in the CBSL would
greatly facilitate the implementation process (see section C.4 for details on institutional
arrangement). In addition, the CBSL can significantly contribute to the efforts of the banking sector
by undertaking the following initiatives.
*  Organize a Y2K workshop for high level management and IT staff in the banks, and encourage
greater commitment and involvement in this vital issue on the part of bank management.
*  Closely work with each bank and develop a special supervision program for the two large state-
owned commercial banks. This supervision program could be in the forn of a special support
program, a dedicated consultant or full-time experts from Central Bank's IT and Supervision
Departments.
In turn, the banks, who are responsible for their own Y2K remediation, slhould cooperate in this
collective efforts by implementing the following initiatives.
*  Banks need to acknowledge the complexity of the Y2K issue. They should have a more realistic
and well-defined remediation plan with timetables for action. They should assess the financial
requirements for their plan and include a contingency provision. They slhould mobilize adequate
resources and allocate these resources effectively for Y2K activities. They also need to plan for
adequate time and financial resources for systems upgrading and, more importantly, for testing
the systems. Testing needs to be conducted internally to assure proper functionin1g of the
hardware and software, and externally to ensure proper interaction with service providers,
counterparties, and customers. The degree of dependency on outside services requires that banks
have a well-defined contingency plan in place by January 1999.
*  Banks should take advantage of the resources provided by the CBSL and ask for financial and
technical assistance immediately, if needed.
*  While taking this opportunity to pursue a long-term IT strategy, banks should give priority to the
immediate objective of Y2K compliance, to ensure continuity in their critical business functions.
*  Banks need to be more proactive in assessing the possible risk associated with their corporate
clients, at least for their largest clients with high exposure. CBSL can ask eaclh bank to do this.
Issues Addressed in the Public Sector Organizations - The Y2K issue is also significant in other
sectors, many of which are monopoly service providers in the country. The risk associated with the
Y2K problem cuts across all the sectors that are either partly or mostly computerized. Many of the
weaknesses for the banking sector also apply to other institutions. The World Bank's Y2K appraisal
team strongly recommends that other ministries or regulatory authorities for all the critical sectors
take the urgent and necessary steps for Y2K compliance.
The telecommunications sector includes the most critical and important service providers for the
banks and the financial sector, followed by the electricity. The Telecommunications Regulatory
Commission (TRC) only started to look into the Y2K problem in February 1998. The commission
has completed the most basic review of operators' Y2K compliance. It has requested no materials to
validate the operators' plans, and therefore does not have adequate information about the status of
their compliance.
TRC indicated that it does not have the expertise, adequate staff, or finances to effectively monitor
the operators. It requested IDA technical assistance for Y2K planning and supervision. TRC needs
to quickly scale up its activities to follow up with its survey and its supervision of the operators. It
should use its regulatory power to enforce compliance and to request that operators prepare well-
defined contingency plans. TRC needs to mobilize additional temporary local IT professionals to



Page 8
assist it in evaluating and closely monitoring the operators. The TRC indicated that it needs an
international expert to assist with evaluating and testing the main telecommunications line providers.
For these activities, the appraisal mission recommended that the commission use the proceeds of the
ongoing IDA TA project (Credit 2837-CE). The project closing date is December 31. 1999, which
should give the commission plenty of time for utilization. Thus, TRC need not be included under
this proposed project.
The Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) is another critical agency that requires urgenit attention. It
requires technical and independent expertise, early systems testing, and a well-defined contingenicy
plan, in order to ensure its readiness in Year 2000.
The Inland Revenue Department (IRD) is of utmost importance to the MOF because of its revenue
generating role. Although it is aware of the Y2K problem, the department is entirely unprepared for
Y2K remediation due to inadequate technical expertise and financial resources. IRD has approached
MOF for financial and technical assistance. It has no documented plan or invelitory, and no
contingency plan. Its target date for completing these tasks is June 1999, choseni arbitrarily without
an assessment of needs or a projection of resources that will be required. IRD started the process for
purchasing the required equipment; however, tender for hardware and system software is still
pending. IRD cannot hire additional IT professionals because the government pay scale is lower
than what the market pays for skilled IT labor.
Urgent technical and financial assistance needs to be provided to IRD so that it can start preparing its
Y2K remediation and contingency plans. This agency requires close supervision of the MOF.
The Sri Lanka Customs has managed, with assistance from UNCTAD, to upgrade its declaration
systems to Asycuda ++ in the areas of exports and bonding. It has not yet upgraded the imports
(Long Room) and air cargo, which presently operate with the non-compliant Asycuda+. The
Customs is fully confident that it will get technical support from UNCTAD for upgrading and
testing. However, it has a tight implementation timetable and demand for UNCTAD's services may
increase substantially in particular because those countries (over 85) whicih are using the same
system will have to rely on UNCTAD for their Y2K upgrades. Despite the tight implementation
plan, Customs does not seem to have a reasonable contingency plan. The Customs has allocated
sufficient funds for their Y2K plan, but could benefit from close monitoring and technical assistance
from MOF.
The GOSL consider the Department of Census and Statistics(DCS) somewhat critical for their role
and functions in producing specific quarterly and annual statistics (such as labor force quarterly data,
child activity services, national accounts, etc.). The DCS does not have a thorough plan for their
Y2K remediation needs. It only contacted its supplier of the mainframe for systems upgrading.
DCS's concern was long delay in getting quotation from the vendor. DCS has been in a dialogue
with MOF to arrange financing for its Y2K remediation.
C: Project Description Summary
C.1. Project components:
At the request of the GOSL, the proposed IDA credit would be in the amount of US$29.0 million
equivalent. The amount the MOF requires will partially finance the cost of experts and equipment



Page 9
for banking sector and some critical govemment agencies. The proceeds of this loan are considered
a supplement to the 1999 budget allocated for the Y2K remediation in the country.2 Considering the
size of the concerned government institutions and the level of their computerization, the cost for
upgrading and remediation projects on average is approximately US$1.5 million per institution.
With the MOF focusing on about five agencies, the allocated amount for the public agencies should
cover the bulk of the cost. The CBSL has done a preliminary needs assessment for the banks (see
Annex 3).
The proposed project has two main components: the financial sector component and the government
agencies component (see table 1).
I. Financial Sector Component - The total allocation for this component is US$2 1.0 million
equivalent which will be utilized by the CBSL as follows.
I (a) - A Credit Component of US$20.0 million will be used for onlending, through the CBSL, to
the public banks, some private banks, and selected finance companies for their eligible Y2K related
expenditures including the cost of consultants and equipment (see Annex 8 (v) for criteria for
onlending). Demand for credit is established for Bank of Ceylon and Peoples' Bank and less so for
many private domestic banks, most of whom have already budgeted for their Y2K programs. Some
of the private domestic banks may find that the cost of funds and the transaction cost associated with
the sub-loans under the IDA project is too high. These sub-loans will be provided to the banks at a
rate similar to their cost of funds, that is the Average Weighted Deposit Rate (AWDR). This is the
weighted average of interest paid to depositors by all commercial banks on interest bearing deposits,
as calculated and issued monthly by CBSL. The applicable interest rate will be a rolling 6 months
AWDR. The maturity of the sub-loans will not be more than 10 years inclusive of a grace period of
two years. The repayment period was based on the estimated average life of the computer facilities
(including mainframes) and the time the banks depreciate the cost of such equipment. The sub-loans
will finance up to 80 percent of the cost of the banks' Y2K remediation activities for the public
banks and up to 60 percent for the private commercial banks, and finance companies.
The Central Bank will borrow the proceeds allocated for the credit component from the GSOL at the
rate of AWDR minus one percent, with a maturity of 10 years inclusive of 2 years grace period. The
details of terms and conditions of the CBSL's loan as well as the administrative arrangements are
provided in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the CBSL and the GOSL.
I (b) - A Technical Assistance Component of US$ 1.0 million for CBSL's Project Coordinating
Unit to conduct its scaled-up Y2K monitoring and supervision of the banks. It is important to
mention that although some private banks may not need financing from CBSL, their Y2K activities
will be closely monitored by the CBSL on a regular basis. The Central Bank will audit the private
banks along with the public banks for Y2K readiness. Ensuring compliance with Y2K by all banks
is part of the regulatory and supervisory role of the CBSL. The project will facilitate regulatory
enforcement by providing the banks with necessary technical and financial assistance.
2 See Annex 13 for a detailed report on the "Strategic Approach to Y2K Problems in the Sri Lanka Banking
Sector", prepared by the World Bank appraisal team. While this report refers to the banking sector, the
recommended approaches are applicable to any institution. The report was prepared to assist the concerned
institutions adopt a strategic approach and take necessary steps for their respective Y2K remediation
activities; it was shared with them during the appraisal mission. The report is based on the best practices
available from the reputable sources.



Page 10
II. Government Agencies Component - The TA will finance the cost of required equipment
(hardware, software, embedded systems), experts (local and international) for various technical tasks,
and short-term staff training in the concerned institutions. In view of the facts mentioned in section
B.3, funds need to be fungible so that they can be allocated to the critical agencies as needed to
ensure Y2K readiness in their core businesses.
Table 1 - Project Components
Indicative               IDA
Costs       % of   Financing  % of IDA
Components                Sector      (US$M) 'I/    Total   (US$M)   Financing
Financial Sector Component       Finance and       29.7                   21.0      70.7%
*  Credit line for banking sector    Banking       28.5       96.0%       20.0      70.2%
and some finance companies.
*  Technical Assistance for CBSL                    1.2        4.0%        1.0      83.3%
Government Agencies Component   Multi-Sector        8.3                    8.0      96.4%
*  PCU in MOF                                       0.7        4.7%        0.5       71.4%
*  Y2K Remediation Sub-project                      7.6       95.3%        7.5      98.7%
Total      38.0                   29.0       76.3%
Total Project Costs     38.0
" The amount is approximate based on a preliminary estimate. The amount can change as the circumstances
are uncertain and the GOSL may have to provide additional resources to remedy the Y2K problem. The
1999 budget has specific allocations for the Y2K remediation activities; exact allocation will be known later.
11 (a) - Project Coordination - A US$0.5 million will be allocated for setting up a Project
Coordinating Unit in MOF. This unit will closely monitor the concerned agencies and provide
assistance in planning and implementation of their Y2K remediation activities. The MOF is also
responsible to evaluate the institutions' financial needs based on their Y2K remediation plan before
allocating the funds.
II (b) - Y2K Remediation Sub-projects - This component of US$7.5 million will, in part, finance
the needs of Y2K activities in critical public sectors. Among those, the IRD has demonstrated its
immediate need for financial and technical assistance for its Y2K project. Other potential sectors
could be the Census and Statistics Department, the Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation, the Sri Lanka
Customs, and other public administration agencies.
C.2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed IDA credit is for an emergency project that mainly focuses on Y2K-related problems.
The project does not attempt to address any long-term policy or institutional reforms in the financial
sector and will not have any conditionality linked to financial sector policy. It will not have any
macro-economic or public policy reform objective or conditionality. Although the project does not
directly include any institutional development activities, it will have a positive impact on the systems
upgrading of the banking sector, the CBSL, and the concerned public agencies. It will also have a



Page I I
technical assistance component for training staff to perform the required information technology
tasks during project implementation and for necessary consultancy services during the
implementation and testing stages.
C.3. Benefits and target population:
The direct beneficiary of the project will be the CBSL, the banking sector, some finance companies,
and the above-mentioned government agencies and their line ministries. The primary benefits will
be remediation of possible systems crashes and preservation or restoration of their day-to-day
functions. In addition, the close attention and commitment of the CBSL and MOF on this issue will
have two indirect benefits. The first is the creation of more awareness in other sectors that are at
higher risks. Second, the institutions that provide services to the banking and financial systems
(telecommunications, electricity, and others) may be forced to take more serious actions to comply
with the Y2K systems requirements.
C.4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
There is no one solution that will suit every institution. Each institution must consider how best to
establish its priorities and its Y2K contingency planning. However, most experts today emphasize
that the only "Silver Bullet" for the Year 2000 challenge is Program Management. The Y2K
project will be managed by CBSL for the banking sector and by MOF for the public agencies. There
will be two Project Coordinating Units (PCUs), one in each institution (see figure 1).
PCU of the CBSL - While each individual bank is responsible for its own Y2K program, the CBSL
needs to take the lead in ensuring the banks' Y2K readiness. A PCU, headed by an executive
director of Central Bank, will be responsible for implementation of the project and for periodic
monitoring of the Y2K remediation efforts in the banking sector. The Central Bank's bank
supervision and IT departments will share the responsibility of managing the Y2K activities. The
PCU will consist of a team of Central Bank examiners or supervisors and information technology
specialists. Two specialized committees will be established for evaluation, monitoring, and
administration of the entire program for the banking sector. A Y2K Sub-Loan Evaluation
Committee will be in charge of the technical evaluation of the sub-loan applications, including
assessment of eligibility for the sub-loans (see Annex 8 (v)). A Supervision Committee will be
responsible for close monitoring and supervision of the banks' Y2K programs. Both committees
should be staffed by people from the IT and banking supervision departments. This PCU will report
to the Governor of CBSL and the World Bank on the status of Y2K project on monthly basis. The
PCU should coordinate with the Bankers' Association and attend its regular meetings.
PCU of the MOF - Effective project management by the MOF is extremely important. While each
individual institution is responsible for its own Y2K program, the MOF needs to take the lead in
ensuring that the critical businesses will be Y2K ready. A PCU will be created in the MOF headed
by a senior officer and staffed by IT experts. This PCU should closely and regularly liaise with the
Y2K coordinators from each institution and will be responsible for reviewing, assessing, and close
monitoring the Y2K projects in the concerned agencies. It will report to the Deputy Secretary of the
Treasury and the World Bank on monthly basis.
Both of the PCUs will report to the joint national task force regularly. This periodic reporting is
essential to keep the Y2K national plan up-to-date, to inform each institution about progress in the
other sectors, and to plan for contingency measures as necessary.



Page 12
Figure 1 - Sri Lanka: Y2K Project Management
Ministry of                                    Central Bank
Finance &                                           of
Planning                                        Sri Lanka
l                                   I .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Y2K Project                                     Y'2K Project
Coordinating                                    Coordinating
Unit (MOF-PCU)                                    Unit (C:BSL,-
PCI' )
Y2K Tender           Y2K                Y2K Loan
Committee         Supervision           Evaluation
Committee            Committee
Y2K Tender Committee - It is absolutely essential to establish a Y2K Tender Committee to
review the applications for Y2K-related procurement in a speedy manner, allowing flexibility while
exercising sound judgement. This Tender Committee should be empowered and independent. The
tender committee needs to meet as often as necessary to attend to the procurement issues in due
course. Procurement under this project will follow the World Bank "Y2K Procurement" guidelines
that were issued on November 4, 1998 by the Procurement Policy and Services Group of the
Operational Core Services Network (OCSPR) and the Procurement Group of the Legal Operations
Front Office (LEGOP); see Annex 6. Procurement under this project will be reviewed by the
Regional Procurement Specialist in the Colombo office, who will work closely with the Y2K Tender
Committee. Monthly reports on the Y2K project activities in the concerned institutions will be
prepared by the respective PCUs and will be reported to the World Bank.
Project Financial Management Arrangements: The project will be implemented by two Project
Coordinating Units. The first PCU, with staff assigned from the CBSL, will be responsible for the
Financial Sector Component and for the overall coordination of the project. The second PCU, with
staff assigned from the Ministry of Finance and consultants who are to be hiired, will be responsible
for the Govemment Agencies Component of the project. Both PCUs will be housed at CBSL, thus,
financial management of the project as a whole will be the responsibility of the CBSL-PCU. The
project will have adequate financial management system as required by OP/BP 10.02 for
implementing the project. Due to the short preparation time available, Project Management Report
(PMR) based disbursements will not be adopted for the project, and also given the short
implementation period of the project, it is recommended that the current disbursement procedures be
used throughout the 2.5 year life of the project.



Page 13
D: Project Rationale
D.1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The nature of this project is unique in the sense that it focuses on the Y2K problem. The root of the
problem is a technical one and the project objective is to assist the banking sector and critical
government agencies to take quick and strategic actions to comply with the Century Date Change.
The scope of the project and its components are chosen by the government based on the importance
of the sectors, the critical roles these sectors play in the national economy, and most of all the need
of these sectors for financial and technical resources. These would translate to a unique project
design and an implementation plan. The plan presented here draws on best practices and
recommendations from the most useful and reliable sources available.
Y2K bug is a widespread problem with high severity of outcome and fixed deadline, and must be
given high priority by the country and its institutions. The current situation and status of the Y2K
problem in the banking sector, as assessed by independent consultants and the appraisal mission,
indicate lack of effective management and control by individual institutions. Therefore, attention of
the CBSL at the highest level is essential for the success of the project. Creation of a strong PCU in
the MOF is also desirable for effective monitoring and administration of the Y2K remediation
activities in the critical government institutions. Alternatives considered include the following:
Alternative: Draw on the existing Bank-financed portfolio rather than initiating new loan. The
current IDA portfolio for Sri Lanka in the financial sector is almost nonexistent. Therefore, there is
no alternative source of funding and a new loan needs to be prepared. In some sectors, such as
telecommunications, health, education, there are IDA projects in implementation and funding may be
sought from these projects if needed.
Alternative: Creation of a single PCU. Given the importance of strong program management -- and,
consequently, a high degree of ownership -- it is crucial that the Central Bank and the MOF have
their own respective Y2K units. Each beneficiary institution will establish its own Y2K unit to
manage remediation activities. However, centralization of the Y2K administration in the MOF,
rather than in individual units, allows funds to be allocated and disbursed quickly, and allows
coordination of activities in critical sectors.
Alternative: Use competitive market rates or concessionary rates for on-lending component.
Concessionary rates threaten to reward the inefficiencies of managers who were slow to respond to
the Y2K crisis. In addition, the use of concessionary rates would not be prudent for the Government,
because it would not be able to cover the cost of foreign exchange losses. The use of competitive
market rates would very likely preclude the use of the on-lending component, as capital at market
rates can be secured elsewhere, and without the procurement and supervision conditions required
under this project. AWDR is the approximate cost of funds for commercial banks and encourages
the banks to secure funds for their Y2K project. This assures that Y2K remediation will not be
limited by lack of capital, while requiring prudent use of funds, according to regular business
practice.
D.2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
The requests for Bank Group assistance on Y2K remediation have been initiated only from mid
1998. It is expected that as the new millennium approaches, more countries may ask for the Bank
assistance.



Page 14
Table 2 - Related World Bank Projects
Latest Supervision Ratings
Sector issue                 Project              (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation     Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed. Financial    Argentina: Y2K Emergency  At the Appraisal,    To assist the
and economic management.   Assistance                 Negotiation stage.  respective
governments to
Malaysia: Y2K Emergency  At the Appraisal    deal with the
Assistance                Stage.             Y2K problem at
I the national level
Other development agencies  InfoDev." Y2K emergency  Available to eligible countries upon
assistance grants for the  their request. Planning grant of
planning and              US$100,000 and Implementation grant
implementation of Y2K    of US$500,000. The grant fund was
problem.                  provided by the British Government.
"See footnote 1.
D.3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
No similar project has been financed by the World Bank Group from which lessons can be drawn.
Two other Y2K projects are also at the preparation and appraisal stages (see table 2). Lessons drawn
from institutions that have already started on remediation efforts and from many reliable sources on
Y2K issues, indicate that effective project management and adoption of a contingency-based
remediation plan are key elements for successful Y2K compliance. The management of this project
is based, to the extent possible, on international best practices.
The project has focused objectives and scope, is demand-driven, and is an emergency assistance
program. Other such emergency operations indicate that for managing and implementation of the
project, there is a need for sufficient flexibility to react to unforeseen circumstances and for
centralized decision-making, planning, and monitoring by high-level authorities.
D.4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government's strategy, plan, and measures taken so far (see section B) indicate the
government's commitment at the highest level. In addition, the request for the loan was initiated by
the Governor of the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance, who have put significant importance
and urgency on the implementation of this project.
D.5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Given the project scope and objectives, IDA support would provide the required financing for this
project and would bring expertise and best practices for the project management. IDA's involvement
will give greater visibility to the problem nationwide.



Page 15
E: Summary Project Analysis
E.1. Economic: While the root of the Y2K problem is a simple technical one, its potentially
pervasive impact may put at risk the operations of financial, economic, and social systems.
Therefore, noncompliance with the Y2K could have severe economic and social consequenices, the
cost of which is difficult to measure. The interdependence of business activities can create some ad
hoc and unforeseen costs. In addition, extraordinary demand for resources will increase the cost of
remediation as the new century approaches. The economic benefit of complying with efforts to solve
the Y2K problem would be the saving of avoided damages in the functioning of critical businesses in
the country.
E.2. Financial: The Y2K problem is widespread and could potentially affect any computer-based
institution or operation. At this time, the impact is not known. Therefore, it is not possible to predict
the extent to which financial and economic activities will be disrupted. Even if an institutioni is Y2K
ready, it will not be fully safe if its customers and service providers are not Y2K compliant.
Therefore, it is difficult to measure or estimate the financing cost of the project.
Fiscal impact - The fiscal impact of this project can be measured from two angles. The first angle
is avoiding or minimizing on potential damages. The GOSL is covering the two revenue generating
public agencies under this project and has given high priority to their Y2K remnediation. It is
expected that these agencies will continue their critical business functions after 2000 without
interruptions. The second angle is covering the foreign exchange cost of the IDA credit. Over 60
percent of this credit will be onlent to the banks at the AWDR, whichi should partly cover the foreign
exchange losses of the loan.
E.3. Technical: All the sub-projects for the banking sector and the government agencies will be
evaluated by the IT team in the PCUs. The team will review and monitor on a regular basis, the sub-
projects' specifications, costs, and implementation time tables.
E.4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Each institution is responsible for its own Y2K remediation; however,
close monitoring, technical assistance, and some financing will be made available to them by
CBSL and MOF.
b. Project management: The MOF and CBSL are responsible for maniaginig and coordinating
Y2K activities for their respective institutions. Two PCUs were established, one in each
institution. (For details see section C.)
E.5. Social: The project is expected to have a positive social impact. Avoiding or minimizing the
Y2K risk would have a positive impact on economic activities and therefore on society in general,
both at the national and international levels.
E.6. Environmental assessment:      Environmental Category   [ A     [ B   [x] C



Page 16
E.7. Participatory approach: The Y2K problem is not an isolated one. The chain of dependencies
and interconnections implies that each individual system is dependent on many other systems.
Moreover, because the country is not isolated from the rest of the world, the network of relationships
and dependencies goes beyond national borders, creating further uncertainty and risk. Therefore,
solving the Y2K problem requires collective efforts among different institutionis and collaboration
among the entities within their business enterprise. All the institutions should work together and
provide support and assistance to one another. When a country starts late to solve the Y2K problem,
it is crucial that all the public and private entities collectively work on an effective contingenicy plan.
In Sri Lanka, the following steps confirm the participatory approach among the stakeholders for the
Y2K remediation efforts:
i.   creation of the joint task force with its effective awareness program;
ii.   creation of a hotline in the CINTEC for public queries;
iii.  close collaboration among the CBSL, MOF, various business associations (bankers
associations, vendors associations, and others), and the joinlt task force; and
iv.   establishment of two PCUs to oversee the problem and provide assistance to the critical
sectors.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The primary beneficiaries of the
project are the domestic commercial banks, the banking sector in general, the critical government
agencies, and their line ministries.
b. Other key stakeholders: Other economic and financial institutions and the general public
will benefit from this project. At both national and international levels the businesses, service
providers, and customers will be potential beneficiaries.
F: Sustainability and Risks
F.1. Sustainability:
In the context of Y2K projects, sustainability can be viewed as the business continuity of the
institutions after the year 2000. In addition, the Y2K remediation and systems upgrading should be
viewed as institutional development, the impact of which will lead to continued and improved
business operations in the coming years.



Page 17
F.2. Critical risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk Minimization Measure
Risk                      Risk Rating         Under Consideration
From Outputs to Objective
Delays in preparation of a Y2K remediation plan  Moderate   PCUs to actively supervise and
and a well-defined and sufficient Y2K                      monitor.
contingency plan.
Losing IT staff in critical positions is likely to  Substantial  Consider incentives
increase in 1999, due to better pay in the
international market.
Continued lack of dialogue and low          Moderate       CBSL and MOF to intervene,
communications between the IT unit and the                 organize workshops, and meet with
higher level management. Halfway commitment.               management.
Lack of attention by banks to credit risk   Moderate       CBSL to request this to be done.
assessment of their corporate clients' Y2K
readiness.
Noncompliance by the service providers and or   Substantial  Promote collaboration and collective
customers.                                                 efforts
Increasing cost of remediation as the millennium   Substantial  Allocate more resources up front and
rapidly approaches.                                        early.
Underestimation of the resources, expertise, and   Substantial  Improve remediation and contingency
time required to implement and test the systems            planning
for Y2K readiness.
From Components to Outputs
l.a. availability of financial resources to banks and Negligible
some finance companies for their Y2K
remediation and contingency.
l.b. Close and effective bank supervision for Y2K Moderate
readiness
ll.a. Close and effective monitoring of Y2K  Moderate      Establish a strong PCU in MOF
activities of the government agencies.                     headed by a director and staffed with
qualified IT professionals for
effective planning and monitoring of
the Y2K activities of public sector.
lI.b. availability of financial resources to  Negligible
government agencies for their Y2K remediation
and contingency.
Overall Risk Rating                         Substantial              X
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
F.3. Possible controversial aspects:
None.



Page 18
G: Main Loan Conditions
G.1. Effectiveness Conditions:
There are three loan effectiveness conditions: (i) execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(SLA); (ii) legal opinion regarding the Development Credit Agreement; and (iii) legal opinion
regarding the SLA.
G.2. Other: Other conditions include establishment of the two PCUs and the Y2K Tender
Committee. These conditions have already been met. Both implementing agencies, MOF and CBSL
are fully committed and have expeditiously established a PCU in their respective organizations to
deal with this issue. Both agencies have appointed high level staff to head these units, appointed
full-time officers from their organizations, and hired additional qualified IT professionals to fill the
technical gap for effective implementation. A Y2K Tender Board and a technical tender evaluation
committee were also appointed by the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the 1999 budget has
allocated funds for Y2K remediation and considers incentives (see section B) for the institutions at
risk in order to expedite the activities.
H: Readiness for Implementation
] I. (a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
[x ] I. (b) Not applicable.
[x ] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x ] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[ ] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[x ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
The applicable procurement guideline for this project is the "Y2K Procurement" guidelines issued by
OCSPR on November 4, 1998, to allow flexibility and speedy procurement for Y2K projects. In
addition, due to the specific scope and particular circumstances of the Sri Lanka Y2K project, the
following is strongly recommended.
In the case of the Sri Lanka project, we deal with two very large banks with complex and large
computer systems. They account over 60 percent of the banking activities in the country and have
very wide branch networks. Having realized their importance in Sri Lanka's economy and severe
impact of Y2K noncompliance, both banks started to look into this issue starting early 1998. The
appraisal team had extensive meetings with the two banks on this issue and reviewed their Y2K
activities. The banks identified their needs and contacted appropriate and reputable vendors and
suppliers early in 1998. While they still need to procure a lot of equipment and hire international



Page 19
consultants, banks have already ordered part of their equipment for critical business areas for which
the contract was signed in mid-1998. Despite rather. early efforts, the timetable for getting their
system Y2K ready is still very tight. In fact, it is good that they started earlier and that is what the
World Bank would have wanted to ensure the financial and economic stability of the country. These
circumstances may apply to all of the other agencies covered under this project, perhaps to a lesser
extent because they are much smaller organizations.
In view of the above, and based on the attached "Y2K Procurement" (Annex 6), it is strongly
recommended that all of the procurement contracts for Y2K readiness be eligible for financing under
this project retroactively from 180 days prior to the first date of appraisal mission, November 1,
1998.
Task Leader: Shideh Ha an (SASFP)
Team Le   r:F P)
Sector Manager/Director: MarilouUy
Country Manager/Director: Roberto Bentjerodt



Page 20
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Sri Lanka: Y2K Emergency Assistance Project
Monitoring and
Hierarchy of Objectives        Key Performance Indicators         Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:            Sector Indicators:            Sector / Country        (fi-om Goal to Bank Mission)
Financial sector development and    *   Sound banking system      Reports:                Thle Y2K project is an
efficient economic management       *   Sound economic            *   CAS                 cimergency operation. It Avas
management.              *   Financial Sector    demilanid driven.
*   Continuation of business       Update            In view of the CAS. the Bank
critical operations                              committed to assist the GOSL
on its Y2K remediation effort in
order to avoid or minimize
possible financial. economic.
and social disruptions.
Project Development Objective:      Outcome I Impact Indicators:   Project Reports:       (from Objective to Goal)
To assist the GOSL, on an urgent    (i) number of the financial   *   A Project appraisal  Remediation efforts succeed in
basis, in its efforts to prevent possible  institutions able to prevent  document         maintaining the functionality of
business disruption in the country's    disruption in their businesses  .   Project       transaction and management
economic and financial sectors as a  and continue to operate without   Implementation     inifornation systems.
result of the Y2K problem. The      major problems; (ii) estimated     Plan              C(ontidence in the government's
project will focus on assisting the  amount of damages in the     *   Credit Agreement   ability to manage the Y2K
country's banking sector, finance   financial and economic                                remediation efforts and keep a
companies, and selected critical    activities avoided or minimized;  Monthly reports from  sound economic and financial
govemment agencies to adopt and     (iii) number of critical      each PCUs will be       system.
implement a well-defined            government agencies to        prepared on the
contingency-based strategic plan for    continue their normal     implementation and
Y2K compliance.                     operations; and (iv) readiness    results of the projects
and ability of critical sectors to   for each concerned
quickly recover (measurable by  institution. Testing of
the time period) from possible   the systems is another
system damage or business     monitoring and
disruption after the Year 2000.   evaluation tool.
Output from each component:         Output Indicators:            Project Reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
*   Operating banking sector and    Same as above.                Same as above           Some of the banks, in particular
finance companies without any                                                         the public banks and critical
major problem.                                                                        govermment agencies were
*   Operating government agencies                                                         identified to be in urgent needs
without any major problem.                                                            for financial and technical
assistance. MOF and CBSL to
be in the best position to
administer these Y2K projects
Project Components/Sub-             Inputs: (budget for each      Project Reports:        (from Components to
components:                         component)                    Financial and           Outputs)
L Financial Sector Component                                      procurement reports on   L.a. Needs of banks are assessed
I.a. Credit component for onlending to  I.a. (US$20.0 m)          each institution's      realistically and resource
banking sector and finance companies.                             utilization of the loan  allocation required for quick
I.b. TA to PCU in CBSL                                            proceed.               remediation actions.
I.b. (US$1.0 m)                                       l.b. CBSL acquires sut'ficient
11. GovernmentAgencies Component                                                          training and exhibit sufficient
II.a. TA to PCU in MOF                                                                    institutional strength to co-opt
II.b. Y2K remediation sub-projects.                                                       Y2K remediation.
Il.a. (US$0.5 m)                                      Ila. MOF need to obtain high-
II.b. (US$7.5 m)                                      level technical staff to perform
its supervisory task.
ll.b. Needs of critical
government agencies are
assessed and financial and
technical assistance are needed
urgently.



Page 21
Annex 2: Project Description
Sri Lanka: Y2K Emergency Assistance Project
Detailed project description is available in the text.
I. Financial Sector Component - US$21.0 million equivalent which will be utilized by the CBSL
as follows.
I (a) - A Credit Component of US$20.0 million for onlending, through the CBSL, to the large
public banks (and few private banks) for their eligible Y2K related expenditures including the cost of
consultants and equipment.
I (b) - A Technical Assistance Component of US$1.0 million for CBSL to conduct its scaled up
Y2K monitoring and supervision of the banks.
II. Government Agencies Component - The TA will finance the cost of required equipment,
experts (local and international) for various technical tasks, and short term staff training of the
concerned institutions.
II (a) - Project Coordination - A US$0.5 million will be allocated for setting up a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) for close monitoring of the concerned agencies and providing assistance in
planning and implementing their Y2K remediation activities.
1I (b) - Y2K Remediation Sub-projects - This component of US$7.5 million will, in part, finance
the needs of Y2K activities in critical sectors. Among those, the IRD has demonstrated its
immediate need for financial and technical assistance for its Y2K project. Other potential sectors
could be the Census and Statistics Department, Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation, Sri Lanka
Customs, and other public administration agencies.
Terms of reference for consultants/experts prepared based on the priority needs of the concerned
institutions and also based on the best practices available from the reputable sources. A proposed
format for sub-loan applications and criteria was also prepared. These documents are available in
the project files.



Page 22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Sri Lanka: Y2K Emergency Assistance Project
Foreign                 of which
Project Cost by Component               Local      (US$ million)    Total       IDA
A. Financial Sector Component                       10.4          19.3         29.7        21.0
1. Credit Line for the Banking Sector            10.0          18.5          28.5       20.0
2. Technical Assistance / Project Coordination    0.4           0.8          1.2         1.0
B. Government Agencies Component                    1.7           6.6           8.3        8.0
1. Project Coordination                          0.7            0.0          0.7        0.5
2. Y2K Remediation Subprojects                    1.0           6.6          7.6        7.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       12.1          25.9         38.0       29.0
Estimated Demand for Funds by Banking Sector"
Total request    IDA Financing
Total request     based on the     (S m)
Cost of the sub-loans of the     based on the      project cost     (80% for state     Sponsors
financial sector                 project cost       (US$ million)    banks and 60%       (US$
Component 1/                     (Rs million)      (Rs 67/US$ 1)    for private         million)
banks)
State Banks (TOTAL)                    970.1             14.5             11.6            2.9
Bank of Ceylon                       531.0              7.9              6.3            1.59
Peoples' Bank                        339.1              5.1              4.0            1.01
National Savings Bank                100.0              1.5              1.2            0.30
Private Banks (TOTAL)                 1,037.6            15.5              9.3            6.2
Union Bank                            49.8              0.7              0.4            0.3
Pan Asia Bank                         118.5             1.8              1.1            0.7
Seylan Bank                          527.8              7.9              4.7            3.2
Commercial Bank of Ceylon             95.0              1.4              0.9            0.6
Dev. Fin. Corp. of Ceylon             76.5              1.1              0.7            0.5
National Dev. Bank                     5.0              0.1              0.06            0.04
Hatton National Bank                 165.0              2.5              1.5             1.0
Total Requested                       2,007.7            30.0             20.9            9.1
Based on the assessments done by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka during the project appraisal.



Page 23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs (continued)
Sri Lanka: Y2K Emergency Assistance Project
Local      Foreign      Total
Project Cost by Category                     (US$ million)
10.0        18.5       28.5
Subloans for Part AI
Goods for Parts A2 and B                        1.0         2.1         3.1
Consultants' Services & Training for Parts A2 and B  1.0    5.3         6.3
Incremental Project Coordination Expenses       0.1         0.0         0.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   12.1        25.9       38.0
Local        Foreign           Total
Financing Plan                         (US$ million)
0.3           0.2              0.5
GOSL
IDA                                  5.3           23.7            29.0
Sponsors                             6.5           2.0              8.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST              12.1           25.9            38.0
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
[Not Applicable]
Annex 5: Financial Summary
[Not Applicable]



Page 24
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Sri Lanka: Y2K Emergency Assistance Project
Procurement Methods (See Annex 6 - tables A and B)
1.   The procurement methods applicable to various expenditure categories are summarized in
Table A. The procurement for this Y2K project is mostly based on the "Y2K Procurement"
guidelines issued by the OCSPR in November 4, 1998, to accommodate the flexibility for
procurement for the Y2K projects proposed for financing by World Bank loans. In addition, due to
the complexity of the problem and the critical time factor, all contracts signed for procurement of
goods for the purposes of the Y2K remediation 180 days prior to the first day of the appraisal
mission (November 1, 1998) would be eligible for financing under the proposed loan.
2.   Goods: Procurement of goods would be contracted in accordance with the provisions of the
Guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 (Revised
September 1997).
3.   Upgrades for existing computer hardware systems and software may be procured through
direct contracting. Off-the-shelf computer hardware or those with standard specifications and
computer software valued at less than US$1,500,000 per contract may be procured through
national/international shopping. All other computer hardware/software would be procured through
LIB procedures.
4.   Consultant Services: Consultant Services would be contracted in accordance with the
provisions of the Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, dated January 1997 (revised September 1997). To accelerate the process of selection, a
collective/consolidated advertisement requesting expression of interests should be published
periodically in Development Business.
5.   With IDA's concurrence, small contracts, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 for
diagnostic studies, may be procured through Single-Source Selection or Selection Based on
Consultant's Qualifications.
6.   All other consultants would be selected using Quality and Cost Based Selection procedure.
7.   Training: Training covering the trainees' expenses toward subsistence, travel and fees would
be procured using GOSL administrative procedures acceptable to IDA.
8.   Equipment: Equipment may be procured through national shopping.
Prior review thresholds
9.   All contracts for computer hardware and software procured through LIB would be subject to
IDA's prior review of all documentation. IDA would review the consultant TORs prior to issuing
Request for Proposals (RFP). With respect to consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$500,000 for firms and US$100,000 for individuals, all documentation (Letter of Invitation,
TORs, proposals, evaluation
reports and contracts) will be subjected to IDA's prior review. All the other contracts would be
subject to post review.



Page 25
Disbursement
1. Assessment of the Financial Management System
(a) Internal Controls
The project will adopt the existing system of internal control procedures of the CBSL and, where
applicable, the Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka. These procedures, which are
well established and documented, cover almost every aspect of financial admilistration and will
ensure orderly and efficient conduct of the project activities. Further, the two sub-committees to be
established under the CBSL-PCU, one for evaluating Y2K sub-loan applications and the other for
monitoring and supervising Y2K programs of the banks, together with the MOF-PCU's committee
for reviewing Y2K projects of public sector organizations, will provide the necessary control
environment for the project.
[Explanatory note on the procedures of the CBSL and other relevant documents are available in the
project files. Information about the Financial Regulations of the GOSL is available in the Sri Lanka
Country Financial Accountability Assessment study].
(b) Accounting System
The CBSL-PCU will maintain separate set of accounts for recording all finanicial transactions of the
project in accordance with sound accounting practices. The accounting system to be adopted will
reflect the type of project, the sources and uses of project funds etc. Thie system will also facilitate
timely reporting as per the agreed monthly financial management reporting formats. A simple chart
of accounts to meet the needs of the project has been developed and is available in the project files.
Project accounts will be maintained manually until a PC-based accounting software (using MS-
Access) is developed. Cash basis of accounting will be adopted for this project.
The CBSL-PCU unit will also monitor contract commitments and other information required to track
procurement progress of the project.
(c) Auditing
The CBSL will appoint an independent external auditor by April 1, 1999. The auditor's TOR and
the shortlist of audit firms were reviewed by the Bank and were found to be acceptable. CBSL-PCU
will be responsible for the submission of semi-annual project audit reports (within two months after
the end of the six-month period) and annual project audit reports (within six months after the end of
the fiscal year) to IDA. The audit report will give separate opinions on the following:
1. Whether the project financial statements have been satisfactorily prepared to present fairly in
all material respects, the financial performance of the project for the reporting period;
2. Whether adequate supporting documentation has been maintained to support claims
submitted to the Bank based on the SOE procedures;
3. Whether the expenditures claimed are eligible for financing under the agreement; and
4. Whether the financial statements of the Special Account give a true and fair view of the
financial position of the Special Account.



Page 26
(d) Reporting
The CBSL-PCU will submit the following financial management reports to IDA on a monthly basis
within two weeks after the end of each month.
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds         Report I-A        (both in US$ and in local
currency)
Uses of Funds by Project Activity            Report I-B
Schedule of Sub-Loans                        Loans Report
Schedule of Sub-Projects                     Projects Report
(e) Staffing
Financial aspects of the project will be overseen by a Project Accountant, who has already been
assigned by CBSL to work on the CBSL-PCU. He will be responsible for ensurinig timely recording
and reliable reporting of all financial transactions of the project. He will work closely with the staff
of the CBSL-PCU, MOF-PCU, GOSL officials, clients of the project, and the World Bank. He will
be provided with necessary support staff.
2. Status of PCUs' compliance with audit covenants in existing Bank-financed projects
CBSL is the only bank in Sri Lanka which maintains Special Accounts for donor supported projects
and administers debt service payments; their performance in this regard is impeccable. CBSL is
presently implementing an IDF grant which do not have audit reporting requirements.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Project disbursements will follow the current disbursement procedures and, given the short
implementation period of the project, it is recommended that these procedures be used throughout
the 2.5 year life of the project.
Given the urgent nature of the project and the year 2000 deadline, 80 percent of the credit is expected
to be disbursed within six months after credit effectiveness.
(a) Special Account
Project disbursements are expected to be channeled, almost exclusively, througlh the Special Account
(SA). As the project's main focus is the banking sector, which already has an established network for
making international payments, there will be few requests for special commitments, direct payments
and reimbursements. Given this and the fact that payments out of the credit will mostly be for large
contracts, the project will require a substantially high allocation as initial deposit into the SA.
CBSL-PCU will be responsible for opening and operating the SA according to terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The SA will be denominated in US Dollars with an initial authorized allocation
of US$6 million. Payments out of the SA will be made exclusively for eligible expenditures of the
project (for both components). Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly basis, or
when the available balance in the SA reaches 40 percent of the advance.
From the advance in the SA, CBSL-PCU will withdraw an amount, not exceeding US$15,000, and
deposit it as an advance into another account to meet IDA's share of incremental monthly project



Page 27
coordination expenses of the MOF-PCU. Unlike the CBSL-PCU, the MOF-PCU is not in position to
pre-finance their incremental operating expenses.
(b) Allocation of Credit Proceeds
The credit proceeds will be allocated amongst four categories as shown in Annex 6, table C.
(c) Statement of Expenditure (SOE)
Withdrawals from the credit could be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for: (a)
training; (b) incremental project coordinating expenses; and (c) contracts not exceeding the
equivalent of (i) $500,000 for goods; (ii) $200,000 for services of consulting firms; and (iii)
$100,000 for services of individual consultants. CBSL-PCU will be responsible for ensuring all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills and other documents) evidencing SOE expenditures are
retained for review by the Bank's supervision missions and by the auditors.
(d) Retroactive Financing
To facilitate prompt execution of GOSL's Y2K remedial efforts, the credit will retroactively finance
IDA's share of eligible project expenditures that have been/will be paid before the date of Credit
Agreement. Therefore, withdrawals on account of payments made for expenditures before the date
of the Credit Agreement but after (within 12 months before credit signing), in respect of Categories
(i) through (iv), can be made subject to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$
10% of the credit amount.
4. Pending Actions
Appointment of Auditors     - April 1, 1999



Page 28
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements3
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                            Procurement Method                             Total Cost
Category                                                                            (including
LIB        Shopping       Direct      QCBS        Other      contingencies)
1. Goods                  10.1          8.0          10.0                                    28.1
(6.1)        (4.8)         (6.0)                                  (16.9)
2. Consultancy                                                     7.8         2.0            9.8
(7.4)      (1.9)          (9.3)
TOTAL                     10.1          8.0           10.0         7.8         2.0           37.9
(6.1)        (4.8)         (6.0)        (7.5)       (1.9)         (26.2)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit. LIB is Limited International Bidding;
QCBS is Quality and Cost Based Selection
" Other Includes quality based selection (QBS), single source selection and individual consultants
3 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 1 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations."



Page 29
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review4
Expenditure                 Contract Value            Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category                   (Threshold)                 Method              Prior Review
US$ thousands                                     US$ millions
1. Goods and Equipment
Goods and equipment related    < US$1.5 million per contract   Direct Contracting i   All contracts over
to upgrades of existing      up to an aggregate amount not                     US$ 500,000 each
computer systems             to exceed US$10.0 million
All other goods and equipment  < US$200,000 per contract  National Shopping    None
(including software)
> US$200,000 and
< US$1.5 million per contract.  International     All contracts over
Aggregate amount of national  Shopping            US$500,000
/international shopping not to
exceed US$12.0 million
> US$1.5 million                    LIB           All contracts
2. Consultant Services
Consultant Contracts         < US$100,000 per contract for   Selection based on  None
individuals.                 individual consultants
> US$100,000 per contract for   Selection based on  All contracts
individuals.                 individual consultants
< US$100,000 per contract for   Selection based on  None
firms.                       qualification or single
source selection
> US$100,000 per contract for   QCBS or QBS cl    All contracts >
firrns bl                                         US$200,000
Aggregate amount of all                           (Full Review)
consulting services other than                    For contracts > $100,000
QCBS shall not exceed                             and < $200,000 limited
US$200,000                                        review as per DCA.
Below $100,000, no prior
review is required.
All contracts proposed by direct contracting method will require prior IDA clearance based on a rational and justification
consistent with the circumstances described in Para. 3.7 of the Guidelines. For contracts above US$ 500,000 IDA prior
review is required.
b I For contracts below $200,000, short list may comprise entirely of national consultants.
cl QBS method with prior concurrence of IDA.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six month(s) (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
4 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 30
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds '
Expenditure Category        Amount in    Amount in           Financing Percentage
SDR           US$
1. Subloans for Part AI of the    13,400,000    18,500,000  80% for public investment
Project                                         enterprises
60% for private investment
enterprises
2. Goods for Parts A.2 and B     1,810,000     2,500,000   100% of foreign expenditure
of the Project
1 00% of local expenditure (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local expenditure for other
items procured locally
3. Consultants' Services &       3,550,000     4,900,000   100%
Training for Parts A.2
and B of the Project
4. Incremental Project            110,000       150,000    80%
Coordination Expenses
for Parts A.2 and B.1 of
the Project
5. Unallocated                   2,130,000     2,950,000
TOTAL                 21,000,000    29,000,000
" IDA allocation is based on the Annex 3. About 10 percent of the project cost in each category was pooled into
the unallocated category for contingency.



Page 31
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Sri Lanka: Y2K Emergency Assistance Project
Planned
Project Schedule                         (At final PAD stage)   Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)   Three weeks      Three weeks
First Bank mission (identification)           11/2/1998        11/2/1998
Appraisal mission departure                   11/2/1998        11/2/1998
Negotiations                                12/21-23/1998     12/21-23/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                2/12/1999         2/12/1999
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                 Specialty
Shideh Hadian (Task Leader)       Operations Officer/Economist
Eva Lystad                        Principal Information Technology Specialist
Sriyani Hulugalle                 Industrial Economist
Bradford Adams                    Information Technology Specialist
Julitta Rasiah                    Financial Management Analyst
Jayantha De Mel                   Procurement Specialist
Agnes Evidente                    Team Assistant



Page 32
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Sri Lanka: Y2K Emergency Assistance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan - Prepared and agreed with the implementing institutions, MOF
and CBSL. PIP includes three attachments:
TOR for the PCU in the CBSL.
TOR for the PCU in the MOF.
TOR for the short and long term consultants appointed in these PCUs.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other:
i.    A Report on the "Year 2000 Preparation made by the banks within Sri Lanka". This report was
prepared by Ms. Rhian Roberts, Financial Services Authority of United Kingdom, prepared in
August 1998.
ii.   A Report on the "Year 2000 Compliance of the Banking and Financial Sector" prepared by the
CBSL in June-July 1998.
iii.  A Report on "A Strategic Approach to Y2K Problems in the Sri Lanka Banking Sector". This
report was prepared by the World Bank Appraisal Team based on the best practices available
from reputable sources. It was shared with the MOF, CBSL, and several other institutions
during the appraisal mission.
iv.   Terms of Reference for experts in the areas of Y2K Supervision/Review Audit and Testing for
Banking Sector; Telecommunication; Insurance; and Public Sector in General. Terms of
Reference for the two established PCUs in MOF and CBAL.
V.   A draft application form for onlending criteria to the banking sector.
vi.  The Proposal (dated October 29, 1998) from the GOSL seeking planning grant for the year
2000 computer related problems from the World Bank InfoDev Program (see footnote I in the
text).
vii.  The "Y2K Procurement" guidelines issued by the OCSPR on November 4, 1998.
viii. The first "Expression of Interests" advertised in the Development Business, issue # 500
published on December 16, 1998.
ix.  Control and procedures systems for financial management in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
x.   Terms of Reference for the Audit of project financial statements and special account.
xi.  Signed copy of the "Report on the Assessment of Project for Project Management Report-Based
Disbursements".



Page 33
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Sri Lanka: Y2K Emergency Assistance Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Sri Lanka
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(as of November 30, 1998)
Loan or                                                                                   Cancella-      Disburse-
Project ID      Credit No.   Fiscal Year      Borrower                  Purpose                  IDA          tions         ments          Undisbursed
LK-PE-10363           2183          1991           GOSL        3'd Roads                             42.5                       37.8                5.6
LK-PE-10378           2260          1991           GOSL        National Irrigation Rehabilitation    24.7         5.0           23.7                1.8
LK-PE-10409           2442          1993           GOSL        Community Water Supply &              24.3                       23.4               0.5
Sanitation
LK-PE-10419           2484          1993           GOSL        Private Finance Development           60.0                       58.1               4.9
LK-PE-10420           2495          1993           GOSL        Colombo Urban Transport               20.0                        12.7               7.6
LK-PE-10467           2757          1995           GOSL        Colombo Environmental                 39.0                        10.9              23.5
Improvement
LK-PE-42263           2837          1996           GOSL        Telecom Reg & Public Enterprises      15.0                        3.5               10.9
Reform TA
LK-PE-10517           2880          1996           GOSL        Private Sector Infrastructure Dev     77.0                        1.1               72.3
LK-PE-42266           2881          1996           GOSL        Teacher Education & Teacher           64.1                        7.6               53.3
Deployment
LK-PE-10526           2928          1997           GOSL        Health Services                       18.8                        1.9               16.1
LK-PE-10498           2938          1997           GOSL        Energy Services Delivery              24.2                        1.5               21.9
LK-PE-tO5t3           N014          1997           GOSL        Environmental Action 1                14.8                        2.7               12.1
LK-PE-10525           3014           1998          GOSL        General Education 11                  70.3                        2.5               68.6
LK-PE-34212           3058           1998          GOSL        Mahaweli Restructuring                57.0                        17.2              40.1



Page 34
Annex 10
Sri Lanka at a glance                                                              10{1{98
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Sri    South   middle-
Lanka      Asb   incoe         Development dimond'
1997
Populato. mid-year (millions)                        18.5     1.289     2.285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Alas method, USS)                    800        390     1.230
GNP (Adas meLthod USS billions)                      14.8       502     2,818
Aveae   annual growth, 1991-97                                                                      I
Population (%)                                        1.2       1.9       1.2
Labor force X)                                        1.8       2.2        1.3     GNP                             Gross
perpnnr
Moat recent estimate  atest year available, 1991-9)                                capita                     renroinment
Poverty (% of populaton below nabonal povent line)    22
Urban population t% of tota/ population)              23         27        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      72         62        69
Ifant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               16         71        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            38         63                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of popuiabon)                  64        77        84
1lieracy (% of populabon ape 15+)                      10        51        19
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)      113        99       111              Sri Lanka
Male                                               114        109       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             112         89       113     _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           3.6      6.4      13.8      14.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP               16.2    23.7       24.2      24.4
Exports of goods and serceslGDP             29.0    23.7       35.0      36.5                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  13.9    12.0       15.3       17.3
Gross national savings/GDP                  14.8    19.0       19.0      21.4                       T
Current account balance/GDP                 -0.2    -6.5       -4.9       -2 6
Interet payments/GDP                         0.6      1.9       2.1       1 8      Domestc                    Investment
Totl debtUGDP                               25.9    63.7       67.5      6110      Savmgs
Total debt servicelexports                  24.4    20.9       13.6       18.2
Pesent value of debtUGDP                                       37.9
Present value of debtexports                                   89.7
Indebtedness
1976-36  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 5.3      5.0      3.8       6.4                         Sf Lanka
GNP per capta                       3.8      2.8      2.1       5.8                         Lower-middle-income group
Ewatsof goods and services          4.7      9.1      3.2      11. 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996      1997      Growthes of output and inv-tmnt t%)
i(% of GOP) s
Agriculture                                 29.0    27.1       22.4      21.9
hdustry                                     27.1    26.6       25.1      25.5    10
lamtenfcturing                            20.0    15.2        16.2      18.4
Services                                    43.9    46.3       52.       52.6
Private consumpbon                          76.1    77.7       74.1      72.3            *2   c3   94   es   se   07
General govemment consumption               10.0    10.3       10.5       10.4              ' GDI           GDP
imports of goods and services               31.4    35.3       43.9      43.5                     GDI5_ _ __ __
(average annual growth)                  197646  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth    of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  42       2.1      -4.6        3.1 t
Industry                                     4.9      6.1       6.0       7.9
Manufacturing                              4.8      8.2        6.5       9       03
Services                                     6.7      5.6       5.8       6.8
Private consumpbon                           6.2      4.9       1.7        6        16
General govemment consumpton                 6.1      5.6      18.6      10.3
Gross domestic investment                   10.0      4.0       2.8       4.0            02   93   94   jO    0    07
nimpors of goods and services                9.9      7.1       2.1      10.5                    ions   X0 npons
Gross nabonal producL                        5.4      4.0       3.2       6.9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary esmates.
'The diamonds show four key indctos in te cuntry (in bold) compared with its income-group average. i data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 35
Sri Lanka
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1976     1986      1996       1997     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          s0
Consumer prices                                 ..      8.0      15.9       9.6    60 9
Implicit GDP deflator                        10.0       5.9      12.1       8.5    o0
Goverment finance                                                                   20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o:         _ 
Current revenue                                 ..    20.7       19.9      19.4             92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                         ..       1.8      -2.9      -1.4                GDP deflator    O CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -12.2        -8.5      -7.1                                              1
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   1,216      4,095     4,639     6000
Tea                                           ..      330       615       719
Other agricultural goods                      ..       94       346       341     4,0 0
Manufactures                                  ..    223       2,989     3,422     4000
Total imports (cif)                             ..   1,947      5,438     5,852
Food                                          ..    241         801       781     2,000
Fuel and energy                               ..    225         479       539
Capital goods                                 ..    377       1,204      1,325       0
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       84       103        106           s    z 9    4 9    8 9
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      63        103       105               M Exports     M imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      132        100       100                                              I
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 632    1,514      4,861     5,514     0
Imports of goods and services                 683    2,264      6,099     6,568
Resource balance                              -51     -750    -1,239    -1,054    -2
Net income                                    -20     -138       -203      -165
Net current transfers                          65      471       759        831    -4
Current account balance                        -6    -417        -683      -387
Financing items (net)                          43      306       666       481
Changes in net reserves                       -37      112         17       -94    -8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                   ..    1,937      2,029
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              8.4     28.0       55.5      60.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                      Composltion of total debt, 1996 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          930    4,083      7,995
IBRD                                         36       72        40        31                   G 5  A
IDA                                          44      498      1,516     1,514           F      G s6 A 40       1
Total debt service                            158      399        427
IBRD                                          6       12        11         9
IDA                                           0        5        20        22
C:531
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              59      175       147
Official creditors                           85      349       304
Private creditors                            12       10        -67                  E: 3.426                  D- 1,386
Foreign direct investment                     0       30       120
Portfolio equity                              0        0        70
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0      137       156       128      A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                 8       88       104        78      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          4        6        16        16      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     5       82        89        62   1                                           1
Interest payments                             3       11        15        14
Net transfers                                 2       72        73        48
World Bank                                                                                                           10/1/98



Page 36
Annex 11: Social Data Sheet
SOCMIL DATA SHEET FOR ASIA REGIONS
This form shall accompany the Environmental Data Sheet at the time of the IEPS and Concept Paper Review and then at the
FEPS and Decision Package Review. It is meant to serve as a planning tool for Task Managers, Divisions and Departments
and the team assisting them on social issues.  It will also assist in monitoring of projects under preparation and in the
discussion of resource and time implications.
Country:        Sri Lanka                        Project: Year 2000 Emergency Assistance Project
Project ID:  63472      Managing Division:       SASFP  Sector: Fin/PSD Board Date FY:  1/21/99
I. What are the key development objectives of the proposed project?
The Project's goal is to assist GOSL, on an urgent basis, in its efforts to prevent possible business disruption in the country's
economnic and financial sectors as a result of the Year 2000 (Y2K) problem. The Project will focus on assisting the
country's banking sector and selected critical government agencies to adopt and implement a well-defined contingency-based
strategic plan for Y2K compliance.
II. Social Screening Criteria (please check)
1.                        2.                            3.                             4.
MANDATORY                     POVERTY                         GENDER                    PROJECT SOCIL
(See Section IV.2)    l   I TARGETED            l      Project involves high risks     CLASSIFICATION /2
or high benefits for women
Resettlement/Land                 A                         High Risk: Yes    No          Type 1
Acquisition O.D. 4.30                               l                 x
Indigenous Peoples O.D            B                       High Benefits: Yes -No X        TYp 2
4.20                    j_                                  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
None                                                    Type 3           X
5. What are the key social concerns in this project?
Equity_
Adequate commnitment_
Adequate institutional capacity_ _ _ _
Adverse Impacts-X ..
Other social concerns: Non-compliance of the key and critical financial and economic sectors will have adverse economic,
financial, and social impact.
II. Stakeholder Identification
1. The project is expected to have a positive social impact. Avoiding or minimizing the Y2K risk would have a positive
impact on economic activities and therefore on society in general, both at the national and international levels.
The direct beneficiary of the project will be the CBSL, the banking sector, the public agencies, and their line ministries.
The indirect beneficiaries will be the general public.
1. Category A: Narrowly targeted, specific mechanisms, significant (>25%) funds earmarked for this.
Category B: Broad targeting, proportion of poor as beneficiaries higher than proportion in population.
Category AB: Narrow and broad targeting
2. Type 1: High adverse/risk or high benefits for populations within or outside of the project area especially populations belonging to
vulnerable groups such as indigenous peoples, ethnic minorities, women and the poor, or projects with resettlement. Project requires
extensive social analysis, high stakeholder involvement, and resources during preparation and implementation.
Type 2: Low risk/high benefits for populations within or outside the project area especially populations belonging to vulnerable
groups. Project requires some but limited social analysis and stakeholder involvement.
Type 3: Projects with limited/indirect impact on women/local populations, requiring limited stakeholder involvement and
social analysis.



Page 37
Social Data Sheet (continued)
Adversely Affected/Benefiting Groups:    Private Entities                Public Entities:
Total population in project area         Private Sector    X             Central Government Agencies  X
Women                                    Intn'l NGOs                     Provincial State Government
Children                                 Local NGOs                      Local Govermnent Ageiicies_
Poverty Groups_                          CBOs/3                          Other Donors_
Ethnic Minorities                                                        Bankinig Sector     X
Indigenous Peoples_
General public     X
If these are not sufficient categories list your own:
2. To promote transparency and accountability the Bank encourages task managers to document stakeholder involvement and
make this information publicly available. How will this be done in this project?
The Y2K problem is not an isolated one. The chain of dependencies and interconnections implies that each individual
system is dependent on many other systems. Moreover, because the country is not isolated from the rest of the world, the
network of relationships and dependencies goes beyond national borders, creating further uncertainty and risk. Therefore,
solving the Y2K problem requires collective efforts amnong different institutions and collaboration among the entities
within their business enterprise. All the institutions should work together and provide support and assistance to one
another. When a country starts late to solve the Y2K problem, it is crucial that all the public and private entities
collectively work on an effective contingency plan.
In Sri Lanka for this project, the following steps confirm the participatory approach among the stakeholders for the Y2K
remediation efforts:
i.    creation of the joint task force with its effective awareness program;
ii.   creation of a hotline in the CINTEC for public queries;
iii.   close collaboration among the CBSL, MOF, various business associations (bankers associations, vendors
associations, and others), and the joint task force; and
iv.    establishment of two PCUs to oversee the problem and provide assistance to the critical sectors.
III . Social Issues to be analyzed: Yes _   No  X
1. Types of social issues to be analyzed:
Gender          Ethnic Groups           Indigenous Peoples_
Poverty         Stakeholder Analysis_
Others:
IV. Participation (see Section 11.2)
2. Levels of Anticipated Participation
In the space provided below please indicate at what level the stakeholders checked in item 11 above will participate and at
what stage of the project cycle. The four levels of participation are: a) Information Sharing (IS): translation into local
languages and dissemination of written material using various   media, informational seminars, presentations and public
meetings; b) Consultation (Con): consultative meetings, field visits and interviews (at various stages of work); c)
Collaboration/lmplementation (Col): For joint decision-making: formation of joint committees with stakeholders
representatives; formation of joint working groups; task forces; joint work with user groups; intermediary organizations
and other stakeholders; support of new spontaneous initiatives by stakeholders; d) Empowerment (Emp): Investment in
building institutional capacity of stakeholders organizations; strengthening the financial and legal status of stakeholder
organizations; hand-over and self management by stakeholders; support for new, spontaneous initiatives by stakeholders.



Page 38
Social Data Sheet (continued)
Stakeholders                    Project Cycle                   What level of Participation
Private Sector                  Implementation                          Con./Col.
Government Agencies             Preparation/Implementation      Con./Col.
Banking Sector                  Preparation/Implementation      Con./Col.
3. CBOs: Community Based Organizations differ from NGOs because they are usually unregistered, their area of coverage is
limited to one locality and their operations serve the needs of their members.
V. Mitigation Planning
Type of Plan      Plan Needed         Date of       Number of      How many to    Amount of Land
Submission       People         be resettled      Acquisition
Affected                         (in hectares)
YES    NO
O.D. 4.30                   X
Involuntary
Resettlement
O.D. 4.20                   X
Indigenous
Peoples                                                      _                    .
Sector Loans: If not applicable please check: NA X
A. Involuntary Resettlement in Sector lending:          B. Strategies for Indigenous Peoples issues:
(i) Entitlements and procedures agreed (Yes or No)              (i) Participation process agreed (Yes or No)?
(ii) Institutional Arrangement agreed (Yes or No)               (ii) Institutional arrangement agreed (Yes or No)?
(iii) Funding agreed (Yes or No)?                               (iii) Funding agreed (Yes or No)?
C. Is there a strategy or a plan to retrofit potential involuntary resettlement problems?
Yes        No_X_
D. Other Mitigation Plans: None
Prepared by:        Hadian                Date: December 17, 1998
Task Leader, SASFP
Signed by:       Marilou Uy     7
SASFP Sector Unit Chief
cc: SASSD/Social Development Team (Upon completion)



Page 39
Annex 12: Environmental Data Sheet
Environmental Data Sheet for Projects
In the IBRDIIDA Lending Program
COUNTRY: Sn Lanka                                          PROJECT ID: LK-PE-63472
PROJECT: Year 2000 Emergency Assistance
APPRAISAL DATE: November 1-13, 1998                         IBRD AMOUNT (Sm):
BOARD DATE: January 21, 1999                               IDA AMOUNT (Sm): US$ 29 milrnon
MANAGING DIVISION: SASFP                                   SECTOR: Urban (Yes)
LENDING INSTRUMENTS: Technical Assistance                  STATUS: Lending (TA)
DATE (est) FOR RECEIPT Of EA BY BANK (Category A Projects):    (Receipt Date}
EA CATEGORY: C                                             DATE ASSIGNED:
DATE DATA SHEET PREPAREDIUPDATED: 12V161998
MAJOR PROJECT COMPONENTS: To assist the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL), on an urgent basis, in its efforts
to prevent possible business disruption in the country's economic and financial sectors as a resuk of the Year 2000
(Y2K) problem. The project will focus on assisting the country's banking sector and selected critical govermnment
agencies to adopt and implement a well defined contingency-based sutategic plan for Y2K compliance. The main
categories are:
1. Banking Sector Component of USS 21 million
2. Government Agencies Component of USS 8 million
MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES: None
OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES: None
PROPOSED ACTIONS: None
JUSTIFICATION/RATIONALE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY: This project focuses on the year 2000
remediation activities in the banking sector and crifical govemment institutfons. It will mainly deal wih
computer related technical issues and project management No environmental issues or hazards are
expected from these activities.
REPORTING SCHEDULE:
Category X
Category B:
REMARKS: The Environmental Assessment category for this project is C, with no environmental issues.
Signature                                       Signature
And Date: .e                                    and Date:        /                I,
Marilou Uy       v                               RichanMded/cker             /
Sector Manager, SAYFP                           Sector Manager, SASEN  t 
Initials                                        lnitia
And Date: _       ___                           and Date:
Shideh Hadian                                    (name) R'S'NV1 &of4'
Task Leader, SASFP                              SASEN Contact



Page 40
Annex 13
A Strategic Approach to Y2K Problems in the Sri Lanka Banking Sector
Contents:
I: Introduction
II: General Strategy
A: National Strategy
B: Sectoral Strategy
C: Institutional Strategy
1-7: Components of Institutional Strategy
I: Introduction
The possible failure of banking institutions to respond adequately to the Year 2000 Problem
represents a major source of vulnerability to economies facing the Y2K crisis. This is due to
the extent to which banking functions rely on date-related information technology data and, in
turn, the extent to which the financial sector is a keystone of the national economy. Adequate
institutional response is therefore imperative.
This high severity of outcome is multiplied by a likelihood of failure that increases daily.
Financial institutions have been working on this issue for years, and are still not fully prepared.
In the United States, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency initiated activity in the area
of Y2K remediation and supervision in June 1996; as of October 1998 the problem is well
understood and appropriate actions are taking place, however there is still considerable concern
that the United States financial sector will not be completely prepared for the millennium.
Given the parameters - limited resources, limited time, unchangeable deadline -complete
remediation by January 1, 2000 is not possible for all institutions or all countries. Risk
avoidance strategies must be complemented by risk mitigation and contingency measures.
While recognizing the importance of preventing any disruptions in financial and banking
activities, a substantial emphasis should be placed upon contingency planning in appreciation
of the fact that not all systems will be Y2K compliant by the deadline.
Based upon reports we have received, the Sri Lanka Central Bank has initiated the task of Y2K
management. This document outlines a systematic approach to Y2K problems in the banking
sector. The issues raised here do not conflict with the position or the actions of the Sri Lankan
government; rather, this document is meant to reinforce most current efforts, and highlight
some issues that warrant extra attention.
The information presented here draws on best practices and recommendations from the
most useful and reliable sources available. The principal sources for this information are:
The Global 2000 Coordinating Group; The Joint Year 2000 Council (Bank for International
Settlements); InfoDev (The World Bank); and several United States regulatory agencies.
II: General Strategy
A general Y2K strategy should be undertaken on three levels:  national, sectoral and
institutional.



Page 41
A. National Strategy
National governments should adopt a Year 2000 National Action Plan to tackle the problem as
a structured and coordinated effort to ensure a mitigation of the problem in the shortest amount
of time. In addition, the government should implement the National Plan with regards to its
emergency aspect by giving the Plan priority on a country-wide basis as well as providing
resources for reducing the risk to the extent possible.
Sri Lanka has initiated efforts on the national level through the establishment of the task Force
on Year 2000 Compliance. The Task Force has representatives from across the various sectors,
and there are sub-teams dedicated to each sector. The extent of their activities will need to be
investigated during this mission.
B. Sectoral Strategy
The central bank and key financial regulators should take the lead role in strategy development
and implementation to deal effectively with associated risks.  While responsibility for
compliance lies with individual institutions, central banks are taking the forefront in promoting
and supervising the process.  The central bank should ensure that its own systems (see
"Institutional Strategy" below) and those of the institutions reporting to it respond adequately.
This effort requires intensive management, witit ownership at tile highiest levels and with the
participation of senior line management, IT staff, and the supervisory function. A sectoral
strategy for the banking sector should include the following:
* Monitoring and oversight of Y2K remediation by individual institutions in the sector
* Coordination with national Y2K remediation bodies, with interdependent institutions in
other sectors (power, telecommunications), and with other financial institutions.
* Testing of shared and interdependent systems; this requires defining and managing
processes of inter-organization testing for all domestic and international payment streams.
* Communication with external groups such as industry bodies, media and the government
on Year 2000 related matters effecting the banking community, its customers and its
shareholders.  Raising the awareness of business partners and customers, increasing
community awareness on Year 2000 issues and in particular the effects directly or indirectly
related to business continuity beyond the Year 2000
* Contingency planning. Contingency planning is a dynamic process of risk identification, risk
mitigation and crisis response that takes place at all levels of organization. The central bank
should establish a process for rapidly and effectively addressing Y2K risks and should ensure that
adequate processes are established within reporting institutions.
C. Institutional Strategy
Each institution, including the central bank, should be responsible for ensuring the compliance
of its own systems. This involves a great number of tasks, and the requisite allocation of
human and financial resources. The effort therefore hinges to a great deal on effective project
management. Different organizations have organized the many tasks in various ways. The
structure used here is that of the Joint Year 2000 Council, a body created by the Bank for
International Settlements, and draws heavily on the practices of the Australian Year 2000
Interbank Working Group. For the purposes of management, the Council organizes program
tasks into seven activities:
2



Page 42
1.    Develop a strategic approach
2.    Contingency planning
3.    Create organizational awareness
4.    Assess actions and develop detailed plans
5.    Renovate systems, applications and equipment
6.    Validate the renovation through testing
7.    Implement tested, compliant systems
More detailed descriptions of each of the seven activities are listed in the following pages.
1: Develop a Strategic Approach
+ Appoint senior-level management; have a well-defined program with clear accountability
* Recognize Y2K as a business issue, not merely a technical issue, and creating a strategy
that links technical and business priorities
* Delegate responsibility for co-ordination and communication with partner and parent
institutions
* Maintain appropriate tracking and oversight for the purposes of risk management
* Ensure the right level of technical and managerial skill are available to complete each task
* Ensure clear delegation of responsibility for technical, operational, and business line
aspects of Y2K remediation
2: Contingency Planning
* Set up a governance structure for risk management; the governance structure should not be
different or independent from the existing Year 2000 Project governance structure found in
the departments
* Identify risks, including those beyond the institution's control
* Analyze risks in light of continuing core business functions
* Develop risk action and contingency plans; plans must include trigger dates and delegation
of responsibility
* Track risks in order to continuously monitor new or expiring exposures to business
interruptions
* Control risks by identifying risks as they present themselves, escalating authority to the
appropriate governance structure and responding with appropriate measures
3: Create Organizational Awareness
* Define the Year 2000 problem and its potential impact on the enterprise
* Conduct Year 2000 awareness campaign
* Assess the adequacy of the agency's program management capabilities
* Develop Year 2000 strategy
* Identify technical and management contacts in core business areas
* Ensure awareness of compliance benchmarks in each jurisdiction in which it operates
3



Page 43
4: Assess Actions and Develop Detailed Plans
*  Define Year 2000 compliance
*  Focus on core business areas and processes and develop a Year 2000 assessment document
*  Assess the severity of an impact of Year 2000-induced failures
*  Conduct enterprise-wide inventory of all systems (including hardware and software) for
each business area
*  Develop a comprehensive automated system portfolio
*  Analyze system portfolio
*  Prioritize systems and components to be converted or replaced
*  Establish Year 2000 project teams for business areas and major systems
+  Develop Year 2000 program plan
*  Identify, prioritize, and mobilize needed resources
*  Develop validation strategies, testing plans, and scripts
*  Define requirements for Year 2000 test facility
.  Identify and acquire Year 2000 tools
*  Address implementation schedule issues
*  Address interface and data exchange issues
*  Initiate the development of contingency plans for mission-critical systems
*  Identify Year 2000 vulnerable systems and processes operating outside the information
resource management area
5: Renovate Systems, Applications and Equipment
*  Convert selected applications, databases, archives, and related system components
*  Develop data bridges and filters
*  Document code and system changes
*  Schedule unit, integration, and system tests
* Communicate changes to information systems to intemnal and external users
+  Track conversion and replacement process, collect project metrics
* Share information among Year 2000 projects, including lessons learned and best practices
6: Validate the Renovation through Testing
+  Develop and document test and compliance plans and schedules
*  Develop strategy for managing the testing of contractor-converted systems
*  Implement Year 2000 test facility
*  Implement automated test tools and test scripts
*  Perform unit, integration, and system testing
*  Define, collect, and use test metrics to manage the testing and validation process
+  Initiate acceptance testing
4



Page 44
7: Implement Tested, Compliant Systens
*  Replace selected applications and related system components
*  Define transition environment and procedures
*  Develop implementation schedule
* Resolve data exchange issues and interagency concerns
4  Deal with database and archive conversion
*  Complete acceptance testing
*  Implement contingency plans
*  Update or develop disaster recover plans
*  Implement converted and replaced systems
The Central Bank strategy study, Year 2000 Compliance of the Banking and Financial Sector,
outlines the Central Bank's approach for institutional Y2K remediation. This document
describes a strategy of 8 components.  These 8 components follow  the seven steps
recommended by the Joint Year 2000 Task Force'. The 8 components are as follows:
Develop a Strategic Approach            1. Appoint Task Force
Create Organizational Awareness
Assess Actions and Develop Detailed    2. Inventory all systems and identify
Plans                                    systems that may be impacted by
Y2K
3. Prioritize mission-critical systems for
replacement
4. Detennine corrective measures, time
frames, resources to be allocated
Renovate Systems, Applications and     5. Implement corrective measures
Equipment
Validate the Renovation through        6. Test systems for compliance
Testing                                7. Confirm compliance of all mission-
critical systems
Implement Tested, Compliant Systems
Contingency Planning                   8. Establish contingency plans for
mission-critical systems not validated
1 Joint Year 2000 Task Force, 'Supervisory Guidance on the Independent Assessment of Financial Institution Year
2000 Compliance", The Bank for Intemational Settlements, June 1998
5



MAP SECTION



10-                                                                            BI                                                                              I  lo-
__pn                                                                           81                                                                              8
SRI LANKA
-f          7  -       Xo                                                                           0       TOWNS
@  PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
Kill   clii              r                                  1                                  _ MAIN ROADS
/ i  \   L  v  >                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
A  - --    - -                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
%   !   elevm   \    \ .  NORTHERN  MuS o0u                               WATER CONVEYING TUNNELS
, ,                        PROY'JN-0E                                                               RESERVOIRS
--------                        PR             E                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ---   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
;                                                        -: -          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
p  A  -                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALTITUDE IN METERS
X kan                      t 5                (  A t f . 0100
i  <             A       >--1   C9\--             KW 6    9       W tlo
KILOMETERS
A8                                C E N T P. A                                                                                       I       A /    '!
A n 4                   2DF(ROVINCE / V                           S 
: NFS hch6iyogom g t  i  ,  L ~ I // ~ n < ?e-ARW
'b *td-S                                                                                                                             TiAA to AY '
>, o X MF T_,X / S O~~~~ G. kiry;gma/ .-8
NI  T                                                                          K                                                   ,y    itDEdli^ R <_fS   It 
A]                                     'Ad t>A~A  eA?n.AA.oEA.                 z
,_______                             ________________                          P        R        _______ .........,.,_     r                                                         ol
NCE'                      S            )      ;              t/ ,   0                          \i       0                       Yrl.lb        0;0t    1
/; $         3       t                          E9aaul30\; ;|                0(                      0t :0 0PO00i 0;(  
t   r4 <,                    - t        E     W     b   nL    7    5XtS    StX  S   1     1<                       (        1     :K.  - 
COLOMEO fDs C EEi E; )t & $K
z72N  _ 80>_kT7:.iWFaE;L~Ly1  >Mned4;; 
tN  ?fQ-Fi! mmgD. E:/i:::\\/*
PR                                           iD          S       g s0              9            /                           0el;;;00A
,,  /t             E  ~~                     ~~SA<                  .J          uP VICE\                                            ; ;; 
sour            '        .                     _.'                             '      y           Mt                                 ,
PROVINCE '                  .                ;         <       .\        |                                       ;  
X g * _* # >, .: < temb~~~~~ilipiti                  )
X   ,  s   5 o u r H E Ri\s 0  7 T H
< . i 8 _t ~~~~~~~R OVt C  Habntt
G alro   0  Q   y   <                                               rDomervosvrJdze dArbMorDesignunitofibey6 dD ni ~~~~~~6' - %
bL ruL~ok/                e 
_ ____ ~~Mata a_tsacp bcof l b n m -  n_b



