Report No. PID7254
Project Name                     Sri Lanka-Year 2000 Emergency Assistance...
Project
Region                           South Asia Region
Sector                           Finance and Private Sector Development
Project ID                       LKPE63472
Borrower                         Government of Sri Lanka
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and Planning
Contact: Mr. Faiz Mohideen, Director General
External Resource Department, Ministry of
Finance and Planning
Address: Secretariat, Colombo 1, Sri Lanka
Telephone: 94-1-434876
Fax:        94-1-447633
Date of this PID                 January 12, 1999
RVP Approval                     December 28, 1998
Board Date                       January 19, 1999
Sector Issues. The Y2K problem has attracted increasing attention worldwide
as the passage into the new millennium approaches rapidly. The Y2K problem
results from the fact that most business application software programs written
over past 20-25 years use only two digits to specify the year, rather than
four. The two-digit date code is automatically assigned to the 20th century:
as "99" proceeds to "00" on January 1, 2000, the computer will incorrectly
understand the date change as "1900", not "2000."    These systems, unless
changed or corrected, will cause failure in arithmetic, comparisons, sorting,
and input/output to databases or files when manipulating date data. Almost
all computer-based systems which represent the year as a two-digit number will
be adversely affected by the arrival of the year 2000. In addition, the Y2K
problem threatens to impact "embedded systems", electronic hardware systems -
including everything from fax machines and elevators to telephone exchanges
and power generators - that utilize date functions built into microprocessor
controls. The bottom line is that, without proper attention, the consequences
of the Y2K problem can be costly and disruptive.
Project Objectives. To assist the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL), on an
urgent basis, in its efforts to prevent possible business disruption in the
country's economic and financial sectors as a result of the Year 2000 (Y2K)
problem. The project will focus on assisting the country's banking sector and
selected critical government agencies to adopt and implement a well defined
contingency-based strategic plan for Y2K compliance.
Project Description. The proposed IDA credit would be in the amount of SDR
21.0 million (US$29.0 million equivalent). The proposed project has two main
components:



I.   Financial Sector Component   - The total allocation for this component is
US$21.0 million equivalent which will be utilized by the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka (CBSL) as follows.
I (a) - A Credit Component of US$20.0 million will be used for onlending,
through CBSL, to the public banks, some private banks, and selected finance
companies for their eligible Y2K related expenditures including the cost of
consultants and equipment. These sub-loans will be provided to the banks at a
rate similar to their cost of funds, that is the Average Weighted Deposit Rate
(AWDR). This is the weighted average of interest paid to depositors by all
commercial banks on interest bearing deposits, as calculated and issued
monthly by CBSL. The applicable interest rate will be a rolling 6 months
AWDR. The maturity of the sub-loans will not be more than 10 years inclusive
of a grace period of two years. The sub-loans will finance up to 80 percent
of the cost of the banks' Y2K remediation activities for the public banks and
up to 60 percent for the private commercial banks and finance companies. The
Central Bank will borrow the proceeds allocated for the credit component from
the GOSL at the rate of AWDR minus one percent, with a maturity of 10 years
inclusive of 2 years grace period.
I (b) - A Technical Assistance (TA) Component of US$1.0 million for CBSL's
Project Coordinating Unit to conduct its scaled-up Y2K monitoring and
supervision of the banks. The project will facilitate the CBSL's regulatory
enforcement by providing the banks with necessary technical and financial
assistance.
II.   Government Agencies Component - The TA will finance the cost of required
equipment and experts for various technical tasks, and short-term staff
training programs in the concerned institutions.
II (a) - Project Coordination - A US$0.5 million will be allocated for setting
up a Project Coordinating Unit in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). This unit
will closely monitor the concerned agencies and provide assistance in planning
and implementation of their Y2K remediation activities.
II (b) - Y2K Remediation Sub-projects - This component of US$7.5 million will,
in part, finance the needs of Y2K activities in critical public sectors such
as Inland Revenue Department, Sri Lanka Customs, Census and Statistics
Department, the Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation, and other public
administration agencies.
Project Financing.
Financing Plan           Local           Foreign             Total
(US$ million)       (US$ million)
GOSL                     0.3             0.2                      0.5
IDA                      5.3             23.7
29.0
Sponsors                 6.5             2.0                       8.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST      12.1            25.9                      38.0
-2-



Project Implementation. The Y2K project will be managed by the CBSL for the
banking sector and by MOF for the public agencies. There will be two Project
Coordinating Units (PCUs), one in each institution.
PCU of the CBSL - A PCU, headed by an executive director of Central Bank,
will be responsible for implementation of the project and for periodic
monitoring of the Y2K remediation efforts in the banking sector. The Central
Bank's bank supervision and information technology (IT) departments will share
the responsibility of managing the Y2K activities. The PCU will consist of a
team of Central Bank examiners or supervisors and information technology
specialists. Two specialized committees will be established for evaluation,
monitoring, and administration of the entire program for the banking sector.
A Y2K Sub-Loan Evaluation Committee will be in charge of the technical
evaluation of the sub-loan applications, including assessment of eligibility
for the sub-loans. A Supervision Committee will be responsible for close
monitoring and supervision of the banks' Y2K programs. Both committees should
be staffed by people from the IT and banking supervision departments. This
PCU will report to the Governor of CBSL and the World Bank on the status of
Y2K project on monthly basis.
PCU of the MOF. While each individual institution is responsible for its own
Y2K program, the MOF needs to take the lead in ensuring that the critical
businesses will be Y2K ready. A PCU will be created in the MOF headed by a
senior officer and staffed by IT experts. This PCU should closely and
regularly liaise with the Y2K coordinators from each institution and will be
responsible for reviewing, assessing, and close monitoring the Y2K projects in
the concerned agencies. It will report to the Deputy Secretary of the
Treasury and the World Bank on monthly basis.
Project Sustainability. In the context of Y2K projects, sustainability can be
viewed as the business continuity of the institutions after the year 2000. In
addition, the Y2K remediation and systems upgrading should be viewed as
institutional development, the impact of which will lead to continued and
improved business operations in the coming years.
Lessons learned from previous Bank experience. No similar project has been
financed by the World Bank Group from which lessons can be drawn. Lessons
drawn from institutions that have already started on remediation efforts and
from many reliable sources on Y2K issues, indicate that effective project
management and adoption of a contingency-based remediation plan are key
elements for successful Y2K compliance. The management of this project is
based, to the extent possible, on international best practices. The project
has focused objectives and scope, is demand-driven, and is an emergency
assistance program. Other such emergency operations indicate that for
managing and implementation of the project, there is a need for sufficient
flexibility to react to unforeseen circumstances and for centralized decision-
making, planning, and monitoring by high-level authorities.
Poverty Category. Not Applicable
Environmental Assessment. Category C
- 3-



Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Shideh Hadian, TM
Telephone (202) 458-2666
Fax:           (202) 522-1775
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 15, 1999.
- 4 -



