Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3162 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Year 2000 Emergency Assistance Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 22, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3162 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 1999, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI 
LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CBSL” means the Central Bank of Sri Lanka established under the Act;
Page  2
(b)
“Act” means the Monetary Law Act 58 of 1949 establishing CBSL;
(c)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CBSL pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by CBSL out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project; (e)
“Investment Enterprise” means an enterprise to which CBSL proposes to make or has made 
a Subloan, and “Public Investment Enterprises” means state-owned banks; and “Private 
Investment Enterprises” means privately owned and operated domestic banks, as well as 
specialized institutions and finance companies licensed by CBSL;
(f)
“Investment Project” means a specific project addressing Y2K activities 
to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
(g)
“Y2K Activities” means any activities to address and remedy the problems 
associated with the year 2000 possible computer malfunction;
(h)
“AWDR” means the Average Weighted Deposit Rate, namely the weighted 
average of the interest rate paid to depositors by all commercial banks on all 
interest-bearing deposits, as calculated and issued monthly by the CBSL;
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(j)
“Rs” and “rupees” mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 21,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) in 
respect of Part A.1 of the Project, amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) by CBSL on account of withdrawals made by an Investment 
Enterprise under a Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account 
is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for  Parts A.2 
and B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in CBSL on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
Page  3
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing  July 15, 2009 and ending January 15, 2039.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2019 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
Page  4
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit, 
allocated from time to time to Category 1 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to CBSL under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and CBSL, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association, which shall include, inter alia, those set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to monitor the progress of the Project and of each Investment 
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible 
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)  sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. Without limitation to the generality of Sections 4.01 hereof, the 
Borrower shall or shall cause CBSL to: (a) appoint by April 1, 1999, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, a qualified private firm as an independent 
auditor during the implementation of the Project to carry out audits referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; (b) cause the auditor referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section to prepare semi-annual audit reports, and furnish these reports to 
the Association as soon as available, but in any case no later than two months after 
the end of each semester; (c) exchange views with the Association on the progress of 
the Project based on the audit reports prepared pursuant to paragraph (b) of this 
Section within thirty days after receipt of each such report; and (d) conduct a post 
completion audit review of the Project and furnish to the Association a report of this 
review as soon as available, but no later than three months after the completion of 
the Project.
ARTICLE V
Page  6
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
CBSL  shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that CBSL will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)
The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CBSL to perform any of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and CBSL.  
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CBSL and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and CBSL in accordance with its terms.  
Section 6.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Director General, External Resources 
Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Cable address:
Telex:
SECMINFIN
              FINMIN 21409
Colombo
FORAID 21232
Page  7
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
  OF SRI LANKA
By  /s/  Warnasena Rasaputram 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/  Mieko Nishimizu 
Regional Vice President 
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subloans for 
  13,400,000
80% for Public
Part A.1 of the
Investment Enterprises
Project
and 60% for Private
Investment Enterprises
(2)
Goods for
   1,810,000
100% of foreign
Parts A.2 and
expenditures,
B of the Project
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
   3,550,000
100% 
Page  8
services and
training for
Parts A.2 and
B of the Project
(4)
Incremental operating    110,000
80%
costs for Parts A.2
and B of the Project
(5)
Unallocated
  2,130,000
___________
          TOTAL
 21,000,000
 ========== 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means operation and maintenance 
costs of additional equipment, office space, incremental staff salaries and 
allowances, and administration and travel costs, incurred by the PCUs for the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 2,100,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after May 1, 1998.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for goods under contracts 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; (b) for training and incremental operating 
costs; and (c) for consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding the equivalent 
of $200,000 in the case of firms, and $100,000 in the case of individuals, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to prevent 
business disruption in the country’s economic and financial sectors as a result of the 
Year 2000 problem.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Financial Sector
1.
The financing of specific Investment Projects through the provision by CBSL of 
Subloans to Investment Enterprises.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to CBSL to conduct Y2K activities monitoring 
and supervision of the Investment Enterprises.
Part B:
Government Agencies
1.
Provision of funds, equipment and technical assistance for the establishment of 
a Project Coordinating Unit in the Ministry of Finance.
Page  9
2.
Provision of funds, equipment and technical assistance to support Y2K activities 
in critical government agencies.
*         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
1.
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and 
the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered 
as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
2.     With respect to Part A.1 of the Project, the words “the Association may, by 
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit 
shall be cancelled” set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following 
is substituted therefor:
“or (e) by the date specified in subparagraph 3 (b) of Part B of Schedule 
4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Association shall, in respect of any 
portion of the 
Credit: (i) have received no applications under subparagraph 
(a) of said paragraph; or (ii) 
have denied any such applications the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to submit such 
applications or to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, as the case may be, with 
respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the 
giving of such notice, 
such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled.”
SCHEDULE 4
Investment Projects and Subloans
Part A:
Investment Projects
1.     Financing of Investment Projects
(a)
For the purposes of financing Investment Projects, the Borrower shall 
relend to CBSL part of the proceeds of the Credit under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions which 
shall include, inter alia: (i) an interest rate of AWDR-1 percent per annum; (ii) a 
maturity of ten years, including a grace period of two years; and (iii) foreign 
exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.
(b)
CBSL shall provide financing for each Investment Project, including the 
Subloan approved for such Investment Project, in amounts not to exceed (i) 80 percent 
for Public Investment Enterprises; and (ii) 60 percent for Private Investment 
Enterprises of the total cost of such Investment Project on terms and conditions, 
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in Part B of this Schedule.
2.
Evaluation and Approval Criteria for Investment Projects
The Borrower shall cause CBSL not to make any Subloan unless the Borrower and 
the Association are satisfied that:
(a)
the Investment Project meets the Borrower’s priority plan for Y2K 
activities; 
Page  10
(b)  
the Investment Project is technically viable; and 
      (c)
the Investment Enterprise uses proven technology.
Part B:
Subloans
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the terms and conditions of 
each Subloan shall include:
(a)
Interest rate – AWDR;
(b)    Maturities up to 10 years, with a maximum grace period of 2 years; and
(c)
Subloans to be made in Rupees. 2. No expenditures for goods required for 
an Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit unless the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Association or, if the Association shall so agree, shall have been approved by CBSL on 
behalf of the Association, and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 
ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the 
application and information required under paragraph 3 (a) of Part B of this Schedule 
in respect of such Subloan.  This provision does not apply to expenditures made prior 
to the date of this Agreement to be reimbursed under paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 
hereof.
3.
(a)    The Borrower shall cause CBSL to furnish to the Association an 
application, in form satisfactory to the Association together with (i) a description 
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule 
of amortization of the Subloan; and (iii) such other information as the Association 
shall reasonably request.
(b)
Applications made pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph shall be presented to the Association on or before September 30, 1999.
4.     Subloans shall be made on terms whereby CBSL shall obtain, by written consent 
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of CBSL, the Borrower and the Association, including the right 
to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
environmental, financial, commercial, and managerial standards and to maintain 
adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and any relevant records and documents;  
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Borrower and the Association shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived 
from the Investment Project; and 
Page  11
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with CBSL.
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $1,500,000 equivalent per contract, and goods, 
which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, 
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National or International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract or less than 
$1,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$12,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national or international shopping procedures, respectively, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equivalent, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under limited international 
bidding, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under international shopping 
procedures estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and all contracts 
procured under direct contracting, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
Page  12
under 
international shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract as 
well as evidence of meeting the 
requirements set forth in 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II.  
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  13
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain and operate, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, two 
Project Coordinating Units (PCUs), one in CBSL for purposes of Part A of the Project, 
and the other in the Ministry of Finance for purposes of Part B of the Project; and 
(b) 
cause the PCUs to submit to the Association monthly reports on the 
progress of their respective parts of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain and operate, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, a Y2K Tender Committee to review the applications for Y2K related 
procurement in a speedy manner.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
Page  14
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August 31, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by October 15, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 7,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
Page  15
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  16
