Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H333-MAI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(First Poverty Reduction Strategy Grant Development Policy Lending) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 15, 2007 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H333-MAI 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated November 15, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia
,
of:  
(a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement.
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to thirteen million, one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,100,000) (variously,
 “Grant” and 
“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation 
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will 
be carried out. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister for Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 30049 
Capital City 
Lilongwe 3 
Malawi 
Cable:  
Telex:  
Facsimile: 
FINANCE 44407 
MI  265-1-789173 
Lilongwe 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Lilongwe, Republic of Malawi, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
By /s/ Goodall E. Gondwe 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Timothy R. Gilbo 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The Recipient has undertaken actions under the Program 
that are satisfactory to the Association, that include the following: 
(a)  establishment of three (3) satellite auction floors for tobacco marketing, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 19 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
(b) strategic re-focusing of the operations of ADMARC by divesting Non-Core Business 
Assets, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 17 of the Letter of 
Development Policy. 
(c) implementation of its fertilizer subsidy program, with at least twenty-eight percent 
(28%) of the fertilizer subsidies being distributed through private sector entities, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 20 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
(d) establishment and operationalization of a commercial division within its High Court, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 25 of the Letter of Development 
Policy. 
(e) recruitment and deployment of twenty-four (24) District land officers and fifty-five 
(55) land clerks, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 22 of the Letter of 
Development Policy. 
(f)  reconciliation of payroll and personnel data records for its civil service, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 30 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
(g) financial audits for Fiscal Year 2004/05 of Selected Central Government Institutions, 
representing at least fifty percent (50%) of its budgetary outlay, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 34 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General.
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  7
6
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
                       13,100,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
_________
13,100,000
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon the deposit of the amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures.
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that 
an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“ADMARC” means the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation, a 
company incorporated under the Companies Act, Chapter 46:03 of the laws of the 
Recipient, and includes any successor thereto. 
2. 
“District” means a local government area established pursuant to the Local Government 
Act, Chapter 22:01 of the laws of the Recipient. 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Page  9
8
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
Page  10
9
(f)  
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient  
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
4. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year which commences on July 1 of each 
calendar year and ends on June 30 of the following calendar year. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) 
with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
6. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter from the Recipient to the Association 
dated August 15, 2007, declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, 
and requesting financial assistance from the Association for its execution. 
7. 
“Non-Core Business Assets” means all of the issued and outstanding shares in the capital 
stock of Manica (Malawi) Limited; Clark Cotton (Malawi) Limited; Alexander Forbes (Malawi) 
Limited; and Sugar Corporation of Malawi Limited, registered in the name of, or beneficially 
owned by, the ADMARC Investment Holding Company Limited. 
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve a sustainable reduction in poverty set forth or referred to in the Letter of 
Development Policy, declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting financial assistance from the Association for its execution. 
9. 
“Selected Central Government Institutions” means, collectively, the following ministries 
and departments of the Recipient: Office of the President and Cabinet; Ministry of Defence; 
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development; Ministry of Local Government; Ministry of 
Lands; Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Water Development; Ministry of Education; Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs; Ministry of Health; Ministry of Gender; Ministry of Information; Ministry of 
Justice; Ministry of Transport and Public Works; Ministry of Forestry; Ministry of Finance; the 
Police; Public Debt (Debt and Aid); Pensions (Accountant General); National Assembly; Human 
Resources; the Army; National Statistical Office; Local Government Authority; Accountant 
General; Malawi Revenue Authority; Electoral Commission; and Anti-Corruption Bureau. 
10. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  11
10 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
Page  12
11 
 
