Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3041 
Operation Name 
MW MGDS Budget Support (FY07) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (25%); General industry and trade sector 
(25%); Agricultural marketing and trade (25%); General public 
administration (25%) 
Project ID 
P099313 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
April 5, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 4, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 15, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Malawi has made significant progress in the past two years in restoring macroeconomic stability and 
winning back the confidence of donors. Since the current Government came into office in May 2004, it 
enforced strict fiscal discipline. The IMF and the Government agreed on a Staff Monitored Program 
(SMP) starting from July 2004.  Following strong performance in the implementation of the SMP, a new 
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) was approved in August 2005. Further, the Common 
Approach to Budget Support (CABS) donors resumed their assistance to Malawi. Performance under the 
first year of the new PRGF program has been strong.  The Government subsequently reached HIPC 
completion point in August 2006. 
A
case can be made for supporting Malawi’s policy and institutional reform programs through a Poverty 
Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). The preparation of its first PRSP reflected a highly participatory 
process that helped in identifying the key development challenges that faced the country and its 
implementation provided useful lessons on areas that are critical for Malawi to reduce poverty.  Apart 
from restoring macroeconomic stability, substantial reforms have also been undertaken to reduce 
corruption and strengthen public finance management. Notable governance-related reforms have 
included the amendment in 2004 of the Corrupt Practices Act of 1995, the development and 
operationalization of a new public procurement system that conforms to international standards, and the 
rolling out in 2005 (after a long period of failed attempts in the past) of the Integrated Financial 
Management Information System (IFMIS). The government is also continuing with the parastatal reform 
program that was started under the previous structural adjustment credit. In particular, Malawi 
Telecommunications Limited was privatized while ADMARC restructuring is on track. The country is 
now poised to accelerate its pace of growth and poverty reduction.   
In 2006 the government has finalized the preparation of a new PRSP, the Malawi Growth and 
Development Strategy, whose main focus in on accelerating growth as strategy for poverty reduction. 
The proposed PRSC aims to provide support to the government as it undertakes the necessary reforms 
for the successful implementation of the Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS). In 
particular, the PRSC will support policy changes that aim to create a conducive environment for 
enhanced private sector-led growth while ensuring that vulnerability to shocks is dealt with at household 
as well as national level. It is a programmatic development lending operation that will provide financing 
in single tranches on an annual basis, but in support of a program of reforms to be undertaken in the 
Page  2
medium-
term. It will also be the Bank’s instrument providing budget support to the Government within 
the context of the Common Approach to Budget Support (CABS) arrangement.
1
It is also envisaged that 
the PRSC will have a signaling effect in helping Malawi mobilize more resources that are critical to the 
successful implementation of the MGDS.  
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed PRSC aims to achieve three main objectives: Firstly, the PRSC will support the 
implementation of the MGDS through financial assistance for undertaking policy and institutional 
changes.  Secondly, it will provide a framework for harmonizing Bank support for policy and 
institutional changes with other development partners.  As already indicated, the PRSC will be part of a 
larger program within the context of the Common Approach to Budget Support (CABS) group.  Lastly, 
it will be an instrument for providing predictable financial support to the budget.  
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed First Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC I) to the Republic of Malawi is the first in 
a
series of four annual development policy lending (DPL) operations to assist the Government’s reform 
program in support of the Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS).  The PRSC will assist 
the Government to implement policy and institutional changes to: (i) maintain and deepen macro 
stability; (ii) improve Malawi’s institutional infrastructure to maintain fiscal discipline; (iii) improve the 
impact growth has on poverty reduction; and (iv) improve the overall business environment. In addition, 
the financial resources themselves will reduce the need for additional domestic borrowing that would 
further crowd out resources available for investments by the private sector and as a consequence also 
negatively affect interest rates. 
 
The proposed PRSC I selectively supports the reform efforts by the GoM in the following areas (i) 
functioning of agricultural markets with a focus on the establishment of additional auction floors for 
agricultural products, and having in place a better targeted and more private sector inclusive system of 
providing fertilizers and seeds to farmers; (ii) business environment with an initial emphasis on the 
business licensing regime; (iii) vulnerability to shocks with a focus on ensuring that the social protection 
unit is appropriately staffed for the tasks it is expected to undertake; and  (iv) economic governance with 
a
focus on reforms that improve payroll management and external financial accountability of the GoM. 
The proposed operation is part of a joint effort by cooperating partners in Malawi to provide predictable 
and performance related budget support to GoM.  As a result the proposed measures are part of joint 
Performance Assessment Framework agreed between the IDA, GoM and cooperating partners.  While 
the PRSC operations together with the contribution by the other CABS donors will provide financial 
support for the implementation of the MGDS, each operation will disburse against specific prior actions 
as identified in the PAF. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
None 
 
5. Tentative financing 
1
A
new framework for budget support has been developed under the leadership of the Government of Malawi (GoM) with 
six participating donors, including IDA.  The current other members of the Common Approach to Budget Support (CABS) 
are the European Union, Commission, United Kingdom (DFID), African Development Bank, Norway and Sweden. The 
UNDP, IMF and Germany (GTZ) have observer status. Ireland may also join the group in 2007.  The framework for the 
operation of the CABS comprises of a new multi-year Performance Assessment Framework (PAF), a revised Joint 
Framework Memorandum for CABS, and a review process aimed at reducing transaction cost for all parties involved.   
Page  3
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Antonio Nucifora 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5333+2371 / +258-21-482-371 
Fax: +258-21-492-893 
Email: anucifora@worldbank.org 
Location: Maputo, Mozambique (IBRD) 
Contact: Khwima Nthara 
Title: Economist 
Tel: 5394+3224 
Fax:  
Email: knthara@worldbank.org 
Location: Lilongwe, Malawi (IBRD) 
