Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3340 
Operation Name 
MW-PRSC-1 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (25%);General industry and trade sector 
(25%);Agricultural marketing and trade (25%);General public 
administration sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P099313 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
September 25, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 1, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
October 30, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Over view 
Malawi is a small country with population currently estimated at 12 million people and growing 
at an average of 2 percent per annum. Average income per capita is around US$160.
1
With gross 
domestic product (GDP) growth averaging below 3 percent this has translated into a modest 1 
percent increase in per capita incomes during 1996-2005.  Malawi also has relatively high 
inequality in income distribution, with a Gini coefficient of 0.38. The poverty headcount was 
measured at 54 percent in 2004/05 household survey, and has hardly changed since the previous 
household survey was undertaken in 1997/98. Social indicators are also very weak. The maternal 
mortality ratio is currently at 984 per 100,000 live births and is also one of the highest in the 
world.  Nationwide, a staggering 44 percent of preschoolers are stunted (of which 18 percent are 
severely stunted), irrespective of household income and level of caloric intake.  Adult literacy for 
males is 75 percent while that of females is only 54 percent. A third of the population still uses 
unsafe water. 
Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, but is very vulnerable to weather shocks. The sector 
accounts for more than 80 percent of Malawi’s export earnings, contributes 38 percent of GDP, 
and supports 85 percent of the population.  Smallholders make up about three quarters of 
agricultural production and are mostly engaged in rain-fed maize production.  The performance 
of the agricultural sector during the past decade has been highly erratic due to the impact of 
recurrent drought conditions, with the most recent droughts in 2001 and 2005.  Constrained by 
high real interest rates (around 30 percent in real terms between 2001 and 2003), the 
manufacturing sector which has averaged zero growth over the past decade, accounts for only 11 
percent of GDP, and is inward-oriented with only 14 percent of manufacturing output exported. 
1
National Accounts estimates have been revised in 2007.  However, revised estimates were not yet available at the 
time of writing, and therefore all National Accounts figures in this document are based on the old national account 
series.  It should be pointed out, however, that the preliminary estimates from the revised national accounts indicate 
that the level of GDP has been revised upwards with an average of around 38 percent.   
Page  2
There has been little diversification of the economy, and Malawi’s exports remain heavily 
concentrated in agriculture, leaving the economy vulnerable to fluctuations in agricultural 
commodity prices.  Malawi is landlocked and poorly integrated into the region, both in terms of 
trade and physical infrastructure.  Over recent years, Malawi’s export performance has lagged 
behind the performance of many other developing countries in the region.  Despite being a 
relatively open economy and having non-reciprocal trade preferences with the EU and the US, 
exports grew by only 2 percent in Malawi in the past 10 years (compared to 6.4 percent growth 
in world exports).  In addition, trade remains highly dependent upon a limited range of primary 
commodities (mainly semi-processed tobacco, tea, and sugar; tobacco alone accounts for around 
60 percent of exports), reflecting limited success in past Government policies to diversify the 
export base out of primary product exports.  
Recent economic developments 
Macroeconomic performance under the previous administration was mediocre, as a result of both 
weather shocks and weak public expenditure management.
 
Economic growth has been volatile 
and feeble, averaging only about 3 percent between 1996 and 2005.
2
Much of the poor economic 
performance has been due to muted smallholder agricultural production as a result of weather 
shocks. The impact of weather shocks on the economy has been compounded by weak public 
expenditure management, characterized by a series of large fiscal deficits between 1999 and 
2004.  Poor fiscal management resulted in high inflation, and a very rapid increase in domestic 
debt, which increased from less than 3 percent in 1999/00 to 25 percent of GDP in 2003/04. The 
high levels of domestic borrowing pushed up interest rates, which remained above 20 percent in 
real terms between 2000 and 2004.  Government borrowing also effectively ‘crowded out’ the 
funds for private investment in Malawi which dropped from 4.4 percent of GDP in 1999 to 1.5 
percent in 2003.  In addition, continued depreciation of the exchange rate over the past decade 
has increased the cost of key imports, such as fertilizer. 
The Government that came into office in May 2004 has taken rapid steps to improve the fiscal 
situation and pursue sustainable macroeconomic policies. The administration has enforced strict 
fiscal discipline since 2004/05, and has already established an uninterrupted three-year track 
record of good macroeconomic management.  Improved macroeconomic management has been 
reflected in good performance under the IMF programs since June 2004, and Malawi recently 
completed the third review of the PRGF program in March 2007.   
Reducing the domestic debt has been the cornerstone of the fiscal strategy embodied in the 
Government’s budgets over the past few years.  Having inherited a potentially unsustainable 
domestic debt spiral from the previous administration, the Government has managed to reverse 
the trend.  From a peak of 25 percent of GDP in 2003/04, domestic debt declined to 20 percent of 
GDP by end 2005/06, and is projected to fall to 14.8 percent by end June 2007.  This reduction 
has been achieved through a substantial fiscal adjustment effort, which has resulted in 
(underlying) primary surpluses, allowing the domestic debt stock to decrease rapidly in real 
terms.  
2
The combination of the increased amount of debt and the high interest rates meant that govern
ment’s domestic 
interest bill shot up to a massive 9.2 percent in 2003/04 (or 40 percent of revenues), thus compromising the 
government’s ability to allocate resources for critical poverty alleviating expenditures.   
Page  3
The rapid improvement in the (underlying) fiscal balance reflects a series of Government efforts 
to ensure sustainability of public finances. Firstly, increased tax revenues (from 14.1 percent of 
GDP in 2003/04 to 15.6 percent in 2005/06) by revising the tax system in 2005/06, to minimize 
any distortions and expand the tax base, as well as strengthening tax administration and 
enforcement; secondly, improvements in the ability to forecast the wage bill (which was a source 
of fiscal slippages during 2000-2004), by introducing a wage reform in 2004/05 to increase 
transparency and equity of the wage structure, coupled by improvements in the payroll 
management system; thirdly, controlling expenditures (from 30.9 percent of GDP 2003/04 to 
26.3 percent in 2005/06)
3
both by reducing non-priority expenditures, such as for State 
Residencies and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and by allowing increases in other goods and 
services in line with non-food inflation, rather than nominal GDP growth.   
The above measures reflect a strong political commitment to sustainable fiscal policies and 
enforcement of fiscal discipline.  In fact, while total revenues and grants increased by 30 percent 
during 2002/03 to 2006/07, total expenditures increased by only 14 percent. Expenditure 
increases have been on account of increase in wages and salaries, pensions and gratuities, 
spending on fertilizer subsidies, and development expenditure (both foreign and domestic).  
Consequently macroeconomic performance has rapidly improved over the past few years. An 
improved macroeconomic environment and good weather resulted in better than historical 
average GDP growth in 2004 when growth was at 5.1 percent and in 2006 when growth reached 
8.4 percent, partially as a rebound from the severe drought that hit Malawi in 2005 (limiting 
GDP growth at 1.9 percent);
4
and in 2007 growth is projected at 5.7 percent.  Inflation declined 
from 17 percent at end-February 2006 to 9 percent at end-March 2007.  With inflation and 
government borrowing declining, the Central Bank has gradually reduced the nominal discount 
rate from 45 percent in September 2003 to 17.5 percent in August 2007.  As interest rates have 
been declining, private investment has increased back to 3.7 percent of GDP in 2006.   
Malawi also reached the HIPC Completion Point in August 2006 and subsequently qualified for 
the MDRI.  This res
ulted in a decline of Malawi’s debt-to-exports ratio from 229 percent to 32 
percent.  The nominal exchange rate has remained fairly stable vis-à-vis the US dollar (at around 
MK 140 = USD 1), initially as a result of Central Bank interventions in 2005/06, and more 
recently reflecting a stronger real exchange rate (from HIPC completion point and MDRI debt 
relief). Gross foreign exchange reserves at the Central Bank remain very low, however, with 
import cover at 1.6 months of imports as of December 2006. 
 
In addition to poor fiscal performance and external shocks, economic growth has also been 
significantly hampered by the impact of HIV/AIDS.  The adult prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS in 
Malawi at the end of 2004 was estimated at 14.2 percent. Studies on the evolution of the 
epidemics estimate that by 2010, the number of people with HIV/AIDS may reach 2 million. In 
addition, life expectancy is expected to drop further from 38 to 35 during the next ten years.  
While the magnitude of the effect of the epidemic on GDP growth and per capita income differs 
3
These numbers are net of expenditures on the health SWAp, which is donor financed and enters as an increase in 
both expenditures and grants; and net of the maize imports for the 2005/06 food crisis, also largely financed by 
additional donor grants. 
4
As a result of the drought, national outpu
t
of maize, which is Malawi’s main staple crop, was 30 percent lower than 
in 2004. 
Page  4
in various studies depending on the model assumptions, there is strong consensus that the 
epidemic is having a significant adverse impact on growth and poverty.
5
Over the past few 
years, the Government has improved the institutional and policy framework to combat 
HIV/AIDS, by establishing the National Aids Commission (NAC), protecting financing for 
HIV/AIDS related activities, carrying out several information campaigns, and mainstreaming the 
HIV/AIDS strategy in all Ministries.  With funding from the three major international donors for 
HIV/AIDS (the Global Fund, PEPFAR and the World Bank), since 2005 the Government has 
also been implementing successfully a program to rapidly expand provision of ART.  The 
Government is now seeking to secure funding for this program beyond 2009/10.    
Macroeconomic outlook 
The medium-
term outlook is generally positive, provided that the Government’s macroeconomic 
program is maintained and progress is made in insulating the economy against weather risk.  The 
Government’s macroeconomic stabilization program, which is supported by an IMF PRGF 
program, provides a good basis for accelerated growth.  Annual output growth is projected to 
increase to approximately 5.5 percent over the near term, and to drop to 4.5 percent in the 
medium term (in line with the regional long term average).  Other macroeconomic variables are 
projected to improve as well.  After rising to around 15.5 percent in 2005, year-on-year inflation 
has been declining reaching 11 percent as of end-2006, and the annual average rate is projected 
to drop to around 7 percent in the medium term.  In line with the reduction in inflation, nominal 
interest rates have also been falling, with the latest reduction by the Central Bank in the Discount 
Rate from 25 percent to 20 percent in November 2006.  On the current account, the Government 
has affirmed its commitment to a flexible exchange rate policy, as required by the monetary 
framework and Malawi’s limited external reserves. The authorities are aiming to increase 
minimum external reserves from 1.5 months of import cover as of end-2006 to above 3 months 
in the medium-term. 
While these projections are in line with the growth rates achieved since 2004, they are rather 
optimistic when compared to the historical average referred to earlier, and taking into account 
the likely (negative) rebound from the two good harvests in 2006 and 2007.  The projections 
assume that GDP will recover from a prolonged period of poor performance, due to both a 
combination of an improved macroeconomic environment, which will reduce Government 
‘crowding out’ of private sector investment, and implementation of the Government’s policies to 
support agriculture, improve the business environment, and increase investments in 
infrastructure, in line with the MGDS.  The projections also assume that measures are 
implemented to insulate the economy from the debilitating impact of periodic drought.   
Reducing the domestic debt will remain at the center of the Government’s macroeconomic 
program.  The steady retirement of domestic public debt has been the cornerstone of the fiscal 
strategy embodied in the Government’s budgets since 2004/05, and is relaxing a very important 
constraint on growth, by reducing government crowding out of private investment.  As a result of 
the reduced public borrowing and the lower interest rates, private investment has already 
5
Most studies estimate that GDP growth is adversely impacted in the region of 1-2 percent per year, through lower 
labor productivity, lower public and private savings, and reduced capital formation, as public expenditures are 
diverted to meet growing health demands. 
Page  5
increased from a trough of 1.5 percent of GDP in 2003 to 3.7 percent of GDP in 2006, and a 
further increase is expected over the next few years.  The reduction in the domestic debt is 
assumed to continue steadily in the next few years.  In line with the Government’s fiscal strategy, 
the plans to shrink domestic debt to around 11.3 percent by end-June 2008.  The domestic debt is 
then projected to decrease to 8.6 percent in 2008/09, and 4.9 percent in 2009/10.  Most of the 
reduction will be achieved by maintaining fiscal discipline, thereby allowing a reduction in the 
real value of the domestic debt stock; the Government is also targeting a modest nominal 
repayment in the draft 2007/08 budget. Remaining on track with the fiscal stabilization program, 
underpinned by the IMF PRGF, therefore, will be a key requirement for future budget support 
disbursements. 
In addition to the improved macroeconomic environment, the reduction of interest payments on 
domestic debt, and the debt relief from the HIPC and MDRI initiatives, are generating much 
needed fiscal space which can be used to accelerate growth.  The domestic interest bill has 
already decreased by almost 4 percent of GDP over the past three years and, assuming the 
Government stays the course with its macroeconomic stabilization program, it is expected to 
reduce by a further 3 percent over the next three years. The authorities plan to use some of this 
fiscal space to enhance growth by focusing on sectors that are identified as key for medium-term 
growth in the MGDS.  It is envisaged that the driving force behind growth in the medium term 
will be increased smallholder agricultural productivity and agro-processing to meet domestic and 
foreign demand. This will partly depend on the ability to improve the functioning of agricultural 
input and output markets, which is supported by the PRSC program.   
In the long-term, apart from increased agricultural productivity, the MGDS indicates that sectors 
such as mining and tourism hold some potential, although detailed diagnostic work to ascertain 
the extent of this potential is required.  More generally, it is believed that given a conducive 
environment, these and other sectors will contribute more extensively to the economy. This will 
depend, however, on addressing constraints that the private sector faces when doing business in 
Malawi.  The proposed PRSC program will support reforms to address the relevant constraints.  
It should be noted that the projections assume the implementation of a much broader reform 
program of which the measures to be supported under the PRSC are only a part. They also 
assume the implementation of investment programs in various sectors, some which are still under 
preparation. 
It should also be highlighted that there are risks which could threaten the macroeconomic 
projections summarized above.  Political pressures on government spending and the country’s 
vulnerability to external shocks could easily derail the macroeconomic stabilization program.  
Continued fiscal discipline is required to achieve the planned reduction in domestic debt, but 
such discipline may become increasingly difficult to maintain for the current minority 
Government as it is heading into pre-election mode (for the 2009 presidential and parliamentary 
elections).  Also, the country’s vulnerability to external shocks can easily disrupt, or at least 
prolong, the adjustment period during which the country is paying an enormous interest burden.  
2. Operation Objectives 
 
Page  6
In 2006, the Government finalized the preparation of a new PRSP, the Malawi Growth and 
Development Strategy (MGDS), whose main focus is on accelerating growth as a strategy for 
poverty reduction.  The proposed First Poverty Reduction Support Grant (PRSC-1) to the 
Republic of Malawi is the first in a series of three annual development policy lending (DPL) 
operations to assist the Government’s reform program in support of the MGDS.  The PRSC will 
assist the Government to implement policy and institutional changes to: (i) maintain and deepen 
macro stability; (ii) improve Malawi’s institutional infrastructure to maintain fiscal discipline; 
(iii) improve the impact growth has on poverty reduction; and (iv) improve the overall business 
environment. In addition, the financial resources themselves will reduce the need for additional 
domestic borrowing that would further crowd out resources available for investments by the 
private sector and as a consequence also negatively affect interest rates. 
 
The proposed Grant is the first PRSC
6
to assist the reform program of the Government of Malawi 
(GoM) as it implements the MGDS.  The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report No. 
38326-MW) envisages that over a period of three years, there could be a series of three proposed 
annual Development Policy Credits. This Grant’s reform program selectively supports efforts by 
the Government in the following areas: (i) functioning of agricultural markets with a focus on the 
establishment of additional auction floors for agricultural products, and having in place a better 
targeted and more private sector inclusive system of providing fertilizers and seeds to farmers; 
(ii) improving the business environment through the establishment of a commercial court; (iii) 
economic governance with a focus on reforms that improve payroll management and external 
financial accountability of the GoM.  The operation draws on a new framework for budget 
support that has been developed under the leadership of the Government of Malawi (GoM) with 
six participating donors, including IDA.  It comprises of a new multi-year Performance 
Assessment Framework (PAF) and a review process aimed at reducing transaction costs for all 
parties involved. A revised joint memorandum of understanding is expected to be entered into 
shortly. 
 
The proposed PRSC program aims at contributing to the achievement of Malawi’s medium-term 
development objectives as outlined in the MGDS. In particular, it is designed to support the 
Government in pursuing a development strategy that aims at accelerating growth while at the 
same time ensuring that the vulnerable are adequately protected from shocks.  It is therefore 
hoped that at the end of the series, the support program will have contributed towards increased 
economic growth and poverty reduction by supporting implementation of policy and institutional 
reforms that will lead to increased agricultural productivity, increased private sector investment, 
improved household resilience to shocks, and sustained improvements in fiscal management. 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Malawi has made significant progress in the past three years in restoring macroeconomic 
stability and winning back the confidence of donors. Since the current Government came into 
office in May 2004, it enforced strict fiscal discipline. The IMF and the Government agreed on a 
Staff Monitored Program (SMP) starting from July 2004.  Following strong performance in the 
implementation of the SMP, a new Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) was 
6
The acronym PRSC is used in this document as a generic term for either an IDA Grant or Credit. The phrase 
“PRSC program” will be used to describe a series of PRSCs. 
Page  7
approved in August 2005, and performance under the program has been broadly satisfactory.  In 
2005, the CABS donors resumed their assistance to Malawi. The Government subsequently 
reached the HIPC completion point in August 2006. 
A
case c
an be made for supporting Malawi’s policy and institutional reform programs through a 
series of Poverty Reduction Support Operations. The preparation of its first PRSP reflected a 
highly participatory process that helped in identifying the key development challenges that faced 
the country and its implementation provided useful lessons on areas that are critical for Malawi 
to reduce poverty.  Apart from restoring macroeconomic stability, substantial reforms have also 
been undertaken to reduce corruption and strengthen public finance management. Notable 
governance-related reforms have included the replacement in 2003 of the Public Finance and 
Audit Act to provide separate Audit and Public Financial Management Acts, thus increasing the 
independence and scope of the audit function; amendments in 2004 of the Corrupt Practices Act 
of 1995, the development and operationalization of a new public procurement system through the 
introduction of new legislation and regulations that conform to international standards, and the 
rolling out in 2005 (after a long period of failed attempts in the past) of the Integrated Financial 
Management Information System (IFMIS). The Government is also continuing with the 
parastatal reform program that was started under the previous structural adjustment credit. In 
particular, Malawi Telecommunications Limited was privatized while ADMARC restructuring is 
ongoing. The country is now poised to accelerate its pace of growth and poverty reduction.   
The proposed PRSC program
7
aims to provide support to the Government as it undertakes the 
necessary reforms for the successful implementation of the MGDS. In particular, the PRSC will 
support policy changes that aim to create a conducive environment for enhanced private sector-
led growth while ensuring that vulnerability to shocks is dealt with at household as well as 
national level. It is a programmatic development lending operation that will provide financing in 
single tranches on an annual basis, in support of a program of reforms to be undertaken in the 
medium-term. It will be the Bank’s instrument for providing budget support to the Government 
within the context of the Common Approach to Budget Support (CABS) arrangement.
8
It is also 
envisaged that the PRSC program will have a signaling effect in helping Malawi mobilize more 
resources that are critical to the successful implementation of the MGDS.  
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
7
The acronym PRSC is used in this document as a generic term for either an IDA Grant or Credit. The phrase 
“PRSC program” will be used to describe a series of PRSCs. 
8
A
new framework for budget support has been developed under the leadership of the Government of Malawi 
(GoM) with six participating donors, including IDA.  The current other members of the Common Approach to 
Budget Support (CABS) are the European Union, Commission, United Kingdom (DFID), African Development 
Bank, Norway and Sweden. The UNDP, IMF and Germany (GTZ) have observer status. Ireland may also join the 
group in 2007.  The framework for the operation of the CABS comprises of a new multi-year Performance 
Assessment Framework (PAF), a revised Joint Framework Memorandum for CABS, and a review process aimed at 
reducing transaction cost for all parties involved.   
Page  8
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The institutional arrangements for the preparation and execution of the PRSC fall within the 
framework of the CABS. On the Government side, the CABS group is served by a secretariat 
which is situated in the Debt and Aid Division of the Ministry of Finance. The secretariat 
coordinates preparation of the PAF, implementation, assessment and revision. For these 
activities, the secretariat mobilizes the relevant people in various ministries and departments. 
These are organized into thematic groups based on the areas covered by the PAF. 
 
The program will be monitored and evaluated through the CABS review cycle. As mentioned 
earlier, the CABS group undertakes two annual reviews, one during February-March and another 
during August-September. Apart from looking at the annual budget that will have just been 
approved by Parliament, the August-September review also undertakes a preliminary assessment 
of the progress made and likelihood of meeting the targets in the PAF. The February-March 
review then undertakes a comprehensive assessment of performance against the targets, and the 
findings of the assessment provide a basis for making disbursement decisions.  
The general M&E system has improved in recent years although weaknesses remain. Monitoring 
and Evaluation of the MGDS is coordinated by the M&E Division in the Ministry of Economic 
Planning and Development. An M&E master plan and road map to its implementation were 
approved in 2005. Implementation of the road map is being supported by a joint program of 
support with basket funding from the European Commission, DFID, and UNDP. Under the 
program, M&E officers have been recruited, trained and deployed in all the district assemblies of 
the country. This will improve collection of data from the field for monitoring the MGDS. M&E 
divisions have also been established in most line ministries. The main weakness remaining is that 
the indicators currently identified for monitoring the implementation of the MGDS are not 
comprehensive enough for the M&E system to provide data that could also be used for assessing 
the indicators in the PAF. As such, data on some of the indicators still has to be collected on an 
ad hoc basis. The CABS partners are working with the Government to address this weakness. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
PRSC-1 is part of a series of three operations. The first benefit of PRSC-1 is that it lays a 
foundation for a medium term reform program to be supported under the series. Secondly, it 
provides a framework for IDA to stay engaged in some of the reforms that were supported under 
the previous structural adjustment credit but not yet completed.  
The whole PRSC program is also expected to bring several benefits to Malawi’s development 
program. Firstly, it will contribute to the bridging of a financing gap that exists in the 
implementation of the MGDS. Secondly, the specific policy and institutional reforms that the 
program will support are expected to help consolidate the macroeconomic gains that Malawi has 
registered over the last three years and broaden the focus to a more structural agenda.  In 
particular, it will ensure that improved macroeconomic performance starts translating into real 
growth of the economy through increased agricultural production and private sector investment. 
Thirdly, by being part of a harmonized budget support program, the PRSC program will 
contribute towards improving aid effectiveness in line with the Paris Declaration on Aid 
Effectiveness. Further, through the Performance Assessment Framework, there will be an 
Page  9
opportunity for the IDA to stay engaged in policy dialogue even in areas where it may not be 
taking a lead in supporting the Government.  These intermediate benefits are expected to result in 
increased agricultural production and private sector investment, greater coverage and efficiency 
of social protection programs, and an expansion in the fiscal space as a result of improvements in 
the management of public resources. These will further lead to increased agricultural incomes, 
employment, and public service delivery, and hence progress towards achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals.    
The main risks overlap for a significant part with the risks identified in the CAS and are:  (i) 
Political:
Notwithstanding significant progress on the reform agenda and the demonstrated 
resolve in regaining control over the macro economic situation, the Government has a minority 
in parliament, which constrains its ability to forcefully implement reforms.  The political risk is 
compounded by the fact that the next general elections are due in less than two years time 
(before May 2009). As a result, government may not be bold enough to undertake some of the 
reforms that are likely to be controversial. To mitigate this risk, IDA and its partners are 
encouraging the authorities to engage with parliament and civil society to disseminate and make 
the case for the supported reforms and policies. In addition, the reforms supported by the PRSC 
are focusing on implementation and seeing through of reforms for which legal changes are not 
immediately required.  (ii) Governance related:
Deterioration in governance could negatively 
affect the G
overnment’s willingness to implement economic reforms.  In order to mitigate this 
risk IDA has joined the CABS as a way of intensifying the dialogue and increasing its leverage 
to ensure good governance.  In addition, to influencing governance through its policy dialogue, 
IDA also assists the Government through its Financial Management, Transparency, and 
Accountability Project (FIMTAP) operation in strengthening its capacity to reduce the public 
sector’s vulnerability to corruption.  (iii) Macro economic:
Several risks threaten Malawi’s 
macroeconomic stability, and growth prospects.  In addition to the political risks to the 
implementation of the reforms program (as discussed above), the two major dangers are (a) the 
occurrence of terms of trade and/or weather related shocks, and (b) the upcoming elections in 
2009 which might reduce the Government commitment to spending control. Either of these two 
risks could endanger the planned reduction in domestic debt, which is needed to allow greater 
private sector investment and boost economic growth. To mitigate these potential threats, IDA in 
collaboration with other donors will be supporting efforts by the Government to diversify the 
economy and to adopt a comprehensive ex-ante risk mitigation and contingency plan for 
reducing the country’s vulnerability to drought.  In addition, the CABS partners, including IDA, 
have increased predictability of funding through the adopted process and timing of reviews 
which assist GoM with its budget planning.  To mitigate the risks of fiscal slippage due to 
political pressure in the run-up to the 2009 elections, the PRSC program, in combination with the 
other CABS partners, supports the efforts by the Government to strengthen PFM systems and to 
develop a National Debt Policy, which are expected to reduce the country’s vulnerability to 
fiscal slippage.  (iv) Utilization of funds:
A
risk exists that the composition of public 
expenditures may not be fully consistent with MGDS priorities. To mitigate this threat, the PAF 
includes indicators and targets aimed at improving the composition of expenditures. Further, as 
presented in this document, the PRSC will be supporting a reform agenda aimed at improving the 
budget process, and strengthen the linkages between the budget and the MGDS.  (v) 
Administrative capacity and coordination
:
Malawi’s relatively limited Government 
administrative capacity and coordination among relevant line ministries and departments, 
compounded by the impact of HIV/AIDS on human capacity in general, could lead to delays in 
Page  10
the implementation of key measures.  To mitigate this potential coordination failure, the 
implementation arrangements of the CABS partners includes a steering committee with 
representation of all relevant line ministries and departments involved. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and social impacts
:
It is expected that the policy and institutional reforms being supported by the operation will 
contribute towards the reduction of poverty. This section focuses on those policies that have the 
potential to have the most significant positive as well as adverse effects, and what the authorities 
are planning to enhance the positive effects and mitigate the negative ones. 
 
Reforms being undertaken in ADMARC are intended to help reduce poverty among rural 
households. This is because the main aim of the reforms is to ensure that ADMARC concentrates 
in areas which are currently not being served by the private sector. As shown by the PSIA 
undertaken in 2004, it is in the rural areas that ADMARC marketing activities are needed. It is 
possible, however, that some areas may end up having reduced or no access to marketing 
services as a result of mistakes in the rationalization process. As a mitigating measure, 
ADMARC’s monitoring and evaluation capacity will be strengthened to minimize the possibility 
of areas which are neither served by ADMARC nor by the private sector.  
The restructuring of ADMARC will inevitably lead to the retrenching of significant numbers of 
staff. Careful attention has been paid to determining a severance package for staff to be 
retrenched. Further, a program is being put in place for helping the retrenched staff find new 
means of livelihood. 
The involvement of the private sector in the fertilizer subsidy program is also expected to have a 
beneficial impact on the poor. According to an evaluation study of the 2006/07 fertilizer subsidy 
program, the participation of the private sector in the sale of subsidized fertilizer improved 
availability of fertilizer in the rural areas. However, the same study also found that most private 
traders concentrated in areas which were more easily accessible, and that some traders were 
accepting subsidy vouchers in exchange for goods other than fertilizers and seeds. As a 
mitigating measure, the Government is discussing with the private traders to agree on 
performance indicators, which will determine the extent of their participation in future programs. 
 
Reforms in the land taxation and land rent structure aim to promote equity, and therefore 
expected to benefit the poor. The revisions in the land rent follow complaints by farmers that the 
new land rent which had been increased from K50/ha to K1,000/ha was too high. A study has 
been carried out on the likely impact of various levels of rents on farm incomes under different 
farming systems. However, although the reform is meant to discourage large landholders from 
leaving land idle, this may have a perverse impact of making land more expensive for the poor. 
As a mitigating measure, the Government is currently piloting a community based land 
distribution program funded by IDA in four districts. Under the program, unused land is acquired 
and re-distributed to those households with no land.   
Environmental aspects
:
Page  11
The program in general has no direct environmental impacts.  In order to carefully assess 
environmental aspects of the PRSC program, the team has carried out a formal environmental 
assessment using the DPL toolkit.   
The assessment highlighted that the PRSC supported reforms in tobacco marketing could 
potentially put significant pressure on the environment.  Improved marketing efficiency and 
contract farming of tobacco, resulting in improved price incentives in the tobacco industry, are 
likely to lead to greater use of firewood for curing tobacco, and thereby to further loss of forest. 
Malawi has a very high rate of deforestation and these reforms will increase the pressure on the 
existing forest resources.   
The Government is aware of the problem, and as a mitigation measure, as part of the MGDS, it 
plans to replant and rehabilitate 150,000 hectares of softwood and 50,000 hectares of hardwood 
timber in the central and southern region where the rate of deforestation is highest.  The 
projected reforestation program, however, is very ambitious, and the currently limited financial 
and human resources devoted to this program (through the Forestry Department) will need to be 
scaled up considerably to achieve that target.  Other options could also be pursued to mitigate 
this problem.  One is to enforce the requirement that tobacco growers keep 10 percent of their 
land as a woodlot.  The other is to look at alternative sources of energy for curing.  The Ministry 
of Agriculture is looking for partners to review more efficient curing systems, including the use 
of some renewable sources and eventually to develop and implement them.  That might also be 
worth investigating further.  As part of future PRSC operations, therefore, the Bank will explore 
with the Government possible ways to mitigate the environmental impacts of tobacco 
production. 
As part of the environmental assessment, the Bank also reviewed the possible impact of PRSC-
supported reforms in ADMARC and agricultural marketing, increased fertilizer use, land-rent 
and taxation, and improving the cost of doing business, but found that the negative 
environmental impacts of these reforms is likely to be minimal. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Antonio Nucifora 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5333+2371 / +258-21-482-371 
Fax: +258-21-492-893 
Email: anucifora@worldbank.org 
Location: Maputo, Mozambique (IBRD) 
Contact: Khwima Nthara 
Title: Economist 
Tel: 5394+3224 
Fax:  
Email: knthara@worldbank.org 
Location: Lilongwe, Malawi (IBRD) 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Page  12
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
