Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20397-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.9 MILLION
(US$6.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
ALBANIA
FOR
FINANCIAL SECTOR INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
May 5, 2000
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek 1 = US$ 0.007
US$ 1 = 141.1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BoA   -      Bank of Albania
CAS   -      Country Assistance Strategy
CEO   -      Chief Executive Officer
CIB   -      Credit Information Bureau
EBRD -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECSPF -      Europe and Central Asia Private and Financial
Sector Development Unit
EU    -      European Union
IAS   -      International Accounting Standards
IDA   -      International Development Association
IFC    -     International Finance Corporation
IMF   -      International Monetary Fund
ISC    -     Insurance Supervisory Commission
LCA   -      Loan Collection Agency
MAE  -       Monetary Exchange and Affairs Department
MoF   -      Ministry of Finance
NCB   -      National Commercial Bank
OIS   -      Operations' Information System
PIU    -     Project Implementation Unit
RCB   -      Rural Commercial Bank
RTGS -       Real-Time Gross Settlement
SOE   -      Statement of Expenditure
SvB   -      Savings Bank
TPL   -      Third Party Liability Motor Insurance
TSE   -      Tirana Stock Exchange
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:   Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Director:   Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader    Rochelle Hilton



ALBANIA
FINANCIAL SECTOR INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
l. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                          12
3. Technical                                                                          12
4. Institutional                                                                      13
5. Social                                                                             13
6. Environment                                                                        14
7. Participatory Approach                                                             14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     14
2. Critical risks                                                                     14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     15



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             16
2. Other                                                                               16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           17
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              20
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          26
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            27
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     28
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        29
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      39
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   41
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             43



ALBANIA
Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPF
Date: May 5, 2000                                  Team Leader: Rochelle Hilton
Country Manager/Director: Amtraud Hartmann          Sector Manager/Director: Ilham Zurayk
Project ID: P069079                                Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, FS - Financial
Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
C: Loan         Z Credit        O Grant          O Guarantee     D Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 6.5 (SDR 4.9 million)
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard IDA                            Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plar:    Source                                                    E2c-1 Foeigan   Total
GOVERNMENT                                                       0.49            0.00           0.49
IBRD
IDA                                                              0.00            6.50           6.50
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION                                               0.54            0.00           0.54
|Total:                                                           1.03           6.50           7.53
Borrower: ALBANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE, BANK OF ALBANIA
Ministry of Finance
Address: Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Anastas Angjeli, Minister
Tel: 355 42 284 05                Fax: 355 42 284 94                 Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Bank of Albania
Address: Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Shkelqim Cani, Govemor
Tel: 355 42 284 21               Fax:  355 42 278 21                Email:
Ministry of Finance, PIU
Address: Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Rezar Turdiu, Director
Tel: 355 42 279 41              Fax: 355 42 279 41                 Email: rtpiumof@icc-al.org



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual     0.3          1.8          1.9        1.8  I      0.7
Cumulative    0.3           2.1         4.0         5.8        6.5
Project implementation period: June 2000-June 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 09/08/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCS PAD F-: h  M.. M22
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's main development objective is to strengthen the financial sector, focusing on the banking and
insurance industries. The project will achieve this objective by providing technical assistance to the
Government in furthering the implementation of key areas of its financial sector strategy, including (i)
completion of its bank privatization program, (ii) improving financial infrastructure; and (iii) privatization
of the insurance sector. It also includes some support to improve the capital market legislative and
institutional framework.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*   Increased private ownership of the banking sector, specifically through implementation of an agreed
strategy for the privatization of the Savings Bank, in accordance with an agreed timetable, including:
(i) sending request for proposals to potential investors; (ii) negotiations with the strategic investor, and
(iii) conclusion of privatization;
* Enhancement of the efficiency and quality of financial services, through:
(i)  implementation of payment system reforms: Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS)
operational;
(ii) introduction of an IAS-based accounting system for both the banking and enterprise sectors,
including a uniform chart of accounts for enterprises, leading to enhanced transparency and increased
intermediation;
(iii) a fully operational Credit Information Bureau, with a database for sharing credit information
among commercial banks, in accordance with agreed criteria;
*   Enhancement of the Loan Collection Agency's (LCA) operational efficiency and effectiveness,
measured by the resolution of 20 percent of the value of its portfolio per year;
9  INSIG (state-owned insurance company) privatization in accordance with an agreed strategy and
timetable, including: (i) strengthened key operating areas such as information and accounting systems,
technical pricing and reserve setting; (ii) privatization strategy adopted; (iii) EU compliant legal and
regulatory framework; and (iv) identification of potential strategic investors.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18161-ALB                Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/31/98
The IDA assistance strategy supports the Government's development agenda of restoring sustained growth
and alleviating poverty. The low levels of income in Albania mean that growth--specifically private sector
growth--will be key for the reduction of poverty. The project is consistent with this strategy and will
support one of the three strategic priorities stated in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Albania,
namely promoting sustainable private sector growth. The CAS underlines financial sector reform as one of
the means to achieve this objective, with a particular focus on the banking sector. The project will address a
number of issues flagged in the CAS including: (i) increased private sector participation, which requires
privatization or liquidation of state-owned banks coupled with the introduction of new privately owned and
prudentially sound banks; (ii) the need to provide adequate institutional support and infrastructure to ensure
that banks will operate in accordance with commercial principles; (iii) full implementation of intemational
accounting standards; (iv) the introduction of a modem, automated payments system; and (v) increased
efficiency of the Bank of Albania (BoA). A CAS Progress Report was discussed by the Board on March
21, 2000. It indicates the need for continued efforts in revising regulations and strengthening banking
- 3 -



supervision. The CAS Progress Report further indicates the Bank's commitment to continue its support to
Government in financial sector reforms, particularly in developing a fully functioning payment system,
establishing a Credit Information Bureau and further liberalizing the insurance industry, all of which will
be supported under the proposed project.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
Since the 1997 crisis following the collapse of the pyramid schemes, an essential component of the
Government's recovery and reform programs has been to establish a functioning banking sector. The focus
of the strategy to date has been divestiture of the three State-owned banks and establishment of the
necessary regulatory, supervisory, and institutional framework conducive to developing a sustainable
private banking sector. The key objectives of these reforms are to enhance competition among banks,
improve the quality of banking services, restore confidence of the general public in the banking system, and
help deepen financial intermediation to the private sector. The Government has made considerable progress
in the implementation of its strategy. The Rural Commercial Bank (RCB) was closed at the end of 1997; a
loan collection agency has been established and started its operations, the privatization of the National
Commercial Bank (NCB) is nearing completion and, since 1998, the Savings Bank (SvB) has been
operating under a strict governance contract to improve its performance and prospects for privatization. In
addition, banking and central bank laws have been revised and efforts continue in the revision of
regulations and strengthening of banking supervision. The work for the establishment of a fuilly functioning
payment system is underway. Efforts are also underway for the establishment of a credit information
bureau under the BoA. A Secured Transactions Law has been passed by Parliament.
The generally successful implementation of the Government's reform strategy, together with
macroeconomic stability and growth, have contributed to the restoration of confidence in the banking
system. Aggregate household deposits have increased. In addition, although the State-owned banks have
been under a lending moratorium, the aggregate intermediation levels, which are still low, have increased
due to the improved banking environment and resulting more active lending policies adopted by the private
commercial banks.
Banking Privatization
Privatization of NCB has taken longer than anticipated but agreements with the Investor Consortium (IFC,
EBRD and Kent Bank as the strategic investor) are now in place and the final transfer of the bank is
expected to take place in May 2000. The privatization of SvB will be the next major step in the
Government's reform program.
SvB holds about 75 percent of household deposits and has a dominant role in the Treasury Bill market.
SvB inherited a large number of branches and bad loans from NCB and RCB as part of the branch
rationalization program at end-1996. SvB has very limited capacity in commercial lending or recovery of
bad loans, is suffering from negative capital, and is therefore in violation of a number of the Bank of
Albania's prudential banking regulations. As a consequence of this situation, SvB has been put under a
governance contract which prohibits any lending activity by SvB until it is in compliance with these
regulations, specifically those relating to capital adequacy and portfolio quality.
The SvB is expected to be offered for privatization in 2000. The first steps in the Government's strategy in
this regard have been to strengthen SvB's management, rationalize its operations and limit losses, and to
separate its fiscal function from its commercial banking activities. International advisers, financed from the
IDA-Credit for the Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project, have been supporting this effort. The
-4 -



privatization of SvB will require substantial additional planning and effort with emphasis on avoiding a
negative impact on depositors' confidence and the Government's macroeconomic management policies and
practices.
Loan Collection Agency (LCA)
An important element of the Government's banking sector reform program includes the resolution of the
bad loan portfolios of the State-owned banks. It is estimated that the non-performing loans of State-owned
banks represent about 80 percent of their total loan portfolio. After the liquidation of RCB, the
Government, in recognition of the need to provide a mechanism for resolution of the portfolio of RCB and
other State-owned banks, established the Loan Collection Agency (LCA), following Parliamentary adoption
of the LCA Law in late-April 1998. LCA has two functions: (a) to restructure loans in cases where debtors
are deemed viable; and (b) to liquidate bad assets. LCA was designed to perform its role on an agency
basis, with the objective of creating the right incentive structure, minimizing operational costs, and making
it easy to wind down the agency at the end of its 3-year life, as prescribed by law.
Policies, procedures, and guidelines have been developed to provide for the orderly resolution of problem
assets, with a view to maximizing net recoveries. A general manager was appointed following the
establishment of LCA. According to a preliminary review, over 3,000 files (representing around 2,500
borrowers) were transferred to the LCA from RCB. About 12 percent of clients represent 70 percent of the
total value of the portfolio to be collected. LCA has been following a three-pronged strategy in achieving
its mandate: (a) restructuring of loans to viable debtors; (b) taking legal action against non-viable or
non-cooperative debtors; and (c) undertaking a public awareness campaign, including advertisement in the
media and publishing the names of delinquent debtors to convey to the public the resolve of the LCA
management in carrying out its mandate. As of end-January 2000, 7.4 percent of the total portfolio (about
300 accounts) had been fully repaid, 18 percent had been restructured, 10 percent were being restructured
and almost 40 percent had been sent to court. Given the size of the existing portfolio, there is strong need
for outside advice in order to provide technical and operational support to the general manager, and to
further strengthen the institutional structure, policies, systems and operations. This would include a review
of the need to extend the life of the agency in order to handle the expected increase in its portfolio following
the privatization of NCB and the planned privatization of the Savings Bank.
Banking Supervision and Prudential Regulations
Over the past several years, the BoA has received substantial assistance to develop its supervision and
regulatory capacity. Most recently, the IMF has been providing extensive support on the improvement of
banking supervision and regulations. A new Banking Law and Bank of Albania Law were introduced in
1998. In addition, the Bank of Italy has been providing direct training and support, and a USAID-financed
resident adviser to the BoA will be in place until about September 2001. Substantial progress has been
made in developing and improving banking supervision and prudential regulations but more remains to be
done. Continued strengthening in this area is part of the Government's and BoA's overall program. This
effort is being supported by the IMF and various donors. It is not proposed to include additional support
under this proposed project because of the limited funds available.
Financial Infrastructure: Paynent and Settlement Systems and Chart of Accounts
The Albanian authorities have expressed their commitment to strengthening financial infrastructure
including the payments system, accounting and audits.
The BoA, with financial and technical support from the EU Phare, has developed a new Chart of Accounts
for the banking sector that is in conformity with International Accounting Standards (IAS). However,
-5 -



substantial work remains to be done to develop accounting standards and procedures for implementation of
these standards. On the enterprise side, there is need to develop IAS-based accounting standards and
procedures.
The payment and settlement systems are still rudimentary. The interbank payment system is primarily
carried out by the physical exchange of documents. Settlement is operated manually, by a department of
BoA. This system is characterized by high operating costs for the banks, slow processing of payment
instructions and long execution times for payments. Payment delays are particularly acute for the
State-owned banks, with lags of between 3 to 4 days in Tirana and up to three weeks outside Tirana. At
present, the system processes only payment orders and checks. Some private banks, on the other hand,
have modem electronic systems which permit them to finalize the transactions with their clients within one
to two days but these banks do not have extensive networks outside of Tirana. Some banks are also
initiating steps to set up ATMs and cash dispensers. This inefficient payments system is highly exposed to
risk and does not provide the degree of confidence or confidentiality required to support the development of
financial markets in Albania. The BoA, in line with its strategy for development of the banking sector and
with support from the IMF, has been developing a program to establish a reliable real time gross settlement
(RTGS) system. The BoA has requested the Bank's assistance in financing the establishment of this
system.
Credit Information Bureau (CIB)
Currently no credit information bureaus or rating agencies are active in Albania. As a result, neither the
banks nor other lenders/investors can readily access information such as the credit history, including the
total indebtedness, of potential borrowers. The lack of this information, compounded by the absence of a
mature credit culture and infrastructure, makes banks more vulnerable to credit risk. Risks associated with
bank lending extend beyond the conventional analysis of financial statements, even assuming the reliability
of the financial statement. The BoA has created a Credit Information Bureau (CIB) which will provide
inforrmation to help better assessment of credit risk. BoA intends to transfer this function to the private
sector at the appropriate time. BoA has requested support from the Bank to fund the technical assistance
needed for the start up of CIB operations.
Insurance
The Government has recently adopted a policy on liberalizing the insurance industry which includes
licensing of private insurance companies as well as the privatization of INSIG, which is currently the
dominant insurance provider in the country. Two privately owned insurance companies provide limited
products. The Govermnent plans to offer INSIG for privatization in 2001 and has requested the Bank
Group's assistance for preparation and implementation of this undertaking, in regard to both INSIG and
improving the legal, institutional and regulatory framework for the sector.
While INSIG appears to have a strong balance sheet and a competent chief executive, it has a number of
immediate operational challenges. These include reducing excessive expenses, upgrading the actuarial role
in pricing and reserving technology for Third Party Liability Insurance (TPL) in a deteriorating claims
environment, computerizing and integrating accounting and operations information systems and developing
its life insurance business through new product innovation and agency management. These developments
will need to be accompanied by a number of external activities including an upgrading of the actuarial
profession, possible changes in the pensions law and the development of a wider and deeper capital market,
which are beyond the scope of the proposed project.
As concems the legal framework, insurance laws are not in conformity with international standards,
although they are based on local interpretation of different provisions from various European countries.
-6 -



The law is particularly weak in the areas of solvency, auditing and disclosure: disclosure standards are not
yet defined, and there is no existing uniform Chart of Insurance Accounts.  In addition, under current
Albanian and EU law, life and non-life insurance cannot be carried out by the same private sector company
and a capital and operational structure will need to be developed prior to INSIG's privatization. It is likely
that two strategic investors will be required, one for life and one for non-life.
The Insurance Supervisory Commission (ISC) is the licensing and regulatory body for the insurance
industry, except for pension and health insurance. Due to lack of local expertise, existing regulations
issued by ISC are not of adequate quality, especially those dealing with solvency, accounting, licensing and
investment guidelines. ISC needs to remedy these shortcomings and issue new regulations covering various
operational risks, especially interest rate and mispricing risk. The ISC is attempting to adopt some of the
principles of the Intemational Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) and hopes to become a member
of IAIS as soon as possible.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project will provide support to the Government to implement the above agenda of reforms.
In particular, the project will assist the Government implement its privatization plans for SvB and INSIG,
as well as other key reforms, through the provision of fimds for financing advisers and technical experts, as
well as the provision of hardware and software. As a result of the assistance provided by other donors,
some progress has been made in banking regulation and supervision. Further improvement of the
regulatory framework and strengthening of BoA's supervisory capacity is still needed. Support in these
areas is being coordinated and led by the IMF, and as mentioned in the previous section, these activities are
not included in the project. However, should altemative resources become available for any of the planned
project activities, additional support for strengthening the regulatory framework and banking supervision
could be considered. This technical assistance operation is designed to ensure that adequate resources are
in place in a timely manner to facilitate the continued implementation of the Government's financial reform
program, including the privatization of financial sector institutions. The privatization of these institutions
will entail a fiscal cost on the Government. This is particularly true for the SvB because of the need to
recapitalize the bank to at least a zero capital adequacy ratio as part of the privatization. A policy-based
Banking Privatization Credit is being prepared to support the Government's reform program and to help
mitigate this fiscal burden.
-7-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project consists of five components: (i) privatization of Savings Bank; (ii) strengthening of financial
infrastructure; (iii) insurance reform and privatization of INSIG; (iv) capital markets development; and (v)
project management and implementation.
Copoen                 Seco   *        osts    % ofL3  fianing Bak
Savings Bank Privatization:       Financial Sector    2.08       27.6      1.87      28.8
- Legal/privatization advisers  Development
(MoF)
- Privatization/management/
accounting advisers
- Financial audit
Financial Infrastructure          Financial Sector    3.50       46.5      2.95      45.4
- Inter-bank Payment Systems  Development
- Implementation of standard
accounting procedures
- Loan Recovery Agency
- Credit Information Bureau
Insurance - INSIG                 Financial Sector    1.46      19.4      1.23      18.9
- Legal/Privatization advisers  Development
(MoF)
- Policy, management advisers
- Legal, regulatory and
supervisory framework
- Audit
- Accounting system and OIS
Capital Markets:                  Capital Markets     0.15        2.0      0.15       2.3
- Development of legal and     Development
institutional framework
Project Management/Implementation                     0.34        4.5      0.30       4.6
- Incremental project management
costs
- Procurement and other experts
- Project audit
Total Project Costs                   7.53      100.0      6.50     100.0
Total Financing Required                    7.53      100.0      6.50     100.0
-8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project will help the authorities continue to implement Albania's financial sector reforms.
These reforms are based on the strategy and the action plan which have been agreed with the Bank and the
IMF and which they have been supporting since 1997. The project will include, in addition to support for
privatization of the Savings Bank and INSIG, support for the development of core institutions and
infrastructure necessary for the sustainable growth of a market-based financial sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefit of the project would be the further development of the financial sector with particular focus on
the banking and insurance sectors. By increasing the transparency and efficiency of the banking sector, the
project will help improve the quality and volume of financial intermediation in the economy, thus helping to
achieve more robust private sector development in Albania. Furthermore, the general population will
benefit from safer and better financial services at more affordable costs. The implementation of the project
will help the Government reduce its potential future liabilities and costs through provision of technical
assistance for the implementation of the Govemance Contract of the Savings Bank and for the privatization
of the bank.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would be implemented over about 4.5 years. A Project Implementing Unit (PIU), an
autonomous unit located in the Ministry of Finance, was created in the early 1990s to manage
IDA-financed projects executed by the Ministiy of Finance. This PIU will be responsible for the
day-to-day administration and implementation aspects, including all procurement and disbursement
activities, as well as for the overall monitoring, of the project. The salaries of the existing PIU staff are
being paid from the IDA Credit for the RPTA Project. Additional funds will be included in the proposed
project to cover the estimated incremental operating costs that will be needed following completion of the
RPTA Project (targeted for December 2000).
The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the components relating to the Savings Bank, insurance and
capital markets development. A project-financed adviser will work with the Minister of Finance to provide
guidance and assistance in the respective privatization programs for the Savings Bank and INSIG,
particularly in regard to the legal aspects of privatization. This adviser will work closely with the
management of the Savings Bank and INSIG to support implementation of the Government's programs.
The BoA will be responsible, from a technical point of view, for the financial infrastructure component of
the project, except for the development of accounting standards and procedures for the enterprise sector,
which will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The Payment Systems Department of the Bank
of Albania, together with its Information Technology (IT) Department, is taking the lead in the technical
preparation of the payments system  reform.  BoA's Accounting Department is spearheading the
development of accounting standards and procedures for banks, also in collaboration with the IT
Department. The IMF has been providing advice to the BoA, both in developing requirements for a Real
Time Gross Settlements (RTGS) system, a compatible accounting system and for accounting reform.
For IDA, supervision will be carried out by ECSPF, with participation of staff from the Albania country
office. Given the nature of the assistance, supervision will involve substantial resources from banking,
insurance, legal and information technology specialists. A mid-term review will be held by end-December
2002.
-9-



Financial Management:
General: The existing PIU will be responsible for project management. The PIU already has in place an
accounting and financial management system which is under improvement with the assistance of a
short-term Accounting Consultant. This consultant is supporting the PIU financial manager/accountant in
the: (i) design and implementation of the project's new accounting and financial management system; (ii)
drafting of the accounting and financial manual; and (iii) installation of an appropriate integrated
accounting software. The new system will enable the PIU financial manager/accountant to produce full
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in a timely and accurate manner.
Financial Management Assessment: The Association carried out an accounting and financial management
assessment of the PIU in order to determine whether the project has an adequate financial management
system in place, as required by the Association under OP/BP 10.02. The PIU satisfies the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements. However, a project financial management system that would be able
to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project as
required by the Association for PMR-based disbursements is not yet in place. The Association has agreed
upon an action plan to strengthen the PIU's capabilities and implementation of this program is already
underway. It is envisaged that the PIU will be able to produce such reports by June 30, 2001.
Staffing: The PIU already employs a financial manager/accountant who takes care of all financial
management and disbursement activities. Given the activity of the PIU, this is adequate for the purposes of
the project. Furthermore, the accountant will complete a World Bank-sponsored financial management
course in Turin in July to further enhance her skills.
Audit arrangements: The PIU will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing to the Bank the
project's audited financial statements within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The accounts and
financial statements of the project will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
The audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of
funds, and expenditures incurred) and it will be carried out in accordance with Intemational Standards of
Auditing. Auditors will be appointed by the Ministry of Finance to carry out this audit as part of an overall
agreement for the audit of the IDA-financed portfolio.  Financing for the project-related audit will be
provided for under the proposed project.
Disbursement arrangements: The project will initially disburse under the Association's traditional
disbursement procedures, including the use of Statement of Expenditure (SOE), with the future option of
moving to the Project Management Reports (PMR)-based disbursement method with the mutual agreement
of the Borrower and the Association.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Few altematives exist for the project related activities. Consideration was given to incorporating the
activities in the ongoing RPTA Project but insufficient resources are available under this project. Other
donor agencies expect IDA to take the lead in the financial sector and have available only limited resources.
Discussions are continuing with the main donors, both bilateral and multilateral, to explore cofinancing
possibilities. Sufficient flexibility is being built into the project to allow resources to be reallocated among
key areas of assistance within the framework of the project, should additional resources materialize.
- 10-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed, proI!Ets only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Policy-based: Enterprise and financial  EFSAC (completed)           S             S
sector adjustment
Technical assistance              TA Project for Economic           S             S
Reform (completed)
TA for financial sector development,   Recovery Program TA Project  S             S
public admin. and judicial reform and  (ongoing)
strengthened economic policy
decision-making
Policy-based - adjustment lending  SAC                              S             S
Bank Privatization - (Savings Bank) -  Bank Privatization Credit
policy based                      (planned)
Bank Privatization - equity investment IFC - NCB Privatization (in
process)
Other development agencies
IMF                               ESAF, banking supervision,
financial infrastructure
US (including USAID)              TA to BoA (banking
supervision) (ongoing)
EBRD                              NCB Privatization (in process)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Implementation of the ongoing RPTA Project continues to be satisfactory, particularly with respect to the
implementation of the financial sector reforms. Many of the lessons learned from the first TA operation
were incorporated in the RPTA and have been further strengthened in the proposed operation. These
lessons include the need for strong Borrower commitment and good coordination. Earlier projects also
demonstrated the need for continuity of staff, from both the Government and the Bank, which leads to
closer cooperation. The project design will incorporate the earlier lessons to retain a degree of flexibility
in the project so that activities can be adjusted to respond to changing priorities within the overall
framework of the operation. In addition, earlier experiences have highlighted the importance of avoiding
over-optimistic goals, developing realistic timetables and providing detailed monitoring indicators. These
lessons are reflected in the proposed operation as it is a continuation of the ongoing RPTA Project and
builds on the program that is already under implementation. Finally, the proposed operation also
recognizes that intensive supervision is essential to help maintain the momentum in implementing agreed
programs and adherence to difficult commitments.
- 11 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government and the Bank of Albania have consistently expressed their commitment to financial sector
reform and banking privatization since 1997, as demonstrated by progress in a number of sensitive areas
including the closure of RCB, the privatization of NCB and the Government's announced intention to offer
the Savings Bank for privatization in 2000. The BoA supports the privatization effort, continues its efforts
to improve banking supervision and has prepared detailed reports outlining its requirements to improve
banking infrastructure. The Government is also strongly committed to the privatization of INSIG, which it
intends to offer for privatization in 2001. The current management of INSIG, which shares this
commitment, has prepared and discussed with the Minister of Finance a strategic framework for the
development and anticipated privatization of this entity. A new more efficient organizational structure for
INSIG is also expected to be announced imminently. The proposed project will support the authorities in
the continuation of this complex reform and will complement the planned Banking Privatization Credit,
which the Government has requested.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has provided ongoing financial support and policy advice to the Government in the area of
financial sector reform. The Government, the IMF and other donors look to the Bank to provide continued
support to the Government to help sustain momentum in the Government's reform program.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Not applicable
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
With regard to financial management, although the Borrower's capacity is limited, accounting and controls
under ongoing IDA-financed projects administered by the PIU have been satisfactory. Furthermore,
actions are underway, with financing from the ongoing RPTA Project, to further improve the PIU's
financial management system.
Fiscal Impact:
The proposed project is expected to assist in reducing the Government's involvement in the financial sector
thereby minimizing its exposure to potential fiscal costs. Apart from obligations relating to payment of an
IDA credit, the project has no direct implications for the Government's budget.
3. Technical:
Successful financial sector reform, including privatization, requires high-quality advice from experts in a
number of areas. This project will assist the Government access top level advisers and consultants to
facilitate the achievement of its reform objectives in a timely manner.
- 12 -



4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Albania will be the main executing agencies. The proposed
project includes consulting services to provide expert policy advice and guidance, particularly as it relates
to the privatization of financial institutions. Although the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Finance
is limited, it has been receiving extensive technical assistance from other donors to strengthen this capacity.
Continued close cooperation with IDA is also needed. The Bank of Albania has adequate in-house capacity
to implement the project. The Payments System, Accounting and Information Technology Departments
have been actively involved in the preparation of activities relating to their areas of responsibility and have
sufficient staff to implement the various elements of the project, using outside specialists where additional
technical expertise is needed. The proposed project will provide the needed technical assistance to help
further improve the capacity of these entities. In addition, a US Treasury-financed adviser has recently
taken up his position as adviser to the Minister in regard to the SvB privatization.
b. Project management:
The PIU, among other projects, is currently administering the Recovery Program Technical Assistance
(RPTA) Project.  It has developed substantial experience in project administration, particularly in
procurement, disbursement, and accounting procedures. Over the last two years, it experienced some
problems relating to the status of the Unit which was not at a sufficient level to enable it to carry out its
functions effectively. This issue was resolved in late 1999, when, consistent with recommendations from
IDA, the PIU's status was changed to make it into an autonomous unit reporting to the Minister. Its
staffing was increased over the past year and its complement now includes a procurement manager and a
financial manager. In January 2000, it moved into more appropriate offices, which provide adequate space
for staff and records. As a result of these recent actions, the PIU now has adequate staff, experience and
capacity to implement the proposed project, as well as to fulfill its other responsibilities. The ongoing
RPTA Project includes a provision to finance the PIU's incremental operating costs, including the salaries
of the key staff, who are no longer civil service employees. Resources will be incorporated in the proposed
operation to cover the estimated incremental operating costs that will be needed to implement the FSIBTA,
as well as a provision for short-tenn assistance, particularly to help with procurement activities during the
first year of project implementation, when procurement activity is expected to be particularly heavy. The
record-keeping system which the PIU has established for other IDA-financed projects is satisfactory and
will be used for this operation.
5. Social:
The planned privatization of the Savings Bank and of INSIG will have a limited social impact as they could
entail some downsizing and displacement of management. However, this impact is anticipated to be small.
The largest impact is expected to be in more remote rural areas where some agencies or offices of the
Savings Bank may be closed and where altemative sources of employment are limited. INSIG already has
in place a plan for restructuring the institution. A main feature of this plan would be to change the status
of some of the current employees to allow them to work on an agency basis. This would have a positive
impact as it would improve the incentive system and allow employees to eam substantially more, depending
on their productivity. At the same time it would reduce the overall staff cost for INSIG. The Govenmment
is aware that overall some jobs could be lost and already has in place arrangements for severance pay. In
- 13 -



addition, it is looking at ways to improve the safety net for the affected persons. Most importantly,
opportunities in the growing private sector are expected to absorb staff and management who may be
displaced by the privatization, further reducing the negative social impact. This will be particularly true
for the growing private banking sector. In this regard, the private joint-venture banks have, in recent years,
started to diversify their operations to cities other than Tirana and have indicated plans to open new
branches and increase their activities in other parts of Albania.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: C (Not Required)
Not applicable. This is a technical assistance project with no environmental impact.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The Bank has pursued an ongoing dialogue with key players in the financial sector and has consulted
closely with the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Albania, Savings Bank, private banks, INSIG and the
Securities Commission to tailor this project to the needs of the Government and these institutions.
b. Other key stakeholders:
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will finance the implementation of reforms/actions which will help Albania establish a
well-functioning, market-based financial sector, which is key for sustained private sector development
and private-sector led growth. Privatization of Savings Bank will be the last step in the Government's
exit from commercial bank ownership. By assisting the Government in selecting a fit and proper
strategic investor, the project aims at helping improve the long-term robustness of the banking sector
in Albania. Also, the legislation and institutions to be developed/improved with support from the
project are critical pillars for a well functioning privately led financial sector. In addition, the
proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit will include banking privatization and will thus
provide considerable follow up in areas addressed by this project and enhance sustainability of the
reforms supported by this project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Delays in privatization of NCB thereby      N
threatening progress in SvB's
privatization
A change in Government to one which         S         Continued dialogue on the benefits of
does not support the privatization                    privatization with the Government, opposition,
objectives and strategy                               press and other opinion-leaders in the country
BoA adopts a restrictive policy towards     N
entry and exit of private banks
- 14 -



From Components to Outputs
No reputable strategic investors express    S         Early appointment of privatization advisers and
interest in the Savings Bank                          proactive pursuit of foreign investors by the
Government and its advisers
Resistance of Savings Bank management       S         Early appointment of privatization advisers and
to the privatization process                          continuation of Governance Contract
Public backlash to collection efforts and   S         Technical assistance to the judiciary under the
lack of improvement in capacity of the                proposed judicial reform project and provision
court system to deal with its case load               of additional operational support to the LCA
Delays in decisions on the RTGS system      N
Enterprises and banks resist changeover     H         For the banking sector, BoA attaches priority to
from the current accounting system to the            this. Private banks have already started the
new standards                                        implementation. For enterprises, private banks
are expected to demand IAS-based accounts for
extension of credit
Unwillingness of banks and legal            S         Close coordination with BoA and early dialogue
impediments to sharing of debtor                      with banks
information
Change in INSIG management to one           S         Provide adequate and timely support to
which is not supportive of privatization              management to maintain momentum in
advancing its agenda
No reputable strategic investors express    M         Proactive pursuit of foreign investors by the
interest in INSIG                                     Government and its advisers, including of
potential investors who are already in touch with
INSIG
Third Party Liability pricing becomes       S         Development of improved pricing technology
misaligned with claims experience and the             and role of actuary
industry is destabilized
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
(i) privatization of the Savings Bank
(ii) privatization of INSIG
(iii) aggressive actions to recover outstanding and overdue loans
- 15-



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenarit types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial: The Borrower will put in place systems to ensure that quarterly project management reports,
acceptable to the Association, can be produced by June 30, 2001.
Implementation: (i) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association a report on the monitoring and
evaluation activities of project progress by October 31, 2002; and (ii) the Borrower shall review with the
Association, by December 31, 2002, the above report and subsequently take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and achievement of its objectives, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of this review.
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
M 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
C 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L ] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Rochelle Hilton                   Ilham Zurayk                  r    Artraud Hartmar      /
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director       rr Country Manager/Director
- 16-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
Key Perfomance
Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators             Monitoring & Evaluation          Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:               Sectorl country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote sustainable private   Increased private ownership of   Macroeconomic monitoring     Political and macroeconomic
sector growth, through financial  the banking sector         (Periodic)                     stability
sector reform                 Increased intermediation through                              Continuation of reforms
banks to the private sector
Project Development           Outcome / Impact               Project reports:               (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
Strengthen the financial sector,   Privatization of Savings Bank  Project progress reports  NCB privatization is successfully
focusing on the banking and   Operational RTGS               Project supervision            completed
insurance industries          Privatization of INSIG                                        Government maintains its policy
for and commitment to the
financial sector reform program
BoA maintains its policies to
promote private sector
involvement in the banking sector
- 17-



Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Privatization of SvB         Implementation of agreed      Quarterly consultants reports,    Continued support by SvB
privatization strategy, in   project management reports and  management of the privatization
accordance with agreed timetable, supervision missions     strategy
including sending request for                              Timely appointment of
proposals to potential investors,                          consultants, including
negotiations with strategic                                privatization advisers
investors and conclusion of                                Adequate interest by reputable
privatization.                                             banks in acquiring SvB
Improved financial sector    lAS-based accounting standards  Same                       Willingness of enterprises and
infrastructure              introduced for banks and                                    banks to accept a change in their
enterprises                                                accounting practices and culture
Uniform Chart of accounts for    Same
enterprises introduced
Software developed and hardware Same                       No delays in decision making on
in place for RTGS system                                  the design and complexity of the
RTGS system operational                                    RTGS system
Loan Collection Agency's     Same                          Continued improvement in the
operational efficiency and                                 efficiency of the court system and
effectiveness enhanced, as                                in the capacity of the LCA
demonstrated by a reduction in its
portfolio of at least 20% (value)
Database with credit information  Same                     Banks follow through on their
created and being shared among                             expressions of interest in a Credit
commercial banks in accordance                            Information Bureau and buy into
with agreed criteria to make CIB                           such a scheme
fully operational                                          No legal impediment to the
sharing by banks of credit
information
Liberalization of insurance sector Implementation of agreed  Same                       Continued existence of a
and privatization of INSIG   privatization strategy, according                          reformist management in INSIG
to agreed timetable, for INSIG,                            Timely appointment of advisers
including strengthened key                         .       Adequate interest by reputable
operating areas such as                                    institutions in acquiring INSIG
information and accounting                                 Parliamentary support
systems, technical pricing and                             Availability of supporting trust
reserve setting; identification of                         funds
potential strategic investors
Legal, regulatory, and supervisory
framework in compliance with
EU standards
- 18-



Key Pe rfm nce
HieraWrhy of Objectives              lniators              Monitorins & Evaluation         Crtical As   tmpons
Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                  Outputs)
1. Savings Bank Privatization  - 1. US$2.08 million        Quarterly consultants' reports,.   Timely appointment of qualified
management advisers                                    annual auditors report on     advisers and cooperation of bank
- financial audit                                      financial statements, project  management
supervision and project
management reports
2 Financial Infrastructure   2. US$3.50 million            Quarterly consultants' reports,    Timely appointment of advisers
- establishment of modem                               project supervision and project   and agreement on systems to be
interbank payments system                              management reports            realized
- implementation of
standard accounting
procedures
- strengthened Loan
Collection Agency
- establishment of Credit
Information Bureau
3. INSIG Privatization       3. US$1.46 million                                          Timely appointment of qualified
- improving legal                                                                    advisers and cooperation of
supervisory and regulatory                                                           INSIG management
framework
- policy, management, legal
and privatization advisers
- accounting and operating
information system
financial audit
4. Capital Markets           4. US$0.15 million
- review of legal and
regulatory framework
5. Project Management        5. US$0.34 million
- incremental operating costs
of PIU
- procurement and other
short-term support
- project audits
-19-



Annex 2: Project Description
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.08 million
(a) Savings Bank Privatization
The long-tern goal of the Government of Albania and the Bank of Albania (BoA) is to establish a sound,
innovative and competitive private banking system that can mobilize a rising level of resources and
efficiently service the funding needs of a growing enterprise sector. The formal banking sector in Albania
consists of two State-owned banks accounting for about 92 percent of total deposits and 88 percent of total
assets in the banking sector, as well as nine small foreign or joint venture banks. The sale of one of the
State-owned banks, National Commercial Bank (NCB), to a consortium of investors including Kent Bank,
IFC, and EBRD, is expected to be finalized in May 2000. The private banks have, until very recently,
focused mainly on providing corporate services to their clients, and have lately begun to collect Lek
deposits and provide loans in Albania.
The Savings Bank (SvB) is the largest bank in the country and is fully State-owned. The bank's network
of around 32 branches and over 100 cash transfer agencies covers the entire territory of Albania. The main
business of the bank has been that of a narrow savings bank, although for a short period, before 1997, the
bank started offering a range of services including loans to the commercial sector. The majority of the
bank's assets are currently placed in Treasury Bills.
As of end-i 999, its total assets amounted to about US$1.2 billion, based on unaudited financial statements.
As part of the Government's branch rationalization program, the SvB inherited a large number of branches,
bad loans and losses from NCB and RCB (which was subsequently closed) in 1996. As a result of this
transfer, and compounded by the bank's limited capacity in commercial lending or recovery of bad loans,
the capital of SvB is impaired and is currently negative. The SvB has historically also suffered from poor
governance, State interference, poor cost controls, and imprudent lending practices. In an attempt to
remedy this situation, the senior management team of the bank was replaced in 1997, and, on May 8, 1998,
the management of the bank entered into a two year Govemance Contract with its Supervisory Board. This
Contract was formally accepted by the MoF, as the owner, and the BoA, as the banking supervisor,
through side letters. It initiated the defensive restructuring of the bank with a view to privatizing it as soon
as feasible. The Governance Contract defined the conditions under which the BoA is providing regulatory
relief to the Savings Bank without posing a threat to the overall soundness and efficient functioning of the
Albanian banking system.
Since 1998, SvB has received substantial technical assistance, both from the EU and from the IDA Credit
for the ongoing RPTA Project, to support the implementation of the Governance Contract. IAS audits of
the 1998-99 accounts are being completed with grant funding. Initial unaudited results indicate that the
SvB made a profit in 1999. SvB is expected to be offered for privatization in 2000. The first steps in the
Government's strategy in this regard continue to be to strengthen SvB's management, rationale its
operations and limit its losses. The privatization of SvB will require substantial planning and effort,
including the separation of its commercial activities from its fee-based fiscal functions. The management
of the SvB and the Government authorities have requested the World Bank to help finance the services
needed to successfully privatize the SvB. These services include:
- 20 -



1.1    Management Advisers (US$0.55 million): to provide assistance to the Chief Executive Officer
of the Savings Bank to help guide, direct, control and supervise the activities of the SvB, to ensure that the
bank operates within the guidelines established in the Governance Contract. To this end, the assignment
would include the provision of a resident Chief Operating Officer (COO) who would help ensure that the
bank operates in a prudent manner, that operating losses are minimized and that its assets are properly
safeguarded. This assignment would also help prepare the bank for privatization by finalizing the
privatization strategy and implementing restructuring operations that may be necessary to ensure the
efficient privatization of the SvB. It would also include the provision of a Chief Accounting Officer (CAO)
who would ensure, inter alia, that the bank's accounts are maintained according to international standards
and that the loan files and other records of the bank are maintained in a proper and appropriate manner to
facilitate an internal due diligence.
1.2    Privatization Advisers (US$1.43 million): to provide financial and legal advice to the Savings
Bank. This assignment will include conclusion of preparations for privatization, assisting the SvB in
identification of potential strategic investors, and other necessary assistance to successfully conclude the
sale of the SvB. Under this assignment, the advisors will inter alia: (a) perform due diligence; (b) perform
a valuation of the bank; (c) market the transaction to potential investors; (d) assist in the selection of the
strategic investor; (e) coordinate and facilitate the execution of due diligence by investors; (f) assist and
advise the Savings Bank and the owner in negotiating and closing the transaction; and (g) take all other
actions as required to complete the sale. The project would also finance advisers to the Ministry of Finance
to focus on the legal expertise that will be needed to prepare for, develop and negotiate the transaction for
the sale of SvB.
1.3    Financial Audit (US$0.1 million): IAS financial audits of Savings Bank would be financed
under the project and are expected to cover a standard annual financial audit of the year 2000. financial
statements as well as a special audit covering the period between the year end 2000 and date of the sale.
Project Component 2 - US$3.50 million
(b) Financial Infrastructure
Following up on initial support that has been provided under the ongoing RPTA Project, assistance will be
provided under the proposed project to further strengthen and modernize various elements of the country's
financial infrastructure. This will include:
2.1   Inter-bank Payments System (US$1.75 million): The current payments system does not meet the
requirements of a modem and developed payments system. The interbank payment system is carried out by
the physical exchange of documents. Settlement is operated manually, by the BoA's Payment Department.
This results in high operating costs for the banks, slow processing of payment instructions, and long
execution times for payments. Such a payments system is highly exposed to risk and lacks the confidence
of banks and other users. It cannot, therefore, support the development of financial markets and the private
sector. To address this problem, the BoA has decided to establish an automated RTGS system. It has
developed the user requirements of this system with the IMF-MAE support. The main objectives of the
RTGS system are to; (i) achieve real-time settlement of payments between the commercial banks on their
books with the BoA and facilitate the timely settlement of monetary transactions; (ii) increase the efficiency
of daily liquidity management by the banks (with an integrated system for settlement account information);
(iii) minimize the payment system risk; (iv) improve the inter-bank communication infrastructure; and (v)
set up the supporting infrastructure for future developments in the payments and financial systems. The
RTGS system will be implemented in three phases with a view to having the system fully operational over a
period of about 3-4 years. Banks will be added to the system gradually and it is expected that all banks
- 21 -



will be connected within one year. The Government Securities Book-entry System and the Monetary
Operations Department will then also be linked with the RTGS system. This phase is expected to take up
to 4 years. The project will support the design, development, installation and operation of the RTGS
system, through the development/customizing of software and operation of the system, as well as the
provision of computer equipment needed for implementation of the system.
2.2    Standard Accounting Procedures (US$0.91 million): The current Albanian Accounting Law is
based on the French Accounting Law. The authorities wish to amend and customize this Law, and also
achieve full compliance with IAS. The weaknesses of the existing accounting system are: the lack of
national accounting standards compliant with IAS; the lack of a uniform chart of accounts based on the
IAS compliant national accounting standards; the lack of necessary skills among accounting professionals;
and the distortion caused by the fiscal law which, in the absence of specific accounting standards, is often
adopted as a benchmark by the accounting profession. Funding will be provided under the project for
technical assistance to: (a) revise the existing Accounting Law; (b) develop national accounting standards
based on IAS; (c) develop/revise the chart of accounts for the enterprise, banking, insurance sectors and
budgetary institutions, in compliance with the new Law and new national accounting standards. In
addition, it comprises the development and implementation of an MIS/accounting system for BoA which is
compatible with the RTGS System. The project also includes a provision for experts to train accounting
trainers and professionals to ensure full understanding of the newly introduced system and a smooth
transition from the old to the new system.
2.3    Loan Collection Agency (US$0.49 million): Funding would be provided under the project to
carry out an operational and financial audit of LCA. This audit will cover, inter alia, the assessment of
financial accounts and performance of the LCA since its inception, the compliance of its activities with the
provisions of the LCA law, and the adequacy of its policies and procedures. Provision is also included for
assistance to the president of LCA in performing his day-to-day duties. The duties of the resident adviser
will cover oversight of the accounting practices in the LCA, improving the operational efficiency as
necessary, and developing an effective management information system which could be used for both the
day-to-day monitoring of the operation as well as the reporting of the LCA's activities to the supervision
board.
2.4    Credit Information Bureau (US$0.35 million): In determining the quality of the credit and
assessing the risk of a prospective borrower, the amount of credit default needs to be established; but this
alone is not sufficient. Lenders, especially banks, should have access to additional information to help
them determine the payment record of borrowers or to provide information on the total actual and potential
bank indebtedness of a borrower. There is no existing independent system in Albania that can provide this
infonnation.  A  credit information bureau (CIB) could help creditors assess the risk of a potential
borrower by providing information that goes beyond the conventional analysis of financial statements. The
CIB could provide information to help: (a) ascertain the extent of unused credit lines available to a
borrower that provide either financial flexibility or signal the extent of debt burden that a borrower can
generate; (b) identify a subset of related borrowers belonging to a business group where the subset of
borrowers may be servicing its debts promptly but the aggregate indebtedness of the business group has a
large debt overhang that could hurt a particular creditor or the entire banking system, if a major corporate
member of the group fails; and (c) ascertain whether, while the aggregate indebtedness of a business group
appears to be within a manageable level, there could be a corporate member which is debt free and yet
incurring large operational losses. The BoA has initiated the establishment of a CIB in Albania. This
would initially be operated by the BoA with a view to transferring it to the private sector at an appropriate
time. The project includes technical assistance to the Bank of Albania for developing policies, procedures
and operational guidelines to initiate the activities of the CIB and to identify and customize software for the
- 22 -



specific needs of the CIB, as well as the purchase of software and a small quantity of hardware, as
necessary.  In addition, a provision is included for ad hoc short-term  assistance over the project
implementation period.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.46 million
(c) Insurance Privatization - INSIG
Overall, the insurance market remains essentially undeveloped with one of the lowest insurance
penetrations in the world. The market is served by three insurance companies. INSIG, which dominates
the market, was established as a state insurance monopoly in 1991 and became a joint stock company in
1998. INSIG's major business is motor insurance and, until recently, it has been extremely profitable. As
part of a market liberalization program the Government has issued licenses to two new companies which
are being run by former INSIG employees. The new companies have adopted a policy of competing in the
motor market by using INSIG's premium rates with a discount - INSIG has lost at least 20 percent of the
market as a result. Unfortunately this is happening at a time of rapidly deteriorating claims experience. The
Government intends to privatize INSIG in 2001. In preparing for this step, actions need to be taken, as a
matter of some urgency, both to improve the management and operations of INSIG and to improve the legal
and regulatory framework.
3.1    Policy, Management and Operations of INSIG  (US$0.92 million): Motor business accounts
for 85 percent of premium income and nearly 90 percent of policyholder provisions in INSIG's balance
sheet. Total investment assets at the end of 1998 amounted to Lek 4.7 billion and about Lek 5.2 billion in
1999, making INSIG the major institutional investor in Albania. The portfolio is invested conservatively,
with 78 percent in short term government paper and hard currency deposits. INSIG's management has a
strategy, involving reinsurer technical support, to development life insurance and it has a life insurance
division. However, this business sells products more aligned to a casualty operation and most of the
development work in this market is still to be done. Work also needs to be done to determine both the
capital and operating structures for the privatized entity since, under Albanian (and EU) law a single
insurer cannot underwrite both life and non-life insurance. INSIG has a staff of approximately 650. While
this is substantially more than can be sustained under a more competitive operating environment, INSIG's
management already has plans in place to deal with these human resource issues. Finally systems are still
largely manual, claims are handled by the branches in a decentralized manner and operating and audit
controls are weak. Although there has been a start on developing an operating database, this is very
dependent on branches for input and is not integrated with the manual accounting system.
To help address some of the above weaknesses, strengthen INSIG's position, improve operating and audit
controls, and better deal with the growing competition with a view to improving its prospects for
privatization, the project would provide support in the following areas:
*      advisory services for the development and implementation of a privatization strategy, including
the development of a future operating and capital structure
*      advisory services for pricing and setting of reserves for third party liability and casualty/life
insurance products in a competitive market
*     development and integration of accounting and operations' information systems, particularly for
claims management, including the development of software and provision of hardware
*      advisory services for the introduction of modem claims management systems and skills,
particularly for motor insurance.
3.2    Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework (USO.36 million): The Insurance Supervisory
Commission (ISC) was set up by a law enacted in 1996 to cover all insurance activities except pensions
-23-



and health. Given its resources, it has made good progress in building a prudential regulatory framework,
based largely on EU directives. The ISC is, however, aware that much more needs to be done, particularly
in such areas as solvency, investment limits, actuarial requirements and technical provisions, although some
non-enforceable guidelines have been introduced for the last item. It is anticipated that IFC will support the
review and development of the legal and regulatory environment, particularly dealing with such issues as
solvency and asset/liability management, as well as training for the ISC.  The project will provide
resources to complement this support and adapt and implement a standard chart of accounts, based on EU
standards, and also to review and improve the law for privatization of INSIG.
3.3    Financial Audit (US$0.18 million): INSIG's published accounts are quite comprehensive for a
country at Albania's stage of development and include concepts such as uneamed premium and claims
technical provisions. However, the underlying systems and accounting concepts are largely non-existent.
The project includes a provision for a thorough review and possible recasting of the accounts, using the EU
chart of accounts (there is no IAS standard for insurance).
Project Component 4 - US$0.15 million
(d) Capital Markets: Capital market development is linked to the progress in other project components
such as the implementation of an RTGS system, improvement of the accounting system, and SvB's
privatization. In Albania, the capital market is composed of the Treasury bills (T-bills) market and the
stock exchange. The Government has developed, and the parliament has approved, a number of laws and
regulations to establish the legal framework for the operation of these markets. The Law on Securities
allows the BoA to establish and operate a securities market and enabled the BoA to establish the Tirana
Stock Exchange (TSE) as a department within the BoA. However, the TSE is neither a stock market nor a
money market as no share is traded on it and most enterprises are unable to meet listing requirements
relating to audited accounts. At the beginning of 2000, the Albanian Securities Commission (ASC) sent to
the Government a proposal to change the Law on Securities in order to spin the TSE off from the BoA and
to establish it as an independent institution.
The Ministry of Finance issued its first T-bills in 1994. Although the secondary market was introduced
with the establishment of the TSE in 1996, this market is practically non-existent, with only one trading
session last year. Primary auctions are held by the Monetary Operations Department within the BoA. In
1999, in accordance with IMF recommendations, new regulations were approved in order to increase the
transparency of primary auctions and the marketability of T-bills. The SvB controls about 80 percent of
outstanding T-bills, private banks hold about 17 percent and non-financial institutions (INSIG) about 2-3
percent. Households hold only about 0.3-0.4 percent of T-bills, although they are much more profitable
than deposits of the same maturity.
Several donors are assisting the authorities in the above areas. At this tirne, given the current environment
and needs, it would be premature to provide additional support for capital market development. However,
to supplement the work that has been done to date, the project includes a small provision to review and
recommend revision to the legal, institutional, regulatory and supervisory framework for the capital market
in order to ensure: (i) its faimess, efficiency and transparency; (ii) investor protection; and (iii) the
reduction of the systemic risk. The scope of this component would be reviewed during implementation and
additional support considered if more in-depth assistance is called for.
- 24 -



Project Component 5 - US$0.34 million
(e) Project Management/Implementation
5.1   Incremental and Project Management Costs of PIU (US$0.27 million): The key staff of PIU
includes a Director, a Procurement Manager and a Financial Manager/Accountant. In addition, a Project
Manager is in charge of the Microcredit Project. Among its responsibilities, the main activity of the PIU,
located in the Ministry of Finance, is the management and administration of the Recovery Program
Technical Assistance Project. This operation is expected to close at end-2000 but the PIU will continue to
operate to handle the day-to-day management and administration of the proposed FSIBTA Project, in
addition to its other main activity of managing the Microcredit Project. The PIU will cease to exist on the
completion of these projects, unless new IDA-financed projects under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance come on stream. Given the temporary nature of the Unit, the project includes a provision to
finance the incremental operating costs of the Unit, following the completion of the RPTA Project, and
which will be needed for the implementation of the FSIBTA Project. The project will cover up to 90
percent of these costs from January 2000 to June 2005, including the salaries of the key PIU staff, and
other incremental operating costs for office supplies, fumiture, utilities, travel and other services such as
fax and telephone. Consideration will be given to extending the contracts of the existing key staff, subject
to their satisfactory performance and adequacy for the assignment. Incremental operating costs will be
based on annual budgets, to be agreed with IDA and to be disbursed against Statements of Expenditure.
The budget will show the percentage of costs to be covered by this project and which are to be covered by
the Microcredit Project. The financial management system will also show the percentage of funds that have
been allocated to each project. The Government will provide office space and utilities. In addition, the
project includes a provision for short-term consultants for project management, particularly for a
procurement expert during the first year of the project. These services will be needed to manage the heavy
workload anticipated to meet the timetables of the authorities for banking privatization and upgrading of
financial infrastructure.
5.2    Project Audits (US$0.07 million): Provision is included to finance the annual audits of the
project account for the Ministry of Finance. The first audit is expected to be due for the audit of the 2000
accounts and to terminate with the final audit of the project activities. It is anticipated that the final audit
will be provided before mid-2005.
- 25 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
Local    FoeU ota
Brojec Cost w  Cnomponent     ::::::  US$    orS$ million L  S$ millioI
Banking Privatization:
Savings Bank Privatization:
MoF Adviser - legal aspects of privatization          0.02       0.15        0.17
SvB COO/CAO                                            0.05      0.50        0.55
Prvatization advisers                                  0.10      1.00        1.10
Short-term management/operations advisers              0.02      0.14        0.16
Annual financial audits                                0.02       0.08       0.10
Subtotal                                  0.21       1.87       2.08
Financial Infrastructure
RTGS System                                            0.25       1.50       1.75
Accounting standards and system for banks/BoA          0.20       0.40       0.60
Accounting standards and chart of accounts for enterprises  0.01  0.30       0.31
Loan Collection Agency                                 0.04      0.30        0.34
Loan Collection Agency Audit                                     0.15        0.15
Credit Information Bureau                              0.05      0.30        0.35
Subtotal                                  0.55       2.95       3.50
Insurance Sector Reform
Legal/regulatory review                               0.02       0.33       0.35
MoF Adviser - legalprivatization advisers             0.02       0.15       0.17
Policy/management/operations advisers                 0.04       0.30       0.34
Annual financial audits                                0.03      0.15        0.18
Accounting/operations' information systems             0.12      0.30        0.42
Subtotal                                  0.23       1.23       1.46
Capital Market Development
Review and definition of the legal, regulatory and supervisory
framework                                                        0.15        0.15
Subtotal                                             0.15       0.15
Project Management/implementation
Short-term consultants (procurement)                  0.01       0.05       0.06
Annual audits                                          0.01      0.06        0.07
Incremental Operating Costs                           0.02       0.19       0.21
Subtotal                                  0.04       0.30       0.34
Total Project Costs                  1.03       6.50       7.53
Goods                                                 0.60       1.85        2.45
Services                                              0.40       4.46       4.86
Incremental Operating Costs                           0.03       0.19        0.22
Total Project Costs                      1.03       6.50       7.53
Total Financing Required              _    _1.03  _    _6.50  _   _7.53
- 26 -



Annex 4
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
Not applicable
- 27 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
US$ Millions
_w____    ____   ___      X O1 Ti_
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         0.41     2.06     2.11     2.02      0.72
Recurrent Costs          0.04     0.04     0.05     0.05      0.03
Total Project Costs        0.45     2.10     2.16     2.07      0.75
Total Financing            0.45     2.10     2.16     2.07      0.75
Financing
IDA                     0.30      1.80     1.90     1.80     0.70
Government               0.05     0.12     0.16     0.16      0.05
Bank of Albania         0.10      0.18     0.10     0.11     0.00
Co-financiers           0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Project Financing    0.45     2.10     2.16     2.07      0.75
- 28 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
Procurement
The procurement of goods and services would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999).
The World Bank's standard bidding documents for goods, and the standard forms of contract and request
for proposals will be used under the project. Any goods or services not financed by the World Bank will be
procured in accordance with the public procurement regulations of the country. A General Procurement
Notice was published in the United Nations' Development Business on April 16, 2000. A Special
Procurement Notice for the Savings Bank Privatization Adviser was published electronically on March 27,
2000.
The existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which is managing IDA-financed operations implemented
by the Ministry of Finance, will be responsible for the project's overall implementation and progress
monitoring. The PIU will carry out the day-to-day implementation of the project. It is fully staffed, and
consists of the PIU director who is fully trained in World Bank procurement, a procurement manager (who
attended intensive training in procurement in March 2000), a financial manager/accountant, a secretary and
a driver. The PIU has been formally established as an autonomous entity reporting to the Minister of
Finance but is not part of the Ministry structure.
The Association, in collaboration with the Government, is in the process of updating the Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). The conclusions of the 1997 assessment report found the
institutions in the public sector to be well established and the Public Procurement Law to be quite
comprehensive. However, there is a general lack of awareness about its contents and application and a lack
of strong support and supervision by the Public Procurement Agency for implementation of this law. The
main weaknesses highlighted in the CPAR are: inadequate capacity and capability in the country, for which
important constraints remain the inability to recruit qualified staff and limited available training; and the
lack of country standard procurement documents and manuals. The new CPAR, which is under
preparation, will address the current strengths and weaknesses. It is expected to be finalized shortly.
A Project launch workshop will be conducted immediately after the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement.
- 29 -



Summar  of Procurement Activities Methods, and Schedule
No. of  Estimated  Invitaton/ Preparation of  Evaluation/R  Contract  Contract
Activities                   Type  Method   Con-   Contract   GPN/S-PN  BD/RFP/TOR               ecommendati Signing    Compledon
tracts   Value                 /SSorthCst     on Award
1.1  Consulting services for       CS    QCBS             1   500,000    4/16/00          5/15/00       8/15/00    9/15/00       6/30/01
COO/CAO for SvB
1.2  Consulting services for financial  CS    QCBS          I ,000,000                    4/30/00        8/1/00    8/11/00      12/31/02
sector pnvatization
1.3  Consulting services for MoF   CS    QCBS             2    300,000                     8/30/00      12/1/00    12/l/00      12/31/03
1.4  Consulting services for RTGS    CS    QCBS           1   250,000                       6/l/00      9/20/00    9/30/00      11/15103
system
1.5  Consulting services for
accounting standards and      CS    QCBS             1   200,000                    05/15/00       10/1/00   10/15/00     12/31/02
procedures for banks
1.6  Consulting services for
accounting standards and      CS    QCBS             I   250,000                     9/15S00       lll5/01     2/ll01      6/30/03
procedures for enterprises and
insurance
1.7  Consulting services for insurance CS    QCBS         1   250,000                    06/01/00      12/15/00     1/1/01       3/30/03
reformn
1.8  Consulting services for capital   CS    QCBS         1    150,000                   04/15/02        9/1/02   10/15/02       4/30/03
mar-kets
1.9  Consulting services for advisory  CS    QCBS         1   300,000                     7/15/00      10/15/00    1/15/01       7/30/02
to loan collection agency
1.1  Consulting services for credit    CS    QCBS         I   250,000                      l 15/01      4/15/01     51/01        3/30/02
information bureau-
1.11 Consulting services for audits of  CS    LCS         3   400,000                     6/15/00       ll/l/00   11/15/00       5/30/03
financial institutions*
1.12 Consulting services for project   CS   LCS           Z     60,000                    8/30/00      10/15/00   11/15/00      12/15/04
audits
1.13 Consulting services - short term
advisory for banking services    CS    CQ     multipl    170,000                    07/17/00      10/1/00    1/1/00       12/30/02
1.14 Consultant services for small
assigmnents for advisory on  CS    CQ         multipl   400,000                     09/15/00       2/1/01      3/1/01      3/30/04
insurance policy, legal and
regulatory framework
1.15 Consulting serices for insurance CS    IC            3    180,000                   07/15/00      9/15/00   10/15/00        3/30/04
advisory                                                     ,
1.16 Short -term individual consultants CS    IC    multipl     50,000
- PIU capacity building                                                              6/15/00      9/15/00    10/1/00       6/30/04
2.1  IT for RTGS payment system    G      ICB             1  1,200,000                     6/30/00     10/15/00   11/15100       8/15/04
2.2  IT for MIS/accounting         G      ICB             3    300,000                    11/30/00      4/15/01     6/1/01      10/30/02
2.3  IT equipment (insurance)      G      IS              1    70,000                     12/15/00      2/15/01    2/15/01      12/30/01
2.4  IT/Office equipment           G     NS               2     30,000                    3/15/01       8/15/01    9/15/01      12/30/02
3.1  Incremental Operation Cost. PIU      SOE                  190,000                    in place                              12/30/04
___________ ________ _      Itotal      _  __   6,500,000   _ _ _ _                     _ _  _ _     _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _
* separate contracts for the audits of different entities
QCBS               Quality and Cost-based Selection                    ICB        International Competitive Bidding
CQ                 Selection based on Consultants Qualifications       IS         International Shopping
LCS                Least-cost Selection                                NS         National Shopping
IC                 Selection for Individual Consultants                SOE        Statement of Expenditure
- 30 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Goods:
All contracts for goods estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more each will
be subject to International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for goods estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 equivalent will be procured through international shopping (IS)
procedures, and contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each will be procured
through national shopping (NS) procedures. The aggregate amount of both (IS) and (NS)
shall not exceed US$150,000.
Consulting Services:
(i) Services such payment system specialists, privatization legal advisers, investment bankers,
accounting standards and procedures, banking advisers, insurance advisers, and capital markets specialists
will be procured through Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS).
(ii) Short term assignments such as advisory services for banking privatization, for the Bank of
Albania; as well as for the policy, legal and regulatory framework of the insurance sector (aggregate
amount US$0.57 million) would be selected based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ) criteria. Each
contract shall not exceed US$100,000 equivalent.
(iii) Services such as project audits and bank financial audits (aggregate amount US$0.46 million)
which are standardized and have well established practices will be procured through the least cost (LC)
method of selection.
(iv) Services to strengthen the capabilities of the PIU as well as additional short-term assignments
relating to banking and insurance sector reform, to be defined during project implementation (aggregate
amount US$0.23 million), would be selected through the individual consultant (IC) method. The selection
of individual consultants will be in accordance with provisions 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines on
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
Incremental Operating Costs:
The credit will finance the incremental operating costs of about US$190,000 (representing 90
percent of the overall cost ) of the PIU needs to oversee and manage the project, including: (a) PIU staff
salaries (excluding those for civil servants); (b) communications, travel, maintenance and operation costs
for equipment procured or used under the project; and (c) office furniture and supplies. Incremental
operating costs will be procured on the basis of an annual agreed budget. Office furniture and supplies
shall be procured under NS or commercial practices. Incremental operating costs shall be accounted on
actual bills or costs.
- 31 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
ExpedItueCatg~,t         mG                           O i:;;0h<4;08T   N.BsF.     Toal  os
1. Works                            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                            1.67            0.00           0.14           0.39           2.20
(1.50)         (0.00)         (0.10)         (0.00)         (1.60)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           4.71           0.40           5.11
Consultants               (0.00)         (0.00)         (4.71)         (0.00)         (4.71)
Training
4. Incremental operating            0.00            0.00           0.21           0.01           0.22
expenses
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0. 1 9)       (0.00)         (0. 1 9)
Total                             1.67           0.00           5.06           0.80           7.53
(1.50)         (0.00)         (5.00)         (0.00)         (6.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes goods to be procured through international shopping, national shopping, consulting services,
services and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project.
- 32 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                  Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure      CBS      QEBS      SF8        LCS       CQ       Other      N.B.F.  Total Costs
Category     ____ _     _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
A. Firms           3.45      0.00      0.00       0.46      0.57      0.00      0.30      4.78
(3.45)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.46)    (0.57)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (4.48)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.23      0.10      0.33
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.23)    (0.00)    (0.23)
Total   3.45      0.00      0.00      0.46      0.57      0.23       0.40      5.11
(3.45)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.46)    (0.57)    (0.23)    (0.00)    (4.71)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 33 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All ICB contracts and the first contract under IS and under NS will be subject to prior review by
IDA. Consultants' contracts estimated to cost over US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals,
and all TORs and methods for selection of consultant contracts, irrespective of value, shall be subject to
prior review by IDA. All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post review by IDA's supervision missions
or by focused procurement review or audit missions. The IDA missions will review at least one out of ten
contracts which are subject to post review. The annual budget for the incremental operating costs of the
PIU will be discussed and agreed annually with IDA.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works 
2. Goods                              more than I100                         ICB                              1.67
Less than 100                          IS                              0.05
Less than 50                          NS                              0.02
3. Services                        (Indiv) more than 50                     Other                            0.12
(Firms) more than 100                    QCBS                              3.45
(Firms) more than 100                      CQ                              0.10
_    (Firms) more than 100                     LCS                              0.25
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                $5.66 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Table BI: Summary of Procurement Activities
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
Brief statement
Overall responsibility for Project management and coordination will rest with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established as an autonomous unit
reporting to the Ministry of Finance of Albania The PIU director (who is not a government employee) is fully proficient in World Bank procurement
procedures. A procurement officer has recently completed intensive procurement training in Turin. The PIU has already acquired substantial experience in
managing and administering previous IDA funded projects. The PIU nmay have to supplement its capacity through the use of short-term consultants in the
preparation of the bidding documents for the first year of project implementation
- 34 -



Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:
A CPAR for Albania is currently under preparation. For this Project, the Govemment will follow the agreed Bank procurement procedures as described in
this document and in the Development Credit Agreement.
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by negotiations:  No D x
RFPs and bidding documents for the first year of project implementation are being prepared and will be ready by credit effectiveness.
Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: 9/2000
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: 4/16/2000
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: Yes X
Domestic Preference for Goods             Yes
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable:         NA
Retroactive financing:                                  No
Advance procurement:                                    No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires IDA's prior review will be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff(PAS) and relevant technical staff.
No packages above mandatory review thresholds by RPA are anticipated. The PIU of the Borrower will maintain complete procurement files which will
be reviewed by IDA supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually. Procurement information will be recorded by the PIU and
submitted to IDA as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This information will include: revised cost estimates for the different contracts;
revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; as well as compliance
with aggregate limits (within 15%) on specific methods of procurement. A Management Infornation System (MIS), with a procurement module, will help
the PIU monitor all procurement infortnation.
Co-financing:. None
Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staffor Bank's staffpart ofTask Team responsible for the procurement in the Albania: Financial Sector Institution Building
TA Project
Name: Seyoum Solomon         Ext: 32393
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: There is no procurement capacity at the Country Office in Tirana.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 35-



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit will be administered by the PIU. The Credit is expected to be
fully disbursed over 4.5 years. IDA will finance: (i) 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services; (ii)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for direct imports of goods, 100 percent of local ex-factory costs for
locally manufactured goods and 80 percent of local expenditures for other goods procured locally, and (iii)
90 percent of incremental operating costs.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
E.edtr CategcRr                 Amun i7W   g:' :t0u .nVrWin .  i:0 :.Fnancin"Pe!e:00 t  .0
Goods                                       1.50            100 foreign/100 local (ex-factory cost)
and 80 local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultant services and related             4.20                          100
expenditures
Incremental operating expenses              0.19                           90
Unallocated                                 0.61
Total Project Costs                         6.50
.Total                                       6.50
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
(a)    Goods: expenditures under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent
(b)   Consulting firms: contracts estimated at less than US$100,000 equivalent
(c)   Individual consultants: contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent
(d)   Incremental operating costs: all contracts
Documentation supporting the SOEs will be retained by the PIU and made available for review by IDA
supervision missions and auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in a commercial bank. The authorized
allocation of the Special Account will be US$600,000, representing approximately four months of eligible
expenditures. Upon effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may withdraw US
$300,000, representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation. When the funds withdrawn from the Credit
Account and any outstanding Special Commitments amount to SDR 1,000,000, the Borrower may
withdraw the remaining amount of US$300,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
Replenishment applications are to be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
The commercial bank holding the SA will be chosen on the basis of open competitive bidding. In order to
be permitted to bid, a commercial bank must:
- 36 -



(a) be financially sound as demonstrated by its latest accounts, audited by an internationally recognized
audit firm;
(b)  have significant foreign correspondence banking in all major currencies;
(c)  have some experience, or at least the capacity to acquire experience, in issuing letters of credit and
transacting direct foreign payments;
(d)  be a member of SWIFT, or plan to use the facility to expedite payments;
(e)  issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the SA will not be set, seized or otherwise
attached to satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by the Borrower;
(f)  be willing and able to adequately maintain accounts as required by IDA, including regular
statements, and any other information that may be considered necessary; and
(g)  charge competitive rates for services and other transactions fees.
Financial Management
General: The PIU in the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the overall financial management of
the project. The PIU will, amongst other things, oversee and coordinate the project, manage project
expenditures from the Special Account, ensure compliance with the Development Credit Agreement, and
maintain the project's financial records.
Accounting systems: The PIU is currently improving its existing accounting system to establish a sound
fmancial management system to properly manage the accounting, reporting and financing of the project
according to the Bank requirements. To this end, the PIU already has entered into a contract, with
financing from an ongoing IDA-credit, to develop a fully automated system. Under this contract, a short
term accounting consultant is providing support to the PIU and the PIU financial manager/accountant in
the: (i) design and implementation of the improved project accounting and financial management system;
(ii) drafting of the accounting and financial manual; and (iii) implementation of an integrated accounting
and financial software. The timetable for the design, implementation and computerization of the accounting
and financial system is as follows:
- design, implementation and computerization
of the upgraded accounting and financial system                      April 10, 2000
- finalization of the accounting manual                               May 8, 2000
- production of quarterly PMR reports satisfactory to the Association  June 30, 2001
Staffing: The PIU financial manager/accountant will be responsible for the accounting and financial
activities. The short-term accounting consultant will provide support to the PIU in this task so that the
improved systems are in place prior to Board presentation.
Disbursements Mechanism: The Project will initially disburse under the Association's traditional
disbursement procedures, including the use of Statement of Expenditure (SOE), with the option of moving
to the Project Management Reports (PMR)-based disbursement method at a future time, with the mutual
agreement of the Borrower and the Association. A Special Account will be opened and managed by the
PIU at a bank acceptable to the Association.
Internal Controls: The accounting and financial manual, that is under preparation by the PIU accountant
with the support of the short term accounting consultant, will detail, among other things, the operational
procedures and controls.
Audit Arrangements: The accounts and financial statements of the project will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association. The audited annual project financial statements will be submitted to
- 37 -



the Bank within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The audit will be carried out in accordance with
International Standards of Auditing. The audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project
and the Terms of Reference of the auditors should include both an audit of financial transactions and an
assessment of the operation of the financial management system, including the review of the internal control
mechanisms. The PIU will provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and records, and
information required by the auditor for the purpose of the audit. Auditors will be appointed by the Ministry
of Finance to carry out this audit as part of an overall agreement for the audit of the IDA-financed
portfolio. Financing for the project-related audit will be provided for under the proposed project.
Reporting Arrangements: In addition to the submission of annual audited financial statements, the PIU
will provide quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs).
- 38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
STime taken to prepare the project (months)                                 4      -
First Bank mission (identification)            11/06/99                     11/06/99
Appraisal mission departure                    03/05/2000                   02/20/2000
Negotiations                                   04/18/2000                   04/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/08/2000
Prepared by:
Government and Bank
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name
Rochelle Hilton                  Task Team Leader
Tunc Uyanik                      Financial Sector/Banking
Hormoz Aghdaey                   Financial Sector/Banking
Marie-Sophie Tar                 Financial Analyst
Rodney Lester                    Insurance
Seyoum Solomon                   Procurement (PAS)
Ibrahim Sirer                    Procurement Adviser
Sandro Michiei                   Financial Management Specialist
Silvia Minotti                    Capital Markets
Greta Minxhozi                   Project Officer
Ahmed Jehani                     Sr. Counsel
Junko Funahashi                  Counsel
Rohit Mehta                      Sr. Disbursement Officer
Hannah Thomas Dwuma              Team Assistant
-39 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Procurement Capacity Assessment
Financial Management Assessment Certificate
C. Other
Information on Savings Bank:
Governance Contract
1997-1999 IAS audits
Draft Strategy for Bank Restructuring (March 2000)
Analysis of Deposits (12/99)
Strategic Plan ((10/99)
Management Report (12/99)
Bank of Ireland Final Report (12/99)
Bank of Albania: User Requirements for RTGS
User Requirements for Accounting and Treasury System
INSIG:
Laws/Statutes/Regulations relating to the establishment of INSIG
Strategy for INSIG
INSIG's Plan for Operational Restructuring
*Including electronic files
-40 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
(as of 3/31/2000)
Difference Between
Expected and Actual
Original Amount in US$ Mi    Disbursements 2
Project    FY    Boffower            Purpose            IBRD    IDA   Cancel. Undisb.       Orig.  Frm
IDRed
P008260   1994  Albania   DURRES WATER SUPPLY              0.00   11.60    0.00    2.19       1.37     0.00
P008253    1995  Albania   HEALTH SERVICES REHA            0.00   12.40    0.00    3.60       4.07     0.00
P008267   1995  Albania   RURAL ROADS                      0.00   15.00    0.00    0.67       1.75    -5.91
P008272   1995  Albania   TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.             0.00    4.00    0.00    1.40       1.33     0.00
P035787   1996  Albania   AGROPROCESSING DEVEL             0.00    6.00    0.00    1.81       2.11     0.00
P008271    1996  Albania   FORESTRY                        0.00    8.00    0.00    4.74       2.50     0.00
P036060   1996  Albania   NATIONAL ROADS                   0.00   25.00    0.00   11.89       9.48     0.00
P034491    1996  Albania   POWER TRANSM. & DIST            0.00   29.50    0.00   18.12      19.83     0.00
P040818   1998  Albania   DURRES PORT                      0.00   17.00    0.00   15.26       9.18     0.00
P045312   1998  Albania   HEALTH RECOVERY                  0.00   17.00    0.00   16.29       7.45     0.00
P040975   1998  Albania   LAND DEVELOPMENT                 0.00   10.00    0.00    9.34       3.50     0.00
P051602   1998  Albania   PRIVATE INDUSTRY REC             0.00   10.25    0.00    6.79       6.94     0.00
P054384   1998  Albania   RECOVERY PROG. TA                0.00    5.00    0.00    1.89       0.93     0.00
P051309   1999  Albania   COMMUNITY WORKS /I               0.00   14.00    0.00   12.10       1.14     0.00
P043178   1999  Albania  IRRIG. & DRAINAGE II              0.00   24.00    0.00   22.07      -0.37     0.00
P051310   1999  Albania   MICROCREDIT                      0.00   12.00    0.00   11.18      -0.21     0.00
P055160   1999  Albania   SAC                              0.00   45.00    0.00   25.08      24.86     0.00
P068853   2000  Albania   EMG ROAD REPAIR                  0.00   13.65    0.00   13.29       0.00     0.00
P057182   2000  Albania   LEG/JUD REFORM                   0.00    9.00    0.00    8.88       0.00     0.00
P069939   2000  Albania   PUB ADM REF                      0.00    8.50    0.00    8.51       0.00     0.00
P066491   2000  Albania   WS URG REHAB                     0.00   10.00    0.00    9.83       0.00     0.00
Total Active Projects           0.00  306.90    0.00  204.93     95.86    -5.91
/I Community Works and its supplemental project are counted as one operation
/2 Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal
- 41 -



Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
As of 313112000
(In Millions US Dollars)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company          Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998 AAP                 0    28.5      0      0    0   8.04      0     0
1999 SEFEurotech        1.2       0     0      0   1.2     0      0     0
1999 SEFFEFADBank         0    1.01     0      0    0       0     0     0
Total Portfolio:        1.2  29.51      0      0   1.2  8.04      0     0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic
2000 NCB                  0    22.5     0      0
1998 Patos Marinza     30.0       0     0   50.0
Total Pending Commitment:    30.0   22.5     0   50.0
-42 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance
-          -                     ~~~~~~~~Euro  &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           entr      LOW-
AJAania     Asia -lc           Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (miffions)                      3.4      .  47S                         Life expectancy
GNP per capit (Atlas mefd, US$SJ'                    81O     21Z0      I.710
GNP (Atas methofd, us$ brto                          2.7      1,039    1,557.
Average annualgrowth, 199248
Populaten (%)                                        0.8       0;1       1.1
Labor ore (%)                                        1.2       0.6       tS      GNP                             Gross
Poverty f~~6 of populatIon beownaionats~~ovetly floe)  ..    per                           primary
Most reent estimate (Istest Yea avahabe, 1992-98)                                capita                      enrollment
Povedy o dpob7n b onab Wpoverty kei   )              
Urbanpopulation(%tootal ppu/forv)                     38        68        58
feexpectancyat bit(years)                             72       68         68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Wie birlhsY               26        23        38
Child malnutritio (% Ofchidrn under 5)                           , ,                       Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of poptation)                 76         -        75
iliteracy ( of pdofuatibrr age 1,5+)                   .         4        t4
Gross primaryenrdi ment (%o schow gopulation)        107       100       103                Albania
Male                      -tO                                t0-    10S                    Low-income group
Female                                             $08        99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
19777    tSg       1997     1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ bifions)                            .      22        2.3       3.0
Gross domestic investmrentGDP                 *,    28.4       160      16.0
ExportsofgoodsandservicestGOP     ..                15        1O.S       9.Tr
Gross dicts savingstGOP.                      .    2&3          91       -68.7
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..      ..        40       99
Current acount balance/GOP                   ..      0.2      -2Z1 t             Domestic
Inerst payrnntsGOP                            ..     0.0        0.9      0.2                                Investment
TotW debt/GDP                                                 309   -         9  Savings                      nvte
Total debt seviceexports                     ..        .       72        2.2
Presentvalueofdebt/GDP                    . . :               21.0
Present value of deexpots                    ..       ..      72.0
Indebtedness
197747  198848    1997        199B   199-03
(avewage annual growth,
GOP                                 1.9    -0.5    -7.0        8.0                       -Albania
GNP per capita                      ..      8.1-  6-9            1                             Low-income grop
Exports of oods and seices           .     13.6    -29.5       17,0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  ..    33.2       56.0      54.4 A
Industry                                     ..    45.8       23.6      24.5    20-
Manufacturing                               ,.       ..        ..        ..    ioo -
Services                                     ..    21.0       20.4      21.0         o    g     _   -    _ _       -
Private consumption                                 62.0      97.7      96.5   .100l    93   94   95   96  97  98
General govemment consumption                 ..     9.6       11.4     10.2 2GDi                       GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..    15.6      35.7      32.2
(average annua/ growth)                 1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agrculture                                  2.4      5.5        1.0      5.0    300
Industry                                    2.2    -8.4       -5.9      12.2    20
Manufacturing                               ..       ..        ..        ..       I
Services                                    0.6      0.4     -24.4      11.3    100l-
Private consumption                           ..     6.1      -9.3      10.1      o -
General govemment consumption                 ..    -3.9     -16.5      -0.6             93   94   95  95           98
Gross domestic investment                   -0.6    19.9      -4.1      21.0    loD
Imports of goods and services                 ..    16.7     -20.2      16.1            -Exports          rrimports
Gross national product                       ..      6.5      -8.1       7. 1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 43 -



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domest/c prices1S
(% chanqe)                                                                         T60
Consumer pnces                                  ..      ..       33.2      21.9    120
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..       ..       30.8      24.8     80o
Govemment finance                                                                   40-
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  0
Current revenue                                 ..    49.2       16.8      20.3       93     94      95    g6      97    9a
Current budget balance                         ..    23.7        -8.6      -5.3             -     GDP deflator  OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -1.7       -12.6    -10.4
TRADE
(UIS$ millions)1977                                   1987      1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                    311        167      205      1000
Minerals and fuels                            ..       ,.        46        57
Food, beverage, and tobacco                                      18       22       750
Manufactures                                  ..       ..        99       122
Total imports (fob)                            ..      316        685      826        :
Food                                          .        ..       164       197      2
Fuel and energy                               ..       ..        71        86
Capital goods                                                    99       120        o
92  92  94  ss  943  07  99
Export price index (1993=100)                  ..                                              93  94 ..
Import price index (1993=100)                   ..                                              Exports     d Imports
Terms of trade (1993=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio 1%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..    334        239       289       0                                     l
Imports of goods and services                   ..    336        816       980      10S                 U
Resource balance                                ..       2       -577     -691
20
Net income                                      ..       0        51        65
Net current transfers                          ..       ..       250       440      2      .'
Current account balance                        ..        5       -276     -186    -40
Financing items (net)                          ..        7       303       257    -so
Changes in net reserves                        ..      -12        -27      -71    460
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..       ..       342       401
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               ..      8.0      149.6    151.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..       ..        706      820
IBRD                                         ..       ..         0         0                      G:35
IDA                                           .        ..      148       220
Total debt service                                                 39       37                           l       3:220
IBRD                                          .        .         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                 77        89
Official creditors                            .                 46        79                                      Q6
Private creditors                                               -1         0
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..        42        45                                  D: 21
Portfolio equity                             ..         ..       0         0                       E:2
World Bank program
Commitments                                                     34        54      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..       ..        19        64      B-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          .        ..        0         0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     ..      ..        19        64
Interest payments                            ..       ..         1         1
Net transfers                                ..       ..        18        63
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/17/99
- 44-



