                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34694

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-33620)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.9 MILLION
                                   (US$6.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                                ALBANIA

                                                 FOR A

                           FINANCIAL SECTOR INSTITUTION BUILDING
                                TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                           November 14, 2005




Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective Occtober 31, 2005)

                   Currency Unit = Lek
                           Lek 1 = US$ 0.01
                           US$ 1 = Lek 102.7

                         FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 -      December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACHS   -   Albanian Clearing House System (Bulk Clearing System
BoA    -   Bank of Albania
BART   -   Bank Asset Resolution Trust (Loan Collection Agency - LCA)
CAS    -   Country Assistance Strategy
CEO    -   Chief Executive Officer
CIB    -   Credit Information Bureau
EBRD   -   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECSPF  -   Europe and Central Asia, Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
EU     -   European Union
FSAC   -   Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSIBTA -   Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance Project
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
IAS    -   International Accounting Standards
IDA    -   International Development Association
IDP    -   Institutional Development Plan for the Bankruptcy Framework
IFC    -   International Finance Corporation
IFI    -   International Financial Institution
IMF    -   International Monetary Fund
INSIG  -   Insurance Institute of Albania
ISA    -   Insurance Supervision Agency (formerly ISC - Insurance Supervision
           Commission)
MoF    -   Ministry of Finance
NCB    -   National Commercial Bank
NSSED  -   National Strategy for Social and Economic Development
PAD    -   Project Appraisal Document
PIU    -   Project Implementation Unit
PRGF   -   Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC   -   Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP   -   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RCB    -   Rural Commercial Bank
RPTA   -   Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
RTGS   -   Real Time Gross Settlement
SOE        -        Statement of Expenditure
SvB    -   Savings Bank
TA     -   Technical Assistance
TPL    -   Third Party Liability Motor Insurance
TSE    -   Tirana Stock Exchange

                 Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos

               Sector Manager   Fernando Montes-Negret
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Silvia Minotti

                                           ALBANIA
              Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 6
6. Sustainability                                                                     7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    9
9. Partner Comments                                                                   9
10. Additional Information                                                            9
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                10
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                11
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                13
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                14
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                16
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   17
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               18

Project ID: P069079                                                  Project Name: Financial Sector Institution Building
                                                                     Technical Assistance Project
Team Leader: Silvia Minotti                                          TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical          L/C/TF Number: IDA-33620
                            Assistance Project
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (27%); General finance sector
                            (25%); Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement (25%);
                            Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual savings (18%);
                            Banking (5%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Legal
                            institutions for a market economy (P); Infrastructure services for
                            private sector development (P); Regulation and competition policy
                            (P); Standards and financial reporting (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/14/2000                                     Effective: 08/23/2000                08/23/2000
     Appraisal: 02/22/2000                                         MTR: 12/31/2002                  10/25/2002
      Approval: 06/01/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ALBANIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; ALBANIA/BANK OF ALBANIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Silvia Minotti                                 Rochelle Hilton
ICR Primary Author:             Rochelle Hilton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's main development objective was to strengthen the financial sector, focusing on the banking
and insurance industries. The project was to achieve this objective by providing technical assistance to
the Government in furthering the implementation of key areas of its financial sector strategy, including (i)
completion of its bank privatization program; (ii) improving financial infrastructure; and (iii) privatization
of the insurance sector.

The objectives reflected the highest priorities of the Government for the financial sector as well as the
Bank's strategic assistance priorities described in the 1998 and 2002 CAS. The FSIBTA essentially
continued implementation of the strategy that was agreed during the previous operation (Recovery
Program Technical Assistance Project, RPTA, 1998) supporting and complementing, by design, the
closely related policy-based operation (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, FSAC, 2002) (see FSAC
ICR, No.32646, June 20, 2005). The project's objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy
to exit from major ownership interests in the financial sector and to strengthen the financial sector
environment and infrastructure as an important prerequisite for private sector growth and development.

The project objective was realistic and necessarily fairly general. This permitted a degree of flexibility
that is highly desirable in a technical assistance operation to facilitate timely response to evolving needs.
At the same time, it was, however, challenging as questions relating to privatization are generally
politically sensitive; in regard to the financial sector, have high visibility; and are often controversial. The
flexibility allowed for the employment of experienced international experts in specialized areas when
needed (such as for providing valuations of financial sector entities) to guarantee the objectivity of the
advice. This helped the Ministry of Finance (MoF) to assure possible detractors of the integrity and
transparency of the related privatization processes. The objectives were also realistic in terms of
recognizing the institutional constraints of the various beneficiary agencies and the demonstrated
capacity of the implementing agency to manage and administer the overall program. The project's
overall risk rating was substantial at appraisal. The riks mitigation factors were appropriate and effective.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following components:
(i) Support for the Savings Bank Privatization (US$2.08 million). This included advisory services to
support the privatization effort, through direct support to both the Savings Bank to help in strengthening
the bank and defensive restructuring to improve its attractiveness to strategic investors, and to the MoF
to help in the preparation and implementation of the privatization process itself.
(ii) Strengthening financial infrastructure (US$3.05 million). This included institutional development,
including for the establishment and operation of a modern automated payments system for both large
value and retail payment clearing and settlement, establishment of an automated bank treasury system
for the Bank of Albania (BoA), and support to implement the Government's accounting reform program.
(iii) Insurance reform and privatization of INSIG (US$1.46 million).
(iv) Capital markets development (US$0.15 million).
(v) Support for project management/implementation (U$0.34 million).

The components were clearly linked to the project development objective. Components (i), (ii), (iii) and
(iv) provided technical assistance designed to facilitate implementation of the Government's financial
sector reform program that was supported by the FSAC (2002). The fact that approval of the FSIBTA
preceded that of the FSAC helped ensure that adequate expertise as well as institutional and technical
support was available to the authorities to maintain momentum in the implementation of the reform
program. Component (v) ensured that adequate capacity was available for the management,
administration and monitoring of the project activities, taking into account the extensive experience that
the PIU had demonstrated through its good performance in the management of preceding operations



                                                       - 2 -

(the PIU was established in the early 1990s).

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is rated as satisfactory, based on the timeliness of the assistance program, the
consistency of the project objective with the Government's financial sector development priorities, the
design of the project which was flexible, incorporated realistic indicators and took into account the
capacity of the implementing agency, as well as on accurate identification of project risks, its
complementarity to other Bank operations (such as the RPTA and, notably, the FSAC) and other donor
activities (especially the IMF and USAID/US Treasury). The 2002 CAS commented that the project (and
the RPTA) "were well timed and designed to address the most crucial elements of financial sector
reform. They were highly effective in contributing to Albania's noteworthy achievements in this area."
Although the project was not subject to a QAG quality at entry review, it was included in the QAG
"Country Lending Assessment (April 14, 2004)." That Assessment found that the FSIBTA Project was
"an effective instrument to complement the IMF's PRGF and the Bank's FSAC. It was competently
designed and takes effectively into account the work of other development partners. A particularly
noteworthy aspect of this operation is the decision not to have a banking supervision component given
the work carried out by the IMF and others in this area... The availability of the FSIBTA Project ensured
the technical quality of the advice to the Government and the Bank of Albania. Along with a PHRD
Grant, the FSIBTA Project also supported the components of the FSAC."

The Project was consistent with the 1998 and 2002 CAS to increase private sector development.
Strengthening of the financial sector, especially the banking system and related infrastructure,
regulations and institutions, was recognized as a necessary precondition for stimulating private sector
growth.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project objectives is rated satisfactory overall. The project has achieved
substantial and sustainable development results in the financial sector, with one shortcoming. The
project's results - privatization of Savings Bank and INSIG and private ownership of the banking sector -
are irreversible. In regard to the insurance sector, much more support is needed to help establish
effective supervision and enforcement of regulations, this is a long-term endeavor.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Savings Bank Privatization ($2.08 million PAD; $1.75 million actual): This component is rated highly
satisfactory. Comprehensive advisory services were provided to achieve the ultimate goal of the bank's
privatization, although this took longer than originally anticipated and the first attempt to sell the bank
was not successful due to the situation in the international financial markets. Assistance was provided to
both the bank and the Government to ensure consistency of approach. Resident advisors in the Savings
Bank were instrumental in completing the public offering package and ensuring that the bank followed
through on limited restructuring efforts to maintain or increase the bank's attractiveness to foreign
investors. These efforts were complemented by the services of a resident privatization advisor for the
MoF (as the representative of the owner of the bank) and legal advice. All of these actions eventually
culminated in the most successful privatization to date in Albanian history. The process was publicly
recognized as being transparent and not only resulted in a much higher sales price than had been
expected but successfully introduced into the Albanian banking system a highly reputable West
European bank. The presence of this bank (since early 2004) has been an important factor in the
improved performance of the banking sector, in terms of competition, the provision of banking services
for both the business and household sector throughout the country, and increased intermediation. As of
end-September 2004, banks' aggregate returns on assets and equity increased, respectively, to 1.4 and
23.7 percent from 1.2 and 19.5 at end-2003. Banks' operational efficiency (as measured by non-interest



                                                     - 3 -

expenses to gross income) increased from 64.0 percent (at the end of 2003) to 61.2 at the end of
September 2004, while increased competition led to a decrease of the interest margin-to-gross income
ratio from 89.6 in December 2003 to 87.1 in September 2004. The successful privatization also
provided the motivation to the Government to divest its remaining minority interest in two other small
banks. At the MoF's request, the Bank granted a waiver to the Credit Agreement so that Project funds
could be used to support this effort.

Financial Infrastructure ($3.05 million PAD; $4.16 million actual): This component is rated
satisfactory and included several subcomponents: (i) Following on the preparatory work financed under
the preceding RPTA Project (1998), the FSIBTA supported the further development and installation of
the Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS) - the interbank settlement system - through the
provision of the system as well as supporting advisory services. The RTGS was successfully installed
and went live in January 2004. All banks are linked to the system which has substantially improved the
efficiency and security of the bank payments. Associated with the RTGS, the FSIBTA has also
supported the development and implementation of the bulk clearing system for retail payments (the
Albanian Clearing House System, ACHS). The ACHS was completed in mid-2005 and together the two
systems, which now operate in line with internationally acceptable standards, have played an important
part in the further development of banking services, such as the rapid growth of ATMs, which can now be
seen throughout Tirana and other major cities. The Credit Agreement was amended to permit this
funding, to replace the originally intended establishment of a Credit Information Bureau (CIB) in the BoA.
To complement the establishment of the modern payments system, the project also supported the
establishment of an automated treasury/MIS system in the BoA. This system, which is totally
compatible with the payments system, has been operational since November 2002.

Although substantial work was carried out for the development of the CIB, following the authorities'
agreement with the GtZ in 2001 to develop the system, this work was essentially curtailed. Unfortunately,
the effort with the GtZ did not materialize at an affordable cost for the small Albanian banking system,
and the program was eventually terminated in 2002. Although, at the BoA's request, project support was
again initiated in early 2003, it was subsequently cancelled as the Albanian Bankers' Association
indicated that it would prefer to develop this facility without the involvement of the BoA. When the
Bankers' Associations' efforts failed, the BoA's new management re-requested for the project's
assistance. Unfortunately, once again, this initiative was unsuccessful as insufficient time was available
to permit BoA's renewed efforts to be supported by the project. However, much preparatory work was
done under the project and the BoA has repeated its request for the Bank's financial support in this area
from alternative sources.

This component also provided extensive support to the MoF to design, develop and introduce national
accounting standards that are consistent with international standards and EU directives. Legal,
accounting and auditing expertise was provided to review and revise the Accounting Law, develop the
standards and provide training in their application. Large enterprises are already reporting in accordance
with international standards (IFRS). Most small and medium enterprises (SMEs) would have revenues
that fall below this reporting threshold and would therefore be subject to the new national accounting
standards.

Finally, the expertise provided by a long-term resident advisor, supplemented with short-term specialists
and limited office equipment were instrumental in improving the operational efficiency and effectiveness
of the Loan Collection Agency (BART/LCA). The long-term advisor helped develop a global strategy
for BART which established a phased, step-by-step program for collecting outstanding loans. Successful
implementation of this program helped improve the professionalism of BART's staff as well as develop a
more disciplined credit culture. The results have been tangible and, by 2003, BART was posting
impressive results. By end-2004, the value of BART's portfolio had declined by almost 38 percent (well
above the targets established under the project). BART has transferred to the MoF US$34 million by
end-November 2005. However, a large number of cases are awaiting court decisions and there is a
backlog in the sale of assets (recovered) due to inefficiencies in the bailiff's system and because of legal
requirements relating to public auction procedures, which impose a floor on the value for which property




                                                      - 4 -

can be sold. The lack of capacity of the court system was correctly identified as a risk in the PAD.
Under the current legislation, BART would cease to exist by end 2005. Actions are underway in this
regard.

Insurance Reform - INSIG ($1.46 million PAD; $0.94 million actual): This component is rated
marginally satisfactory. It comprised two main subcomponents. The first subcomponent, which
supported the authorities in the design and implementation of a strategy for the privatization of INSIG
(the state-owned insurance company), was satisfactory. To this end, substantial assistance was provided
to both the MoF and to INSIG, in the design of the strategy, as well as in improving INSIG's operational
efficiency and increasing its attractiveness to investors. This assistance also included financing the
valuation of the company and international audits. Close collaboration was maintained with IFC and
EBRD, who acquired a 39 percent ownership interest in INSIG in 2003, in accordance with a previously
concluded pre-privatization agreement. A decision on the timing for offering the balance of INSIG
shares was to be made jointly by the Government and the institutional investors, at a time they deemed
that the international insurance market would be interested in such an investment. In view of the
investment by the above two institutions, further support from the IDA Credit (such as for modernizing
INSIG's management information system) was unnecessary. The second subcomponent, which focused
on strengthening the legal and regulatory environment, was marginally unsatisfactory. Substantial
assistance was provided to improve insurance-related legislation and Albania now has in place basic
legislation (including two major laws and a number of regulations) that is largely consistent with EU
requirements. However, the Insurance Supervision Authority (ISA) has not been able to establish itself as
a credible regulator. Frequent changes in ISA's top management, ISA's lack of expertise in insurance
matters and weak governance have negatively affected ISA's reputation in the insurance market. This
has negatively affected ISA's ability to conduct effective supervision and enforce regulations. While
regulations were prepared and staff skills have improved, the record of ISA as a regulator has been
disappointing. ISA's performance has been weak, particularly in the area of compulsory motor insurance
(third part liability), where it has been unable to enforce regulations relating to the pricing of such
insurance. Although the FSAC included conditionality in this area, including the adoption of satisfactory
regulations on minimum premiums and reserving for third party insurance, implementation has been
poor and insurance companies continue to cut premiums for motor third party liability insurance. The
results of the technical assistance to ISA did not have desired outcome in terms of capacity building and
helping the ISA to become an effective regulator.

Capital Markets ($0.15 million PAD; $0.14 million actual): This component is rated satisfactory.
Limited support was provided under the project to help formulate a strategy for the establishment and
operations of an Albanian Stock Exchange, including looking at the options for using other exchanges in
the region rather than developing a national capacity. Although the small market and lack of large,
potentially tradable public companies would suggest that a local exchange may not be viable, the study
suggested that should Albania wish to develop its stock exchange, it should make every effort to do this
at least cost possible.

Project Management/Implementation ($0.34 million PAD; $0.16 million actual): This component is
rated highly satisfactory. Reviews of financial management and procurement performance were
consistently rated highly and the PIU has been recognized as one of the best in Albania. Reports were
complete and provided in a timely manner. Initially, project audits were to be financed from the Credit
but during project implementation a decision was made at the country level to carry out the audits of all
IDA-financed credits in Albania under a single contract, managed by the MoF and directly financed from
the budget. This freed up project funds allocated for this purpose for other activities but also led to the
tardy completion of audit reports because of delays attributable to other projects and the lengthy
contracting process, both of which were beyond the control of the FSIBTA project and the PIU.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:




                                                      - 5 -

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was high. Improvements have been demonstrated in the
institutional capacity of all of the entities benefiting from the project. Notably, BART became an effective
and well-run loan collection agency. Even the ISA, which remains a relatively weak regulator, through
the improved regulation and capacity building of staff is better equipped to regulate the market. The
professionalism and technical skills of its staff have improved and management continues to seeks ways
to improve the conduct of its regulatory mandate, in a difficult environment. The project support was
critical in transforming the Savings Bank into an attractive investment, and in offering and concluding its
sale to a reputable European bank. The implementation of the payments system has had a major impact
on the development of the financial sector and is facilitating the gradual migration from cash and
cheques to electronic payments. The PIU grew into a well-functioning unit and its staff were frequently
enlisted to support other PIUs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The unfavorable situation in international financial markets led to the initial failure to privatize Savings
Bank. After this failure, the decision to offer the bank as a whole was re-examined. The approach was
found to be sound and a decision made to intensify marketing efforts and re-offer the bank once the
environment improved. Given the importance of this privatization to the Government, the delay diverted
the attention of the Government from moving ahead with other privatizations. However, following the
successful outcome of this privatization, the Government has moved ahead fairly quickly with a program
to divest itself of minority holdings that it held in two other banks. The Bank granted a waiver to the
Credit Agreement to allow advisory services to assist the MoF in preparing for the sale of these assets.
The situation in the international financial markets has also been a major factor in delaying offering
INSIG for sale to strategic investors.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A major factor affecting the outcome was the continued Government commitment that helped maintain
the momentum for the overall reform program supported by the project. This commitment was
reinforced through the complementarity of this project with the FSAC, which helped focus the authorities
on the objectives of the financial sector reform program. This commitment was reflected in many ways,
including the readiness of the high level officials to discuss issues, problems, progress or concerns, and
to strengthen the management of specific agencies if necessary (such as in the case of BART). On the
less positive side, the situation in the insurance market was a cause for concern throughout the project
and in spite of attempts to address problems, enforcement of the regulations remains weak and
governance continues to be poor.

There was occasional reluctance to take actions in cases where the Borrower was not satisfied with the
work of some consultants. Although the performance of consultants was generally high, problems
surfaced in three cases, two in the case of the Savings Bank and one relating to the ISA. In the first
case, the MoF acted very swiftly to require specific steps and changes to replace a resident adviser in
the Savings Bank. In the other cases, while the PIU closely monitored the situation and extensive
discussions were held with the Bank on steps that could be taken to address the problems, the authorities
were sometimes slow to take definitive actions to resolve them. This reluctance stemmed from a
number of considerations, including the belief that the experts were providing some valuable services,
the documentation to justify termination was perhaps incomplete or the concern over the expense that
would be incurred and time lost in seeking replacements would be more costly to the overall goals than
retaining the services.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Good working level counterpart arrangements were maintained throughout the project. PIU staff
performed their duties with a high-level of professionalism and commitment. Continuity of this staffing



                                                        - 6 -

was a positive factor in the project's successful outcome and no issues arose during project
implementation relating to procurement or financial management.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost is $7.15 million, about 95 percent of the PAD estimate of $7.53 million. The actual
amount financed from the IDA Credit was $6.65 million (SDR 4.78 million), about 2 percent more than
the PAD estimate of $6.5 million (in SDR terms about 98 percent - SDR 4.8 million - of the Credit was
disbursed). Fluctuation of the US dollar to the SDR is the main reason for the diffference in the amount
of the IDA funding. In addition, in view of the IFC and EBRD investment in INSIG, only limited support
for this entity was provided under the project. As a consequence, this made possible a larger share of
financing from the Credit for the Financial Infrastructure Component, especially for the bulk clearing
system (ACHS). Most of the project expenditures were in foreign currency (about 93 percent) and
payments were made through the special account. During project implementation counterpart funding
was provided in a timely manner and no problems were encountered with the flow of funds. Following
the closing of the project account, SDR 128,471.89 (US$182,342.72 equivalent) of the Credit was
cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as highly likely. The reforms supported by the project's technical
assistance have been far-reaching and comprehensive and results are already being seen in the overall
health of the financial sector. All banks are privately owned, professionalism of the banking sector has
improved and public confidence in the banking sector has increased. The successful privatization of the
Savings Bank has increased the confidence of the Government in adhering to well-defined strategies and
courses of action. BART's improved strategy proved to be effective and has been instrumental in
helping to build a credit culture with good repayment records. Implementation of a modern payments
system has promoted the development of new means of payments in a safe and secure environment,
and contributed to increased public confidence in the banking sector. Although more needs to be done
to continue to deepen financial sector reforms, especially in regard to effective supervision of the
insurance market, the project has contributed substantially to the achievements to date. These
achievements, which are generally confirmed by the findings of the recent FSAP, are considered to be
irreversible and are expected to continue to contribute to the growth of the private sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government is committed to continuing its reform program and is seeking funding to fully implement
the accounting reform program, as well as support for strengthening the supervision of non-bank
financial institutions, especially insurance. Overall, project-supported activities have already been
incorporated into the regular operations of most of the project beneficiaries. For example, the improved
infrastructure in the BoA is working effectively and operational expenses are adequately supported by
the BoA's own budget or by fees from commercial banks as appropriate. In addition, the Government is
in the process of selling its remaining ownership interest in the banking sector. Future activities should
focus on eliminating constraints to private sector development, including questions relating to access to
finance.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. From identification through preparation and appraisal, the project took into account the
country's development priorities, built on previous operations (especially the RPTA Project, 1998) and
lessons learned. The project objectives were clearly defined and performance indicators realistic. The
project benefited from the synergies with the planned policy-based operation (the FSAC, 2002). Close
coordination was maintained with other donors, including the IMF, IFC, USAID/Treasury, GtZ and DFID,
to ensure complementarity of activities and avoid duplication of effort. For example, an early decision
was made that the IMF and US would cover the needs for strengthening banking supervision. The Bank



                                                      - 7 -

appraisal mission included banking, insurance, capital markets, debt workout, accounting, financial
management and procurement experts, as well as experts in Bank operations.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Formal supervision missions were supplemented with short technical visits (particularly for
the insurance sector), as well as by video and audio conferences. As most staff also worked on the
related FSAC, synergies were realized, in both substance and cost. Field office staff played a critical
and substantive role in the overall success of the program, including project management. Good
coordination with donors was maintained throughout the implementation period (for example, with GtZ in
regard to the establishment of the CIB). The project closed on time, funds were virtually 100 percent
disbursed and there were no major deviations from Bank policies and procedures. Three minor
amendments were made to adjust funds among disbursement categories and to permit financing of
procurement of IT hardware and software for the MoF to strengthen the Borrower's financial
infrastructure. The Bank team showed flexibility in adjusting activities where appropriate (such as the
reconsideration given on several occasions to support the establishment and operation of a CIB, and to
help develop actions plans to improve the consultants' deliverables). Of note was the intense Bank
involvement and dialogue relating to the initial two-stage procurement of the RTGS system, which was
subject to an extended review process within the Bank as it came at a time when IT procurement
documents were under review and discussion. As a result, the procurement was substantially delayed.
The Bank was, however, attuned to the problems and allowed the Borrower to rebid the package as a
single stage process (incorporating agreed changes and placing more weight on the technical merits of
the bids, in line with BoA's initial request). From that time on, the procurement went very smoothly and
everybody profted from the lessons learned. Project reporting has been timely and of good quality. The
project was rated realistically against clearly defined indicators and targets.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. In spite of changes in task management, the continuity of staff working on this project
contributed to the success of the operation, especially through the close and daily involvement of the
country-based operations officer who was well grounded in financial sector issues. The team maintained
excellent working relationships with the various counterparts and the quality of the documents show that
the authorities developed a high level of trust in the team.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. Close cooperation was maintained with a team of counterparts throughout preparation, with
the strong commitment and support from the highest levels. Both the MoF and Governor of the BoA
demonstrated strong leadership in the activities to be included in the project and were readily available
for discussions and support. Counterparts were competent and proactive in project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, Government performance is assessed satisfactory. The authorities remained
committed to the project throughout its implementation period and ensured that key staff were in place.
Close cooperation with the Bank team was maintained throughout implementation. Because of the
linkage of this project with the FSAC, cooperation and high-level Government involvement were more
than would normally be expected in a technical assistance operation. A more proactive stance by the
MoF (as the representative of the Borrower), especially in strengthening the regulatory framework for the
insurance sector, could possibly have increased the impact of desired reform in this sector.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly satisfactory. PIU was well managed and adequately staffed. All reporting requirements, as well
as procurement and financial management were handled very well and in a timely fashion.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The Borrower and other project beneficiaries were highly committed to the project and




                                                     - 8 -

cooperated closely with the Bank team. Consultants' studies were well received and recommendations
generally implemented (for instance, in the case of Savings Bank privatization, BART, payments system
reform, accounting reform and strategy for the privatization of INSIG).

8. Lessons Learned

Technical assistance greatly enhances the reform process, especially when it is in place prior to the
policy-based operation. The early availability of resources provided through the FSIBTA facilitated the
design and implementation of the program supported by the FSAC, which was approved about 2 years
after the FSIBTA. It allowed for the design of a program with strong up-front conditionality and was
instrumental in supporting and reinforcing the Government's efforts for financial sector reform.

Commitment of the Borrower and other beneficiaries are essential in any project, not least in projects that
deal with politically sensitive issues. The MoF, through several changes of ministers, as well as the BoA,
consistently displayed strong ownership of the program and commitment to its early implementation.

Staffing continuity facilitates project implementation and the achievement of its objectives. The continuity
of staff, in regard to both the Bank and most of the Albanian team, was an important factor in
maintaining the focus of the operation and building up an atmosphere of trust with the authorities and
project beneficiaries. In addition, the close involvement of the country-based project/operations officer,
including a period of task management, contributed to the Bank's success in being proactive or
responsive to the borrower's needs in the shortest time possible.

Coordination with other IFIs and donors should be maintained to ensure consistency of approach and to
avoid duplication of efforts. Close coordination was maintained with other donors, such as with GtZ in the
case of the CIB. Joint meetings held with IFC, EBRD, and the IMF in regard to the privatization strategy
for the Savings Bank and INSIG were also instrumental in the successful implementation of the
Government's financial sector privatization agenda.

Technical assistance projects should be targeted and linked to specific assistance needed to advance a
reform agenda but some flexibility in design should be maintained to respond to evolving needs. The
FSIBTA was narrowly targeted with identified components. However, sufficient flexibility was built into
the design to allow closely related activities to be funded to meet changing needs (such as the financing
of the bulk clearing system to support payments system modernization and valuation of other
commercial banks, where the MoF had retained some ownership interest, to assist in its negotiations with
potential investors) without the need to change the project objectives or description.

Focus on outcome and outcome indicators. The careful selection of indicators and their relation to the
desired outcome facilitates monitoring of progress, allows timely actions to be taken to "make corrections
along the way" and eventually to assess the concrete results of the project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Republic of Albania
Ministry of Finance
Financial Sector Institutional Building Technical Assistance Project
IDA Credit: 3016-ALB
Implementation Completion Report


Credit: IDA Credit 3362-ALB

Project Title: Financial Sector Institutional Building Technical Assistance




                                                       - 9 -

Implementing Agency: Project Implementation Unit ­ Ministry of Finance (PIU-MoF)

Project Starting Date: August 23, 2000                  Project Closing Date: June 30, 2005

Project Objective

The project's main development objective was to strengthen the financial sector, focusing on banking and
insurance industries.    The project was to provide technical assistance to the Government in furthering the
implementation of key areas of its financial sector strategy, including (i) completion of its bank privatization
program, (ii) improving financial infrastructure; (iii) privatization of the insurance sector. It has also included
some support to improve the capital market institutional framework.

Project Components

The original project components were as follows:

1.       Savings Bank Privatization
2.       Financial Infrastructure
3.       Insurance Sector Reform
4.       Capital Markets
5.       Project Management/Implementation

Achivement of Objectives and outputs

In general the project objectives set forth at project preparation were satisfactory achieved. The technical assistance
provided under the project was very important in supporting the Financial Sector Reform Program undertaken by
the Government, in consistence with the Strategy for socio-economic development and poverty alleviation.

    Project Component 1 ­ Savings Bank Privatisation

Savings Bank of Albania ("SvB") is the leading Bank in Albania and as of June 2003 was 100% owned by the
State, and held in trust by the Minister of Finance, with total assets as of June 2003 of US$ 1.6 billion.

After a failed privatization attempt in 2002, the Government of Albania decided to continue its efforts to bring the
largest bank of the country to the private sector. On January 13th, 2004, Raiffeisen Bank and the Ministry of
Finance signed the Share Purchase Agreement by which the MoF agreed to transfer 100 % the shares of Savings
Bank of Albania to Raiffeisen Bank for US$126 million.

The transaction was a major success. The price paid for Raiffeisen Bank represented a multiple of book value
(ex-dividend) of approximately three times; placing the transaction in the upper range of recent bank acquisitions
in the region. The price is a signal of the confidence of a major financial institution on Albanian growth potential,
its banking system and the strength and prospects of the Savings Bank, the quality of its management and its
personnel.

Raiffeisen Bank apart from being a traditional financial institution in Austria, is a leading bank in Central and
Eastern Europe and it has ambitious plans for Savings Bank that will make a positive impact to the Albanian
banking Sector. "Raiffeisen plans to broaden Savings Bank product range quickly, offering loans, overdrafts, cards
and mortgages to retail customers. Corporate customers as well as small and medium-sized enterprises will soon
enjoy products tailored for the needs. Raiffeisen will also provide infrastructure finance, trade finance and large
syndicated loans.

Estimated cost and actual disbursements




                                                          - 10 -

Sub-component                         Original allocation PAD (US$M)         Actual Disbursement (US$M)
                                      IDA         Gov          Total         IDA          Gov         Total
SvB COO/CAO                          0.50         0.05         0.55          0.33         -           0.33
Privatisation Advisors               1.00         0.10         1.10          1.08         -           1.08
Short term advisors                  0.14         0.02         0.16          0.14         -           0.14
Legal aspects of privatisation       0.15         0.02         0.17          0.18         -           0.18
Financial audit                      0.08         0.02         0.10          -            -           -
UBA valuation*                       -            -            -             0.02         0.004       0.024
TOTAL                                 1.87        0.21         2.08          1.75         0.004       1.754
*additional activity not included in PAD

    Project Component 2 - Financial Infrastructure

2.1 IT Systems for the Bank of Albania

The following three IT systems have been supplied and installed in the Bank of Albania:
·        Accounting and Treasury Management System - ATM
·        Albanian Interbank Payment System - AIPS
·        Albanian Electronic Clearing House - AECH

ATM
The new Accounting and Treasury Management System ­ ATM started to operate in November 2002. The
implementation of this system achieved the automation of the Central Bank operations and accounting system
modernisation. The ATM system is used by all BoA departments that either execute transactions, or use the
information generated directly by the system.

Based on the Central Bank functionality, the implementation of the ATM has had a direct impact in a more
accurate supervision of the banking sector, in improving of the reserve management and a better management of
the liquidity. Operational efficiency has been strengthened through automation of the many procedures. The
accounting system is significantly improved, by providing timely and continuously financial information. The
operational risk is reduced. The role of the accounting personnel is now concentrated in assessing and developing
of accounting procedures and financial statements.

AIPS
The Albanian Interbank Payment System has started to operate in January 2004. This system was considered as the
main intersecting infrastructure of almost all banking system in Albania. The AIPS has been designed and
implemented in accordance with the best international standards and practices.
The participants in the systems are the second level banks and the Bank of Albania, which owns operates and
supervises the system. The AIPS execute the real time gross settlement of all high value payments, in an
irrevocably and unconditionally manner. This system assures better monitoring and administering of the liquidity
by the participants.

The implementation of the AIPS has led to the following achievements:
i)       Improvement of the security and efficiency of the banking system, providing a quick electronic settlement
of the high value payments among banks;
ii)      Providing the Bank of Albania with an efficient tool in administering the systematic risk; and
iii)     Establishment of an appropriate technical and operational platform for further developing of the payment
systems.

AECH
The Albanian Electronic Clearing House - AECH started to operate in July 2005. The implementation of this
electronic system was the second step undertaken by the Bank of Albania in consistence with objective of




                                                       - 11 -

developing of a trustful, secured and integrated payment and clearing system. The AECH system is integrated with
the AIPS system and is designed and implemented in accordance with the best international standards and
practices.
The participants in the systems are the second level banks and the Bank of Albania, which owns operates and
supervises the system. The AECH system execute on net bases the settlement of all small value payments, which
are electronically channelled in the system by the second level banks, which can administer and monitor the
sequence of the payments and the liquidity.

The implementation of the AECH System has led to the following achievements:
i)        Increasing of the processing automation, accurateness and speediness of the interbank small value
payments, and in the same time reduction of costs;
ii)       Providing the Bank of Albania with efficient tools for administering and monitoring of the liquidity and
for avoiding credit and liquidity risks;
iii)      Upgrading of the supporting infrastructure further development of the payment systems and other relevant
financial systems.

2.2 Standard Accounting Procedures

The project has provided substantial assistance to the Ministry of Finance in the implementation of a major
accounting reform program.

The new accounting law has been prepared with the technical assistance financed by the Project. This law was the
first step in the accounting reform program in Albania. The new accounting law would assure full compliance with
relevant EU legislation, consistencies between Albanian accounting practices and IAS for "small" companies and
full adoption of the IFRS for banks, insurance companies, companies issuing securities to the public and "large"
companies. The new accounting law has been approved by the Parliament and will enter into force on the 1st of
January 2006.

Following the adoption of the new accounting law, the Project has financed the technical assistance on
"Developing and introducing new national accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of the
Albanian Accounting Law and in coherence with International Accounting Standards". The overall aim of the
project has been to bring Albanian accounting much more closely in line with international accounting standards
and practices.

To assist in meeting this goal, the project met 4 main objectives, namely:

1.        Drafting of the new Albanian Accounting Standards which have been introduced by the new Law on
Accounting and Financial Statements (April 2004, No. 9228).
2.        Developing training programs and assisting in training of trainers in International Financial Reporting
Standards, as needed, and in the new accounting regulations. Training of trainers for the professional organisations
in accountancy concepts and application of IAS/IFRS; 35 trainers were trained in 2 separate groups, in order to
ensure further training for 200 ­ 300 local accounting professionals in the country.
3.        Helping strengthen the National Accounting Council's institutional capacities. A new National
Accounting Council has been established in accordance with the new accounting law and started to operate based
on the regulation prepared under the project.
4.        Up-dating regulations concerning the accountancy profession in Albania and its organization based on the
comparisons with different European countries and expected trends and evolutions.

The new National Accounting Council has been established and has started to operate based on the new regulation.
The new National Accounting Standards are completed and are now in the process of official approval from NAC.

2.3 Loan Collection Agency

The operational and organisation audit of LCA conducted in 2001 was an efficient exercise to identify significant



                                                        - 12 -

weaknesses in the LCA operational and organisational framework that made LCA unable to adequately carry out
the strategic objectives identified in the new draft law and the business plan. The recommendations provided by the
auditor helped the Government to take immediate changes in the management organisation and structure. The
financial audits of LCA and the additional technical assistance in accounting and book-keeping helped in
strengthening of the financial management, improvement of the LCA yearly financial statement and reporting by
making them compliant with the banking standards.

The main output of the resident advisory service for LCA, which was financed by the project, was the design,
adoption and implementation of the Global Scheme. Towards the end of 2002 and at the beginning of 2003 work
concentrated on refining a scheme for the disposal of assets. After a review of the portfolio the Technical Adviser
handed over a draft "global scheme", a plan to dispose of assets through a partial forgiveness of debt in order to
encourage debtors to pay the balance. The Global Scheme itself remained under discussion until the Supervisory
Board finally approved it at the end of February 2003. The Global Scheme was actually launched in April 2003.
The scheme itself was based on a staged roll out with the lowest value group up to 1 mln Lek being launched first.
BART has been substantially increasing collections, particularly since April 2003. This speaks volumes about the
increasing effectiveness of BART. The internal organisation has been strengthened through various internal
regulatory and corporate governance improvements, and there is a real focus to BART's activities.

The advisory service has assisted in the formulation and development of both the business and strategic plans, the
preparation of which was included as an important element of the FSAC loan conditions. These two documents
provide a solid foundation for BART's present and future activities and act as a focal point for the achievement of
targets.

2.4 Credit Information Bureau

Funds that were originally earmarked for the Credit Information Bureau have been realocated to finance the
implementation of the Automated Electronic Clearing House in the Bank of Albania, in the view of the decision of
the Bankers' Association to establish CIB directly, with the participation of the commercial banks.

Estimates cost and actual disbursements

Sub-component                        Original allocation PAD (US$M)           Actual Disbursement (US$M)
                                      IDA          Gov           Total         IDA       Gov         Total
RTGS system                          1.50          0.25          1.75          0.74      0.39        1.13
Accounting system for BoA            0.40          0.20          0.60          1.15      -           1.15
Accounting Standards                 0.30          0.01          0.31          0.46      -           0.46
Loan Collection Agency               0.45          0.04          0.49          0.42      0.03        0.45
Credit Information Bureau            0.30          0.05          0.35          -         -           -
AECH system ­ BoA*                   -             -             -             0.80      -           0.80
IT infrastructure for MoF*           -             -             -             0.14      0.03        0.17
TOTAL                                 2.95         0.55          3.50          3.71      0.45        4.16
*additional activity not included in PAD


    Project Component 3 - Insurance Sector Reform

3.1 Privatisation of INSIG

The project has provided the necessary financial resources to mobilize high level technical expertise in order to
advise the Ministry of Finance on the proposed investment by the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development ("EBRD") and the International Finance Corporation ("IFC") in Instituti I Sigurimeve sh. a
("INSIG").




                                                         - 13 -

An appropriate financial valuation of INSIG has been conducted prior to the price negotiations with IFC and
EBRD, in order to establish the most realistic and transparent value.

Negotiations on the term sheet for the investment by the EBRD and IFC began in June 2003. Negotiations on the
terms of the three principal transaction documents completed on 11 September 2003. These agreement sets out the
terms on which the EBRD and IFC purchase approximately 39% of the currently existing shares in INSIG from the
Ministry. During the negotiations a number of difficult issues were addressed and resolved.             Inevitably the
resolution of these issues required compromise on both sides and that is reflected in the terms of the documents.
The documents reflect the concessions and allocation of risk agreed by the parties during negotiations.

Our view is that in the context of the concessions made during the negotiations the transaction documents are fair
and even as between the parties.

The three principal transactional documents are:
·        Share Purchase Agreement entered into between the Ministry, EBRD and IFC.
·        Shareholders' Agreement entered into between the Ministry, INSIG, EBRD and IFC.
·        Put Option Agreement entered into between the Ministry, EBRD and IFC.

 3.2 Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework

The project has provided technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance and Insurance Supervision Authority in
the following aspects of insurance supervision:

·        Between 2003-5, long-term assistance was provided to help strengthen the ISA's operating environment,
competence, capacity and effectiveness, so that it could better function as an independent supervisor/regulator of
private insurance companies. In general this technical assistance, although it produced some positive results, was
not as successful as expected, due to differences of opinion related with the consultant's approach to the scope of
work and understanding of the local culture. The consultant's outputs included an action plan with all bylaws and
regulation acts that should be drafted in accordance with the Insurance Law and was able to transfer skills to the
local staff of ISA, particularly with respect to the on-site supervision. However, ISA has not yet managed to
stabilize the insurance market and is in need of additional support to enable it to reach its longer term goals.

·        Technical assistance was provided by an actuary consultant in reviewing the proposed MTPL rating
structure submitted to the Minister of Finance and to produce a blueprint for a reserving methodology to enhance
the prospects of long run stability and profitability of insurers in the MTPL market. Currently the recommended
methodology is partially applied by the insurance companies. It can be fully applied subject to the adoption of the
IFRS by the insurance companies.

·        Technical assistance was provided by an legal expert to draft the new MTPL Law.
      The draft MTPL Law has been prepared with the assistance of a legal insurance advisor. This new law is
      based on the best European practice and the EU directives.

Besides the assistance provided so far further assistance is needed in order to strengthen the insurance market and
supervision. Qualified technical expertise would be required in completing the legal and regulatory framework
with the view of European integration, and strengthening of the institutional capacities of ISA.

Estimated cost and disbursements

Sub-component                         Original allocation PAD (US$M)          Actual Disbursement (US$M)
                                      IDA           Gov           Total       IDA           Gov         Total
Policy/management/operation         0.60            0.16          0.76        0.19          -           0.19
INSIG privatisation advisors        0.15            0.02          0.17        0.10          -           0.10
Financial audits                    0.15            0.03          0.18        0.15          0.03        0.18



                                                          - 14 -

Legal regulatory review              0.33          0.02         0.35         0.47          -          0.47
TOTAL                                 1.23         0.23         1.46         0.91          0.03       0.94

Project Component 4 ­ Capital Markets

Technical assistance has been provided under this component with the primary aim to Prepare a strategic plan for
the development of the Tirana Stock exchange (TSE). This strategy reflects an organisation modelled along
international standards, providing all necessary functions that include trading, clearing and settlement, audit and
compliance services, legal and regulatory, research, marketing and education.

Resources has been reallocated on course of the work in order to address the broader issues of what value a capital
market held for Albania, what were the conditions needed to achieve successful development of capital markets,
the inherent constraints, as well as the risks and costs involved.

The strategic plan is founded in a clear assessment of the overall rationale and objectives for capital market
development in Albania and would help the Government and its agencies to clarify their commitment to develop
the capital market one way or the other.

Estimated cost and disbursements

  Sub-component                        Original allocation PAD (US$M)          Actual Disbursement (US$M)
                                       IDA          Gov           Total        IDA          Gov        Total
TSE strategic plan                    0.15          -             0.15         0.14         -          0.14


 TOTAL                                 0.15         -             0.15         0.14         -          0.14

Project Component 5 ­ Project Management/Implementation

The project implementation and coordination has been satisfactory throughout project implementation period. The
PIU has played a crucial in coordinating the project activities with different institutions and stakeholders involved
in the project. Beneficiary institutions and their relevant departments and staff have been actively involved in all
aspects of project activities starting from ToR up to the evaluation of the outputs. Procurement, disbursement and
financial management have been conducted in a professional, transparent and timely manner. This has allowed the
timely completion not only of the planed activities but also additional ones identified on course of the project
implementation. The PIU has been very efficient in managing the financial resources allocated for the project
management/implementation.

Estimated cost and actual disbursements

  Sub-component                       Original allocation PAD (US$M)         Actual Disbursement (US$M)
                                      IDA          Gov          Total        IDA           Gov        Total
Short term procurement               0.05          0.01         0.06         -             -          -
consultants
Incremental operating cost           0.19          0.02         0.21         0.14          0.02       0.16
Annual audits                        0.06          0.01         0.07         -             -          -
TOTAL                                 0.30         0.04         0.34         0.14          0.02       0.16

Project Estimated Cost and Actual Disbursements

  Component                           Original allocation PAD (US$M)         Actual Disbursement (US$M)
                                      IDA          Gov          Total        IDA           Gov        Total
Component 1 ­ Savings Bank            1.87         0.21         2.08         1.75          0.004      1.754



                                                          - 15 -

Privatisation
Component 2 - Financial              2.95            0.55       3.50    3.71    0.45  4.16
Infrastructure
Component 3 - Insurance Sector         1.23          0.23       1.46    0.91    0.03  0.94
Reform
Component 4 ­ Capital Markets          0.15          -          0.15    0.14    -     0.14
Component       5     ­       Project 0.30           0.04       0.34    0.14    0.02  0.16
Management/Implementation
TOTAL                                  6.5           1.03       7.53    6.65    0.50  7.15


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


                         Selected Commercial Bank Performance Indicators
                                                   (in percent)

                                                      2002      2003          2004
                                                                        Mar     Jun    Sept


Return on assets                                       1.2        1.2    1.3    1.3     1.4
Return on equity                                      19.1       19.5   21.1   22.2    23.7
Interest margin to gross income                         87       89.6   88.3   85.7    87.1
Noninterest expenses to gross income                    64       57.4   60.4   62.4    61.2



Source: Bank of Albania (confirmed by the recent FSAP)




                                                          - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Increased private ownership of the banking  Completed. 18 banks - all privately owned.       Completed. All banks are privately owned
sector.                                     100% of the banking sector is in private         and Government is completing sale of
                                            hands.                                           minority interests in two banks to totally exit
                                                                                             from any ownership role.
Increased intermediation through banks to   Intermediation .                                 Intermediation had increased to about 21% of
the private sector.                                                                          total assets in the banking system by June
                                                                                             2005, or over Lek 60 billion, compared to Lek
                                                                                             23.2 billion at 12/2000.
Privatization of INSIG.                     EBRD and IFC purchased a 39% interest.           Further offering of INSIG to private investors
                                                                                             depends on agreement between Government
                                                                                             and the institutional investors and will take
                                                                                             into account the state of the international
                                                                                             financial markets as it currently has little
                                                                                             appetite for investing in the insurance
                                                                                             industry.
Operational RTGS.                           Completed. RTGS operational since                Fully met. Operational since 01/2004.
                                            01/2004.


Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Implementation of agreed privatization      Completed. Bank sold in 2004 to a reputable Fully met. Bank fully privatized.
strategy for Savings Bank.                  European bank.
Operational RTGS - software and hardware    Completed. RTGS operational since                Fully met. All operational banks are
developed for RTGS.                         01/2004.                                         connected to the system.
IAS accounting standards introduced for     Introduced for banks. Activities underway to Accomplished for banks, insurance sector
banks and enterprises.                      introduce national standards for enterprises     and large firms. SMEs will follow the
                                            to be implemented in 2006 in accordance          improved national standards.
                                            with provisions of the Accounting Law.
Enhancement in Loan Collection Agency's     Collections increased and size of outstanding Fully met. Actions are underway to close
(BART's) efficiency and effectiveness - 20% portfolio reduced. As of end-2004, over          BART, in accordance with the legislation.
reduction in portfolio value.               37.9% of the value of BART's portfolio had
                                            been divested.
Creation of credit information database.    Dropped from the project in light of alternative CIB not yet operating. Following the earlier
                                            plans to establish a CIB (first by GtZ and       unsuccessful plans, BoA has decided to
                                            then the Bankers' Association).                  establish CIB with its own funds and is
                                                                                             seeking outside support.
Implementation of agreed strategy for       Met. EBRD and IFC has taken a 39%                Met.
privatization of INSIG.                     ownership share. Further actions depend on
                                            agreements of Government with these new
                                            owners.
Insurance legal and regulatory framework in New laws and regulations are in place. More Partially met. Much more needs to be done
compliance with EU directives.              needs to be done to improve insurance            to improve efforts to strengthen the insurance
                                            regulations.                                     regulator and improve enforcement.

1End of project




                                                               - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        Appraisal      Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                        Estimate        Estimate      Appraisal
                           Component                                  US$ million      US$ million
Banking Privatization                                                       2.08             1.75          84.1
Financial Infrastructure                                                    3.50             4.16         118.9
Insurance Sector Reform                                                     1.46             0.94          64.3
Capital Markets                                                             0.15             0.14          93.3
Project Management/Implementation                                           0.34             0.16          47.1

Total Baseline Cost                                                         7.53             7.15
                             Total Project Costs                            7.53             7.15
                      Total Financing Required                              7.53             7.15
A fixed exchange rate of US$1.326/SDR was used to calculate the amounts in Annex 2.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                        Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB                  NCB                     2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                              Other
1. Works                                0.00                 0.00              0.00           0.00        0.00
                                       (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                                1.67                 0.00              0.14           0.39        2.20
                                       (1.50)                (0.00)            (0.10)         (0.00)     (1.60)
3. Services                             0.00                 0.00              4.71           0.40        5.11
      Consultants                      (0.00)                (0.00)            (4.71)         (0.00)     (4.71)
         Training
4. Incremental Operating                0.00                 0.00              0.21           0.01        0.22
Expenses
                                       (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.19)         (0.00)     (0.19)
    Total                               1.67                 0.00              5.06           0.80        7.53
                                       (1.50)                (0.00)            (5.00)         (0.00)     (6.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                        Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB                  NCB                     2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                              Other
1. Works                                0.00                 0.00              0.00           0.00       0.00
                                       (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                                2.96                 0.00              0.19           0.00       3.15
                                       (2.57)               (0.00)            (0.14)         (0.00)     (2.71)
3. Services                             0.00                 0.00              3.84           0.00       3.84
      Consultants                      (0.00)               (0.00)            (3.80)         (0.00)     (3.80)
         Training
4. Incremental Operating                0.00                 0.00              0.16           0.00       0.16
Expenses
                                       (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.14)         (0.00)     (0.14)


                                                        - 18 -

      Total                               2.96               0.00             4.19               0.00              7.15
                                         (2.57)             (0.00)            (4.08)            (0.00)            (6.65)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
      management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the
      project.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA        Govt.        CoF.         IDA         Govt.        CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Banking Privatization          1.87        0.21                     1.75        0.00                    93.6      0.0
Financial Infrastructure       2.95        0.55                     3.71        0.45                   125.8     81.8
Insurance Sector Reform        1.23        0.23                     0.91        0.03                    74.0     13.0
Capital Markets                0.15        0.00                     0.14        0.00                    93.3      0.0
Development
Project Management/            0.30        0.04                     0.14        0.02                    46.7     50.0
Implementation
TOTAL                          6.50        1.03                     6.65        0.50                   102.3     48.5




                                                         - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/11/1999                3    Banking Sector Specialists (2),
                                             Operations Officer (OO)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/10/2000                9    Task Team Leader (TTL)
                                             (1), Financial sector (1)
                                             Banking Sector (2),
                                             Insurance (1), OO (1),
                                             Project Officer (1)
                                             Procurement (1), Financial
                                             Management (1)
              05/29/2000                3    Banking Sector (2), Project
                                             Officer (1)

 Supervision
              09/24/2000                6    TTL (1), Financial Sector             S               S
                                             (1), Insurance (1),
                                             Consultant (1), Project
                                             Officer (2), Procurement (1)
              02/09/2001                4    TTL (1); Program Team                 S               S
                                             Leader/Banking Sector (PTL)
                                             (1); Project Officer (1);
                                             Consultant/Fin. Sector (1)
              07/20/2001                4    TTL (1); PTL (1); Project Officer     S               S
                                             (1); Capital Markets (1)
              09/05/2001                2    Insurance (1), Operations (1)
              (technical)
              02/21/2002                4    TTL (1); PTL (1); Accounting          S               S
                                             and Auditing (1); Project Officer
                                             (1)
              04/03/2002                2    Insurance (1),OO (1)                  S               S
              (technical)
              10/03/2002                1    Insurance (1)
              (technical)
              10/25/2002                4    TTL (1); PTL (1); OO (1);             S               S
                                             Procurement) (1)
              02/14/2003                4    TTL (1); PTL (1); OO (1);             S               S
                                             Credit Information Bureau spec.
                                             (1)
              03/13/2003                1    Financial Management                  S               S
              (technical)
              10/28/2003                3    Task Manager (1); Banking             S               S
                                             Sector (1); OO
              03/13/2004                     TTL (1); Banking Sector (1); OO       S               S
              9/14/2004                 1    Insurance (1)
              (technical)


                                              - 21 -

               11/08/2004                 2    TTL, BS, OO (Video conference)    S    S
               02/25/2005                      TTL (1); OO (1)                   S    S

 ICR
               10/072005                 2     TTL, Insurance                    S    S

TTL:     Task Team Leader
PTL:     Program Team Leader/Banking Specialist
OO:      Operations Officer

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                   145
  Supervision                                                             486
  ICR
  Total                                                                   631




                                               - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
SU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Documents: Project Appraisal Document, Development Credit Agreement
Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Reports
Mission Aide-memoires and Back-to-Office Reports
Consultant's Reports on Establishing National Accounting Standards
Consultant's Report on a Strategic Plan for the Development of the Tirana Stock Exchange
Consultant's Reports on Insurance Regulation and Supervision
Consultant's Reports on developing and implementing BART's Global Scheme for Loan Collection
QAG Country Lending Assistance Assessment (April 14, 2004)
OED Albania Country Assistance Evaluation (January 31, 2005)




                                                 - 25 -

- 26 -

