Report No. PID8706
Project Name                     Albania-Financial Sector Institution...
Building Technical Assistance
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Institutional Development; Financial Sector
Development
Project ID                       ALPE69079
Borrower(s)                      ALBANIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE,
BANK OF ALBANIA
PIU, Ministry of Finance
Address: Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Rezar Turdiu, Director
Tel: 355 42 279 41
Fax: 355 42 279 41
Email: rtpiumof@icc-al.org
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 5, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 1, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
BackgroundSince the 1997 crisis following the collapse of the pyramid
schemes, an essential component of the Government's recovery and reform
programs has been to establish a functioning banking sector. The focus of
the strategy to date has been divestiture of the three State-owned banks
and establishment of the necessary regulatory, supervisory, and
institutional framework conducive to developing a sustainable private
banking sector. The key objectives of these reforms are to enhance
competition among banks, improve the quality of banking services, restore
confidence of the general public in the banking system, and help deepen
financial intermediation to the private sector. The Government has made
considerable progress in the implementation of its strategy. The Rural
Commercial Bank (RCB) was closed at the end of 1997; a loan collection
agency has been established and started its operations, the privatization
of the National Commercial Bank (NCB) is nearing completion and, since
1998, the Savings Bank (SvB) has been operating under a strict governance
contract to improve its performance and prospects for privatization. In
addition, banking and central bank laws have been revised and efforts
continue in the revision of regulations and strengthening of banking
supervision. The work for the establishment of a fully functioning
payment system is underway. Efforts are also underway for the
establishment of a credit information bureau under the BoA. A Secured
Transactions Law has been passed by Parliament. The generally successful
implementation of the Government's reform strategy, together with
macroeconomic stability and growth, have contributed to the restoration of
confidence in the banking system. Aggregate household deposits have
increased. In addition, although the State-owned banks have been under a



lending moratorium, the aggregate intermediation levels, which are still
low, have increased due to the improved banking environment and resulting
more active lending policies adopted by the private commercial
banks.Banking PrivatizationPrivatization of NCB has taken longer than
anticipated but agreements with the Investor Consortium (IFC, EBRD and
Kent Bank as the strategic investor) are now in place and the final
transfer of the bank is expected to take place in April 2000. The
privatization of SvB will be the next major step in the Government's
reform program. SvB holds about 75 percent of household deposits and has a
dominant role in the Treasury Bill market. SvB inherited a large number
of branches and bad loans from NCB and RCB as part of the branch
rationalization program at end-1996. SvB has very limited capacity in
commercial lending or recovery of bad loans, is suffering from negative
capital, and is therefore in violation of a number of the Bank of
Albania's (BoA) prudential banking regulations. As a consequence of this
situation, SvB has been put under a governance contract which prohibits
any lending activity by SvB until it is in compliance with these
regulations, specifically those relating to capital adequacy and portfolio
quality. The SvB is expected to be offered for privatization in 2000.
The first steps in the Government's strategy in this regard have been to
strengthen SvB's management, rationalize its operations and limit losses,
and to separate its fiscal function from its commercial banking
activities. International advisers, financed from the IDA-Credit for the
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project, have been supporting this
effort. The privatization of SvB will require substantial additional
planning and effort with emphasis on avoiding a negative impact on
depositors' confidence and the Government's macroeconomic management
policies and practices.Loan Collection Agency (LCA)An important element of
the Government's banking sector reform program includes the resolution of
the bad loan portfolios of the State-owned banks. It is estimated that
the non-performing loans of State-owned banks represent about 80 percent
of their total loan portfolio. Following the liquidation of RCB, the
Government, in recognition of the need to provide a mechanism for
resolution of the portfolio of RCB and other State-owned banks,
established the Loan Collection Agency (LCA), following Parliamentary
adoption of the LCA Law in late-April 1998. LCA has two functions: (a) to
restructure loans in cases where debtors are deemed viable; and (b) to
liquidate bad assets. LCA was designed to perform its role on an agency
basis, with the objective of creating the right incentive structure,
minimizing operational costs, and making it easy to wind down the agency
at the end of its 3-year life, as prescribed by law.Policies, procedures,
and guidelines have been developed to provide for the orderly resolution
of problem assets, with a view to maximizing net recoveries. A general
manager was appointed following the establishment of LCA. According to a
preliminary review, over 3,000 files (representing around 2,500 borrowers)
were transferred to the LCA from RCB. About 12 percent of clients
represent 70 percent of the total value of the portfolio to be collected.
LCA has been following a three pronged strategy in achieving its mandate:
(a) restructuring of loans to viable debtors; (b) taking legal action
against non-viable or non-cooperative debtors; and (c) undertaking a
public awareness campaign, including advertisement in the media and
publishing the names of delinquent debtors to convey to the public the
resolve of the LCA management in carrying out its mandate. As of
end-January 2000, 7.4 percent of the total portfolio (about 300 accounts)
had been fully repaid, 18 percent had been restructured, 10 percent were
-2 -



being restructured and almost 40 percent had been sent to court. Given
the size of the existing portfolio, there is strong need for outside
advice in order to provide technical and operational support to the
general manager, and to further strengthen the institutional structure,
policies, systems and operations. This would include a review of the need
to extend the life of the agency in order to handle the expected increase
in its portfolio following the privatization of NCB and the planned
privatization of the Savings Bank. Banking Supervision and Prudential
RegulationsOver the past several years, the BoA has received substantial
assistance to develop its supervision and regulatory capacity. Most
recently, the IMF has been providing extensive support on the improvement
of banking supervision and regulations. A new Banking Law and Bank of
Albania Law were introduced in 1998. In addition, the Bank of Italy has
been providing direct training and support and a USAID-financed resident
adviser to the BoA will be in place until about September 2001.
Substantial progress has been made in developing and improving banking
supervision and prudential regulations but more remains to be done.
Continued strengthening in this area is part of the Government's and BoA's
overall program. This effort is being supported by the IMF and various
donors. It is not proposed to include additional support under this
proposed project because of the limited funds available. Financial
Infrastructure: Payment and Settlement Systems and Chart of AccountsThe
Albanian authorities have expressed their commitment to strengthening
financial infrastructure including the payments system, accounting and
audits.The BoA, with financial and technical support from the EU Phare,
has developed a new Chart of Accounts for the banking sector that is in
conformity with International Accounting Standards (IAS). However,
substantial work remains to be done to develop accounting standards and
procedures for implementation of these standards. On the enterprise side,
there is need to develop IAS-based accounting standards and procedures.The
payment and settlement systems are still rudimentary. The interbank
payment system is primarily carried out by the physical exchange of
documents. Settlement is operated manually, by a department of BoA. This
system is characterized by high operating costs for the banks, slow
processing of payment instructions and long execution times for payments.
Payment delays are particularly acute for the State-owned banks, with lags
of between 3 to 4 days in Tirana and up to three weeks outside Tirana. At
present, the system processes only payment orders and checks. Some
private banks, on the other hand, have modern electronic systems which
permit them to finalize the transactions with their clients within one to
two days but these banks do not have extensive networks outside of
Tirana. Some banks are also initiating steps to set up ATMs and cash
dispensers. This inefficient payments system is highly exposed to risk
and does not provide the degree of confidence or confidentiality required
to support the development of financial markets in Albania. The BoA, in
line with its strategy for development of the banking sector and with
support from the IMF, has been developing a program to establish a
reliable real time gross settlement (RTGS) system. The BoA has requested
the Bank's assistance in financing the establishment of this system.Credit
Information Bureau (CIB)Currently no credit information bureaus or rating
agencies are active in Albania. As a result, neither the banks nor other
lenders/investors can readily access information such as the credit
history, including the total indebtedness, of potential borrowers. The
lack of this information, compounded by the absence of a mature credit
culture and infrastructure, makes banks more vulnerable to credit risk.
- 3 -



Risks associated with bank lending extend beyond the conventional analysis
of financial statements, even assuming the reliability of the financial
statement. The BoA has created a Credit Information Bureau (CIB) which
will provide information to help better assessment of credit risk. BoA
intends to transfer this function to the private sector at the appropriate
time. BoA has requested support from the Bank to fund the technical
assistance needed for the start up of CIB operations.InsuranceThe
Government has recently adopted a policy on liberalizing the insurance
industry which includes licensing of private insurance companies as well
as the privatization of INSIG, which is currently the dominant insurance
provider in the country. Two privately owned insurance companies provide
limited products. The Government plans to offer INSIG for privatization
in 2001 and has requested the Bank Group's assistance for preparation and
implementation of this undertaking, in regard to both INSIG and improving
the legal and regulatory framework for the sector.While INSIG appears to
have a strong balance sheet and a competent chief executive, it has a
number of immediate operational challenges. These include reducing
excessive expenses, upgrading the actuarial role in pricing and reserving
technology for Third Party Liability Insurance (TPL) in a deteriorating
claims environment, computerizing and integrating accounting and
operations information systems and developing its life insurance business
through new product innovation and agency management. These developments
will need to be accompanied by a number of external activities including
an upgrading of the actuarial profession, possible changes in the pensions
law and the development of a wider and deeper capital market, which are
beyond the scope of the proposed project.As concerns the legal framework,
insurance laws are not in conformity with international standards,
although they are based on local interpretation of different provisions
from various European countries. The law is particularly weak in the
areas of solvency, auditing and disclosure: disclosure standards are not
yet defined, and there is no existing uniform Chart of Insurance
Accounts.    In addition, under current Albanian and EU law, life and non
life insurance cannot be carried out by the same private sector company
and a capital and operational structure will need to be developed prior to
INSIG's privatization. It is likely that two strategic investors will be
required, one for life and one for non-life.The Insurance Supervisory
Commission (ISC) is the licensing and regulatory body for the insurance
industry, except for pension and health insurance. Due to lack of local
expertise, existing regulations issued by ISC are not of adequate quality,
especially those dealing with solvency, accounting, licensing and
investment guidelines. ISC needs to remedy these short comings and issue
new regulations covering various operational risks, especially interest
rate and mispricing risk. The ISC is attempting to adopt some of the
principles of the International Association of Insurance Supervisors
(IAIS) and hopes to become a member of IAIS as soon as possible.
2. Objectives
The project's main development objective is to strengthen the financial
sector, focusing on the banking and insurance industries. The project
will achieve this objective by providing technical assistance to the
Government in furthering the implementation of key areas of its financial
sector strategy, including (i) completion of its bank privatization
program, (ii) improving financial infrastructure; and (iii) privatization
of the insurance sector. It also includes some support to improve the
capital market legislative and institutional framework.
- 4 -



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has provided ongoing financial support and policy advice to the
Government in the area of financial sector reform. The Government, the
IMF and other donors look to the Bank to provide continued support to the
Government to help sustain momentum in the Government's reform program.
4. Description
The project consists of five components: (i) privatization of Savings
Bank; (ii) strengthening of financial infrastructure; (iii) insurance
reform and privatization of INSIG; (iv) capital markets development; and
(v) project management and implementation.
Savings Bank Privatization:
- Legal/privatization advisers (MoF)
- Privatization/management advisers
- Financial audit
Financial Infrastructure
- Inter-bank Payment Systems
- Implementation of standard accounting procedures
- Loan Recovery Agency
- Credit Information Bureau
Insurance - INSIG
- Legal/Privatization advisers (MoF)
- Policy, privatization, management advisers
- Legal, regulatory and upervisory framework
- Audit, accounting system and OIS for INSIG
Capital Markets:
- Development of legal and institutional framework
Project Management/Implementation
- Incremental project management costs
- Procurement and other experts
- Project audit
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0.49
IBRD
IDA                      6
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION       0.49
Total Project Cost       6.98
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented over about 4.5 years. A Project
Implementing Unit (PIU), an autonomous unit located in the Ministry of
Finance, was created in the early 1990s to manage IDA-financed projects
executed by the Ministry of Finance. This PIU will be responsible for the
day-to-day administration and implementation aspects, including all
procurement and disbursement activities, as well as for the overall
monitoring, of the project. The salaries of the existing PIU staff are
being paid from the IDA Credit for the RPTA Project. Additional funds
will be included in the proposed project to cover the estimated
incremental operating costs that will be needed following completion of
the RPTA Project (targeted for December 2000).The Ministry of Finance will
be responsible for the components relating to the Savings Bank, insurance
and capital markets development. A project-financed adviser will work
with the Minister of Finance to provide guidance and assistance in the
- 5 -



respective privatization programs for the Savings Bank and INSIG,
particularly in regard to the legal aspects of privatization. This
adviser will work closely with the management of the Savings Bank and
INSIG to support implementation of the Government's programs. The BoA
will be responsible, from a technical point of view, for the financial
infrastructure component of the project, except for the development of
accounting standards and procedures for the enterprise sector, which will
be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The Payment Systems
Department of the Bank of Albania, together with its Information
Technology (IT) Department, is taking the lead in the technical
preparation of the payments system reform. BoA's Accounting Department is
spearheading the development of accounting standards and procedures for
banks, also in collaboration with the IT Department. The IMF has been
providing advice to the BoA, both in developing requirements for a Real
Time Gross Settlements (RTGS) system and for accounting reform. For IDA,
supervision will be carried out by ECSPF, with participation of staff from
the Albania country office. Given the nature of the assistance,
supervision will involve substantial resources from banking, insurance,
legal and information technology specialists. A mid-term review will be
held by end-December 2002.Financial ManagementGeneral: The existing PIU
will be responsible for project management. The PIU already has in place
an accounting and financial management system which is under improvement
with the assistance of a short-term Accounting Consultant. This
consultant is supporting the PIU financial manager/accountant in the: (i)
design and implementation of the project's new accounting and financial
management system; (ii) drafting of the accounting and financial manual;
and (iii) installation of an appropriate integrated accounting software.
The new system will enable the PIU financial manager/accountant to produce
full quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in a timely and accurate
manner. Financial Management Assessment: The Association carried out an
accounting and financial management assessment of the PIU in order to
determine whether the project has an adequate financial management system
in place, as required by the Association under OP/BP 10.02. The PIU
satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However,
a project financial management system that would be able to provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
project as required by the Association for PMR-based disbursements is not
yet in place. The Association has agreed upon an action plan to
strengthen the PIU's capabilities and implementation of this program is
already underway. It is envisaged that the PIU will be able to produce
such reports by June 30, 2001.Staffing: The PIU already employs a
financial manager/accountant who takes care of all financial management
and disbursement activities. Given the activity of the PIU, this is
adequate for the purposes of the project. Furthermore, the accountant
will complete a World Bank-sponsored financial management course in Turin
in July to further enhance her skills. Audit arrangements: The PIU will
be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing to the Bank the
project's audited financial statements within six months of the end of
every fiscal year. The accounts and financial statements of the project
will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The
audit will be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e.,
all sources and utilization of funds, and expenditures incurred) and it
will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of
Auditing. Auditors will be appointed by the Ministry of Finance to carry
out this audit as part of an overall agreement for the audit of the
- 6 -



IDA-financed portfolio.    Financing for the project-related audit will be
provided for under the proposed project. Disbursement arrangements: The
project will initially disburse under the Association's traditional
disbursement procedures, including the use of Statement of Expenditure
(SOE), with the future option of moving to the Project Management Reports
(PMR)-based disbursement method with the mutual agreement of the Borrower
and the Association.
7. Sustainability
The project will finance the implementation of reforms/actions which will
help Albania establish a well-functioning, market-based financial sector,
which is key for sustained private sector development and private-sector
led growth. Privatization of Savings Bank will be the last step in the
Government's exit from commercial bank ownership. By assisting the
Government in selecting a fit and proper strategic investor, the project
aims at helping improve the long-term robustness of the banking sector in
Albania. Also, the legislation and institutions to be developed/improved
with support from the project are critical pillars for a well functioning
privately led financial sector. In addition, the proposed Second
Structural Adjustment Credit will include banking privatization and will
thus provide considerable follow up in areas addressed by this project and
enhance sustainability of the reforms supported by this project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Implementation of the ongoing RPTA Project continues to be satisfactory,
particularly with respect to the implementation of the financial sector
reforms. Many of the lessons learned from the first TA operation were
incorporated in the RPTA and have been further strengthened in the
proposed operation. These lessons include the need for strong Borrower
commitment and good coordination.   Earlier projects also demonstrated the
need for continuity of staff, from both the Government and the Bank, which
leads to closer cooperation.    The project design will incorporate the
earlier lessons to retain a degree of flexibility in the project so that
activities can be adjusted to respond to changing priorities within the
overall framework of the operation. In addition, earlier experiences have
highlighted the importance of avoiding over-optimistic goals, developing
realistic timetables and providing detailed monitoring indicators. These
lessons are reflected in the proposed operation as it is a continuation of
the ongoing RPTA Project and builds on the program that is already under
implementation. Finally, the proposed operation also recognizes that
intensive supervision is essential to help maintain the momentum in
implementing agreed programs and adherence to difficult commitments.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Not applicable.    This is a technical assistance
project with no environmental impact.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rochelle Hilton
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
-7-



Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 2547
Fax: 202 522 0005
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop week ending Aprl 7, 2000.
-8 -



