Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1925 BO
(Second Amendment)
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 21, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 1925 BO
(Second Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower), 
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA (Banco Central) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, Banco Central and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit), dated June 24, 1988 
(the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of  assisting in the financing of 
the urgently needed imports and services referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to 
the Development Credit Agreement (such imports and services hereinafter referred to as 
the Program);
(B)
the Borrower, Banco Central and the Association have entered into an 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement, dated March 22, 1989  (the 
Amending Agreement) for the purpose of providing the Borrower for additional financing 
of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the  amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement as amended by the Amending Agreement; 
Page  2
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such further additional assistance to the Borrower upon  the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, as amended by 
the Amending Agreement, is amended by deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection (h), 
replacing "June 24, 1988, as amended." by "June 24, 1988,  as amended on March 22, 
1989;" at the end of Subsection (i), and adding a new Subsection (j) as follows:
"(j) 'Second Amending Agreement' means the Second Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit) between the 
Borrower, Banco Central and the Association, dated June 24, 1989, as amended 
on March 22, 1989 and on today's date."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-seven million 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 67,100,000) (the Credit), 
which includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 50,600,000), an 
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,200,000) (the Additional Financing); 
and a second additional amount in various currencies equivalent to seven 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,300,000) (the 
Second Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. The date in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
replaced by June 30, 1991.
Section 1.04. The proviso at the end of Section 2.04 (a) (b) of the Development 
Credit Agreement, as amended by the Amending Agreement, is amended to read as follows:
"; provided, however, that: (i) any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement and (ii) any commitment charge on the Second Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the 
Second 
Amending Agreement."
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"6.  After a date twelve (12) months from the date of the Second 
Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be 
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Second Additional 
Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional Financing 
from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to  the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Second Amending  Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower and Banco Central have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section  2.01 
Page  3
of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the  Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower and Banco Central, that this Second 
Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered 
on behalf of, the Borrower and Banco Central is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
Banco Central in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Second  Amending 
Agreement, this Second Amending Agreement and all obligations of  the  parties 
hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the 
purposes of this Section. If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the 
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement, as amended by the 
Amending Agreement if the latter is then in full  force and effect, shall continue in 
full force and effect, as if this Second  Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Second Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States  of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo Velasco
Authorized Representative
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo Velasco
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice-President
Latin America and the Caribbean
