Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1925 BO
(Third Amendment)
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 16, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 1925 BO
(Third Amendment)
THIRD AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower), 
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA (Banco Central) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, Banco Central and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit), dated June 24, 
1988, (the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing 
of the urgently needed imports and services referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble 
to the Development Credit Agreement (such imports and services hereinafter referred to 
as the Program);
(B)
the Borrower, Banco Central and the Association have entered into an 
Agreement amending the Development Credit Agreement dated March 22, 1989, (the 
Amending Agreement) and a Second Agreement amending the Development Credit Agreement 
dated December 21, 1989, (the Second Amending Agreement) for the purposes of providing 
Page  2
the Borrower with additional financing for the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance toward the finance of the Program by increasing the amount made available 
under the Development Credit Agreement as amended by the Amending Agreement and Second 
Amending Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million four 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,400,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such further additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, as amended by 
the Amending Agreement and Second Amending Agreement, is amended by:
(a)
deleting the word "and" after paragraph (i) thereof;
 
(b)
substituting the stop at the end of paragraph (j) thereof by a semi-colon 
and adding the word "and" after such semicolon; and
(c)
by adding the following new paragraph (k):
 
"(k)  "Third Amending Agreement" means the Third Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit) between the 
Borrower and the Association, dated ____________, 1991."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-seven million 
five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 77,500,000) (the Credit), 
which 
includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 50,600,000) and an 
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,200,000) (the Additional Financing); a 
second 
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million 
three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,300,000) (the Second 
Additional Financing); and a third additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ten million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
10,400,000) (the Third Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. The date in Section 2.03 of the Development credit Agreement is 
replaced by June 30, 1992.
Section 1.04. The proviso to Section 2.04 (b) of the Development Credit 
Agreement, as amended by the Amending Agreement, and Second Amending Agreement, is 
amended to read as follows:
"; provided, however, that: (i) any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement; (ii) any commitment charge on the Second Additional Financing shall 
accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of the Second Amending Agreement; 
and (iii) any 
commitment charge on the Third Additional Financing shall accrue 
from a date sixty 
days after the date of the Third Amending Agreement.
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"6. After a date twelve months from the date of the Third Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered 
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Third Additional 
Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Page  3
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Third Additional Financing from 
the 
Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Third Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Third Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower and Banco Central have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Third Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Third Amending Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and Banco Central and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Banco Central 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Third Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Third Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Third Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Third Amending Agreement, 
this Third Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this 
Section. If this Third Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this 
Section, the Development Credit Agreement, as amended by the Amending Agreement and 
the Second Amending Agreement (if such Amending Agreement and Second Amending 
Agreement are then in full force and effect) shall continue in full force and effect, 
as if this Third Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Third Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo
Authorized Representative
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  4
