CREDIT NUMBER 1925-BO
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                , 1989


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT NUMBER 1925-BO
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   WAC              , 1989, between REPUBLIC
OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower), BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA (Banco
Central) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, Banco Central and the Association
have entered into a Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit), dated June 24, 1988 (the Development Credit
Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the
program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B) the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Program by
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by deleting the "and" at the end of Sub-
section (g), substituting "; and" for "." at the end of Subsection
(h) and adding a new Subsection (i) as follows:
"(i) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement Amending
the Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit) between the Borrower, Banco Central and the
Association, dated June 24, 1988, as amended."


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-nine million eight hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 59,800,000) (the
Credit), which includes an original amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 50,600,000) and an additional
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million two
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,200,000) (the
Addi,tional Financing)."
Section 1.03. The date in Section 2.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement is replaced by June 30, 1990.
Section 1.04. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04
(a) (b) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the
Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days
after the date of the Amending Agreement."
Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
"5.  After a date twelve (12) months from the date of
this Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no
commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to or on the
order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing. At
any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional
Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effec-
tive until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery


﻿-3-
of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory
to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association
showing, on behalf of the Borrower and Banco Central, that this
Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and Banco
Central and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Banco Central
in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to
the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this
Section. If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement
had not been executed.


﻿-4-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Amending
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By
Authorized Representative
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
By       /    e0L        4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By            ."
Regional Vice-President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


