Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: P7512-AZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 48.4 MILLION (US$60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
February 13, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2002)
Currency Unit = Manat (AZM)
US$1 = 4,797 Manat
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACG       Azerbaijan-Chirag-Guneshi                            LDP        Letter of Development Policy
ADB       Asian Development Bank                               LPG        Liquid Petroleum Gas
AIOC      Azerbaijan International Operating Company           MED        Ministry of Economic Development
ANB       Azerbaijan National Bank                             MEP        Main Export Pipeline
ARWC      Aspheron Regional Water Company                      MOF        Ministry of Finance
ADB       Asian Development Bank                               MOFE       Ministry of Fuel and Energy
BEEP      Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey  MOLSPP  Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
BOT       Build-Operate-and Transfer                           MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
BTC       Baku-Thilisi-Cheyhan pipeline                        NBA        National Bank of Azerbaijan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                          NGO        Non-Government Organization
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment          O&M        Operations and Maintenance
CIS       Commonwealth of Independent States                   PAD        Project Appraisal Document
COM       Cabinet of Ministers                                 PAR        Poverty Assessment Report
CPIA      Country Performance Indicator Assessment             PES        Public Employment Services
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report                PPIAF      Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Developrnent    PRGF       Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
ESMAP     Energy Sector Management Assistance Program          PRSC       Poverty Reduction Support Credit
FDI       Foreign Direct Investment                            PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Services                 PSA        Production Sharing Agreement
FID       Foreign Investment Department                        QAG        Quality Assurance Group
FSU       Forner Soviet Union                                  RFP        Request for Proposal
GATS      General Agreement on Trade and Services              SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
GBWSP     Greater Baku Water Supply Rehabilitation Project     SAIC       State Amelioration Irrigation Committee
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                               SCC        State Customs Committee
GFSM      Government Finance Statistics Manual                 SDR        Special Drawing Rights, I SDR= 1.26 US$
HIPC      Heavily Indebted and Poor Countries                  SME        Small and Medium Enterprise
lAS       International Accounting Standards                   SOCAR      State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic
IBA       International Bank of Azerbaijan                     SOE        State-owned Enterprise
IBTA      Institution Building Technical Assistance            SSC        State Statistical Conmmittee
ICM       Initial Concept Memorandum                           SSPF       State Social and Pension Fund
IDA       International Development Association                TA        Technical Assistance
IDPs      Internally Displaced Populations                     VAT       Value-Added Tax
IFC       International Finance Corporation                    VDS        Voluntary Departure Schemes
IFI       International Finance Institutions                   WTO        World Trade Organization
IMF       International Monetary Fund                          WUA        Water Users Association
I-PRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Judy O'Connor
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader: Christian E. Petersen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Azerbaijan
Amount:                SDR 48.4 million (US$60 million equivalent)
Terms:                IDA Terms, with 35 years maturity, including a 10 year grace period
Objectives:           The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-LI) follows a
significant intensification of the Government of Azerbaijan's reformn
efforts over the past two years and is intended to bolster and deepen
those efforts. The credit aims to enhance the Government's ability to
manage Azerbaijan's natural resource boom efficiently, and to
stimulate balanced economic growth, job creation and poverty
reduction. The proposed SAC-II will support selective areas of the
Government's broad reform agenda, as outlined in the I-PRSP, thereby
complementing and reinforcing other Bank Group programs in
Azerbaijan as well as the IMF's PRGF. In particular, this SAC-II
credit is expected to bolster reforms that clearly define the role of the
state and at the same time eliminate impediments ta growth and
employment in the non-oil sectors. The reform program supported by
the SAC-II credit will:
(i)   Improve transparency and accountability in public financial
management, including the establishment of the supreme audit
institution;
(ii)   Strengthen  the  tracking  of  poverty-reducing  public
expenditures, and monitoring of their impact on poverty;
(iii)  Improve strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-
term public expenditure and investment programs;
(iv)  Introduce transparency and financial discipline in the energy
sector, including fiscalization of quasi-fiscal activities:
(v)    Reduce conflicts of interest and corruption in the business
environment, including enforcement of regulations, separation
of regulatory and commercial functions, and tax and customs;
(vi)   Improve transparency, financial discipline and competition in
the banking sector; and
(vii)  Improve the privatization process.
Benefits:             The proposed credit will support the Government's efforts to accelerate
structural reformn in the context of the PRSP process. Major benefits
would be: (i) improved transparency in public finances, and better
targeted and more effective public expenditure policies for accelerated
poverty reduction and economic growth; (ii) enhanced conditions for
private enterprise and foreign investment, especially in the non-oil part
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
of the economy; and (iii) utility sector reforms to improve access to
reliable electricity, heating, and clean water for the population.
Risks:               There are two major risks: (i) non-reformers/vested interests frustrate or
delay key elements of the program; and (ii) implementation delays due
to the limited institutional capacity of the Government. The political
risk is especially noteworthy given Azerbaijan's complex political and
socio-economic situation. Nevertheless, a track record of around five
years of responsible macroeconomic management, including notably
the avoidance of large external debt and inappropriate public
expenditures, as well as the reform results already attained over the past
two years, and the growing constituency for reform being created by
the PRSP process are important mitigating factors. As is the desire of
the Government to have its reform program strengthened by the support
of the Bank and the Fund. As regards institutional capacity, a broad
array of technical assistance from the Bank and other donors is in place.
The proposed Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA-
II) project will address critical remaining bottlenecks and ensure
transparency in sensitive areas such as the privatization of the utility
entities, and carefully factor in environmental and social impact of the
reform agenda.
Schedule of
Disbursements:        The proposed credit, equivalent to US$60 million in SDR will be
disbursed in two equal tranches to the Republic of Azerbaijan, the first
tranche of US$30 million equivalent upon effectiveness of the credit,
the second tranche of US$30 million equivalent upon satisfactory
implementation of policy measures expected to be completed by end
2002.
Poverty Category:    N/A
Rate of Return:       N/A
Project ID Number:   AZ-PE-P055 131



iii
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
I.  THE ECONOMY ..........................................................1
I.1.  Background ........1..................................................1
1.2.   Recent economic performance and Macroeconomic Framework ...............................2
1.3.   Medium-term Prospects and Financing .......................................................... 5
II. THE REFORM STRATEGY                                .9
11. 1. The Poverty Reduction Strategy                   .9
11.2. Structural Reforms                          ..9
11.2.1.  Improving transparency and accountability in public financial management,
including the establishment of the supreme audit institution .10
11.2.2.  Strengthening the tracking of poverty-reducing expenditures, and monitoring
of expenditure impact on poverty .13
11.2.3.  Improve strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-term public
expenditure and investment programs .15
11.2.4.  Transparency and financial discipline in the energy sector, including
fiscalization of quasi-fiscal activities .17
11.2.5.  Reduction of conflicts of interest and corruption in the business environment,
including enforcement of regulations, separation of regulatory and commercial
functions, and tax and customs .21
11.2.6.  Improving transparency, financial discipline and competition in the banking
sector .24
11.2.7.  Improving the privatization process .........................     26
III. THE PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT CREDIT               .        .27
111.1. Links to CAS and Other Bank Operations .27
111.2. Objectives and Design of the Proposed Credit .29
111.3. Proposed Conditions .30
111.4. Benefits .35
111.5. Complementary technical assistance .35
III.6. Administration of the Credit .35
111.7. Risks .37
IV. RECOMMENDATION .37
Annexes
I.  Letter of Development Policy
Attachments: 1. Policy Framework Matrix
2. Energy and Water Sector Reform Plan
II. Statement of IDA Credits and IFC Investments
III. Key Economic Indicators
IV  Azerbaijan at a Glance Table
V. Key Exposure Indicators
VI. Timetable of Key Processing Events






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
1.  I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-II) to the Republic of Azerbaijan for SDR 48.4
million (US$60 million equivalent). The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms
with a 35-year maturity, including a 10-year grace period. This credit would be disbursed in
two equal tranches, the first of US$30 million equivalent upon effectiveness of the credit, the
second also of US$30 million equivalent upon satisfactory implementation of policy
measures scheduled to be completed by end-2002.
2. The proposed SAC-II will support the Government in critically important selected areas
of its broad reform agenda, thereby complementing and reinforcing the Government's
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), presented to the Board on July 5, 2001
(IDA/SecM2001-0429). SAC-II would also support other Bank Group activities envisaged
in the CAS, as well as the IMF's three year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF),
and in particular it will support reforms that aim at:
(i) improving transparency and accountability in public financial management, including
the establishment of the supreme audit institution;
(ii) strengthening the tracking of poverty-reducing public expenditures, and monitoring of
their impact on poverty;
(iii) improve strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-term public expenditure
and investment programs;
(iv) transparency and financial discipline in the energy sector, including fiscalization of
quasi-fiscal activities;
(v) reduction of conflicts of interest and corruption in the business environment, including
enforcement of regulations, separation of regulatory and commercial functions, and tax
and customs;
(vi) improving transparency, financial discipline and competition in the banking sector; and
(vii)improving the privatization process.
I. THE ECONOMY
I.1.  BACKGROUND
3.  Following the break-up of the Soviet Union and until the mid-1990s, Azerbaijan's
economy suffered a dramatic output collapse with a cumulative real GDP drop of about 60
percent, accompanied by hyperinflation, sharp currency depreciation and rapidly depleting
foreign exchange reserves. These difficult initial conditions largely reflected the collapse of
the Soviet Union and related trade and transport links, sharp negative terms-of-trade shocks



2
as suppliers moved to market pricing, the military conflict over the Nagorno-Karabakh
region, and resulted in unsustainable fiscal deficits financed by money creation.
4.  Following President Aliyev's succession to power in 1993 and the cease-fire in
Nagorno-Karabakh in July 1994, the Government launched a comprehensive stabilization
and structural reform program in 1995, supported by the IMF and IDA. Fiscal and credit
policies were tightened, while structural reforms were introduced, mainly in the areas of
exchange rate and trade liberalization. At the same time, prospects for growth improved
significantly after the signature of a number of Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs)
between foreign investors and the Azeri State Oil Company (SOCAR), regulating both oil
production and exploration. As a result, the economy registered cumulative growth of more
than 40 percent during the second half of the 1990's. Initially, the pattern of this recovery
was uneven, as it was dominated by the growth of the oil sector. In 2000 and 2001, however,
strong economic growth registered across sectors and especially, in agriculture and services.
5.  Rapid expansion of employment and income opportunities, and a decline in poverty are
the main challenges facing the economy - in 1999, roughly a quarter of the population was
estimated to be living on less than US$2 a day. Many of the about 1 million refugees or
internally displaced people (IDPs) are suffering hardship. The non-oil sector remained
constrained by lack of transparency and slow progress with financial discipline and efficient
management in public utilities leading to quasi-fiscal deficits. Weaknesses in public sector
governance, the judicial and financial systems, and slow and non-transparent progress in
privatization of large enterprises also deterred non-oil investment. Delivery and quality of
infrastructure and social services have deteriorated, especially in the rural areas.
6.  GDP per capita in Azerbaijan is about US$650, well within IDA limits. To address
poverty and unemployment in a comprehensive fashion the Government is now preparing a
full PRSP to be completed in the summer of 2002. In light of projected major increases in oil
revenues, the authorities have two basic objectives for policy reform in the next few years.
The first is to create a public sector that manages efficiently the country's resource wealth in
transparent ways and delivers on key social and economic services, critical to the reduction
of poverty. The second is to create a competitive private sector through transparent
privatization, accountability and financial discipline in the energy sector, by improving the
business environment to attract investments and reforming the banking sector to ensure
adequate access to credit.
1.2.  RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
Output and Employment
7.  The Azerbaijan economy has grown on average at more than 7 percent per annum, since
1996. In 2000, real GDP expanded by 11.1 percent reflecting both sound policy
adjustments and high oil prices. In 2001, growth is estimated to have remained robust,
despite the global economic downturn and the impact of the September 11 terrorist attack.
8.  Agriculture. Initially, agricultural output fell by almost 50 percent between 1990-95
due to the break-up of the traditional relations inside the FSU. Agriculture accounted for



3
about 20 percent of GDP during 1997-2001 and for more than 30 percent of total
employment. Land reform took off in 1997. In 1998 and 1999 agriculture grew at 10 and 7
percent per annum, whereas in 2000 and 2001 growth reached 12-13 percent. Sustained
recovery of output and productivity, however, are still clouded by the lack of rural credit, and
an urgent need of rehabilitation and modernization of the irrigation system.
9.  Manufacturing output excluding the oil and gas sectors, however, has declined
throughout the last decade and is yet to recover. After an initial drop of 72 percent between
1990 and 1995 (according to the Goskomstat index), and despite the recovery of total GDP,
manufacturing production in 2000 was at 23 percent of its 1990 level. As in other FSU
countries, the relatively labor-intensive light and food processing industries were hit
particularly hard. This development is largely attributed to: (i) slow-moving structural
reforms; (ii) regional and domestic demand-driven factors, originating from changes in
consumer patterns related to tastes and quality requirements; and (iii) huge changes in
relative prices. This trend now may have been reversed finally.
10.  Oil and gas production has grown substantially since 1995: its share in total
industrial production has grown from 14 percent in 1996 to 27 percent in 2000, but dropped
to 23 percent in 2001 due to capacity constraints. By the middle of the decade it is expected
that the oil sector will become predominant, as several mega-projects will be implemented.
11.  Construction and Services. After a decline of 72 percent between 1990 and 1995,
the construction sector has experienced solid growth. During 1996-97, the sector grew at
more than 80 percent, driven mainly by the oil sector developments. Construction played a
dominant role in the economic recovery during the second half of the 1990s. Although the
growth rate has moderated in the past 3 years, construction is expected to accelerate again,
given the implementation of large projects in the oil and gas sector. Services recovered in
1997 and have continued to grow steadily. The services sector plays an important role for
job creation, as it accounts for more than 50 percent of total employment during the second
half of the 1990s, and is expected to account for more than 40 percent during this decade as
well.
12.  Labor market dynamics has been more disappointing, as the level of employment has
stagnated despite the recent rapid recovery. The oil and gas sector development has created
only few productive employment opportunities. Since 1995 employment growth has taken
place in agriculture and services.' Thus, a significant portion of the labor force is engaged in
low productivity, part-time employment with low incomes. The task of restoring employment
in Azerbaijan is further complicated by the large number of displaced persons.
l Note, however, that the increase in agricultural employment observed in 1999 is partially due to the change in the sector
classification used by Goskomstat. Thus any results pertaining to the agricultural sector should be treated with caution.



4
Macroeconomic Policies
13.  Macroeconomic stabilization largely has been achieved, despite sizeable capital
inflows of about 20 percent of GDP per annum. Fiscal and monetary policies have succeeded
in preventing any sustained real exchange rate appreciation since 1995. Monetary policies
were adjusted in late 1997 - when strong inflows were not fully sterilized - and again
following the Russian crisis - when policies were eased and the nominal exchange rate
allowed to depreciate. By end-1999, the real effective exchange rate was about the same level
as at the end of 1994, and has since depreciated by 10 percent.
14.  Oil Strategy. Macroeconomic    reforms  were  accompanied  by  successful
implementation of the country's oil strategy, which relies on Production Sharing Agreements
to attract foreign direct investment (FDI) to exploit the country's oil and gas potential. As a
result, since 1995 Azerbaijan has been the fastest growing country in the CIS, with one of the
highest levels of FDI per capita. Because the oil and gas sector is likely to be the main engine
of growth during the next 20-30 years, it will be important to create a business climate in
which other sectors of the economy can reap maximum benefit from the income generated in
the oil and gas sector and from this sector's input needs. To this end there is a need to: (i)
maintain macroeconomic stability through continued fiscal consolidation, prudent
management of budgetary and oil fund revenues and avoiding excessive real exchange rate
appreciation; and (ii) accelerate structural reforms, which will improve resource allocation
and will enhance competitiveness of the non-oil sector and at the same time improve
efficiency and effectiveness of public sector service delivery.
15.  Monetary Policy. The Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB) has refrained from financing
the deficit through money creation and kept the growth of Manat reserve money consistent
with low inflation. The ANB is targeting monetary aggregates and uses a managed float
exchange rate in order to smooth short-term fluctuations and to prevent excessive nominal
appreciation, as large capital inflows associated with oil sector investments may place
upward pressure on the Manat. Indeed the results were impressive: during the past decade
inflation was reduced from a monthly rate of 50 percent to annual rates in the low single
digits. The reserve position of the ANB strengthened as well. In 2000, credit expansion was
moderate, and interest rates were stable, reflecting strong fiscal performance. The annual
inflation rate has declined from 2.2 percent in end-2000 to an estimated rate of 1.3 percent in
2001.
16.  Fiscal Policy. The initial unprecedented drop in real output following the break up of
the Soviet Union and traditional trade links resulted in double-digit fiscal deficits financed by
money creation in the early 1990s. Since 1995 public finances have been considerably
strengthened and restructured, as revenues have grown and the deficit reduced. Fiscal
adjustment required expenditure cuts, which among other things, resulted in lower
allocations for social sector spending, relative to GDP. The outlays on education as a share of
GDP went down from 4.5 percent in 1995 to 3.8 percent in 2000, while healthcare
expenditures dropped as a share from 2.1 to 0.9 percent of GDP. On the other hand,
expenditures on social security and social assistance increased from 5.0 percent of GDP in
1995 to almost 6 percent in 2000.



5
17.  Restrictive fiscal policy, an essential element of the 1995 stabilization program,
resulted in a decline of the budget deficit from 15 percent of GDP to less than 2 percent in
1997. In 1999 the deficit increased to 5.5 percent of GDP, largely driven by rapidly disbursed
foreign project loans, despite further improvements in tax administration and higher oil
prices. While high oil prices were behind the strong fiscal improvement in 2000, additional
expenditure cuts were required to counteract the impact of lower oil price on the overall
fiscal deficit in 2001. As a result of these measures, the general government deficit
(excluding the Oil Fund) went from 3.5 percent of GDP in 2000 to 2.2 percent in 2001.
18.  Budget revenues grew during 1995-2000 from 17.6 to 21.0 percent of GDP due to
higher oil prices and a shift from direct taxes to taxes on consumption (VAT, excise, and
import). Tax rates have been progressively lowered and the tax base has been widened as
compliance has improved, in part due to improved tax administration: identification of
unregistered taxpayers, simplification of taxpayer forms, avoidance of personal contact
between taxpayers and tax officials, enforcement of tax penalties and sanctions, improved
control of cash registers, and establishment of a legal department in each local office.
Nevertheless, further progress with tax administration reform and with implementation of the
new Tax Code is called for to achieve lasting fiscal consolidation.
19.  External Position. Until recently, Azerbaijan was running large current account
deficits, mostly trade deficits driven by the oil sector. The share of oil-related imports in total
imports of goods rose from 3.0 percent in 1995 to 21.0 percent in 1998. The current account
deficits were by and large financed by capital account surpluses resulting from strong FDI
inflows and official lending. During 1994-2000, cumulative FDI inflows amounted to
US$3.7 billion mainly to the energy sector. In 2000, the current account deficit dropped to
below 3.0 percent of GDP from over 13.0 percent of GDP in 1999, as oil exports doubled in
dollar terms. This was combined with a 24.8 percent decline in oil sector imports, due to a
slowdown in investment activity by the Azerbaijan International Operating Company
(AIOC). Non-oil exports of goods and services also increased significantly, while non-oil
imports increased by 12.0 percent. For 2001 the current account deficit is estimated at 2.3
percent of GDP.
1.3.  MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING
20.   The main challenge - raising incomes and creating jobs. The strategy set out in the
I-PRSP defines the reduction of widespread poverty and unemployment as the main
economic challenge for Azerbaijan. Tackling these problems calls for raising productivity
and growth in the non-oil sector to ensure that the benefits of economic growth in terms of
both rising incomes and jobs are widely shared. Recognizing that the private sector is the
main engine of economic growth calls for transparent privatization, improved investment
environment, accountability and financial discipline in the energy sector and improved access
to credit through a competitive and sound banking sector.
21.   The main macroeconomic objectives of the Authorities' reform program as outlined in
the I-PRSP document and the PRGF Letter of Intent are to achieve robust broad-based
economic growth, and to maintain macroeconomic and financial stability. The annual growth
rate during 2002-2004 is projected at 8.5 percent, based on an assumption of continued rapid



6
growth in the oil sector and on enhanced non-oil sector development. The macroeconomic
program also aims at stabilizing the annual inflation rate below 3.0 percent, maintaining a
sufficient level of foreign exchange reserves, and further progress with fiscal consolidation.
Prudent fiscal policy will not only be essential for maintaining macroeconomic stability and
efficient management of oil revenues, but should also accommodate essential structural
changes as explained in the attached LDP. Key economic indicators are presented in Annex
III.
22.   Sources of Growth. In the medium term, economic prospects is squarely dependent
upon successful oil and gas sector development. Given the size of its proven oil and gas
reserves, Azerbaijan is poised to become a resource rich economy during the second half of
this decade. The realization of this potential, however, depends upon developments of four
major projects: full development of the Azeri-Chirag-Guneshli oil field; the construction of
the Baku-Thilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) pipeline to transport oil from this field to the Mediterranean;
the development of the Shah Deniz gas field; and a gas pipeline from Baku to Turkey parallel
to the new oil pipeline. The implementation of these projects will take at least 3 years and
would require investments in the order of US$13 billion to be financed primarily by external
sources, or more than twice 2001 GDP.
23.   Uncertainties about the timing of these projects exist, but best estimates envisage both
Shah Deniz and BTC pipelines coming on-stream by the mid 2000s. Until these projects are
implemented, growth in the oil sector is likely to slow down due to export capacity
constraints. Despite the large import component of these oil sector investments, some share
of this investment will be domestically produced, with a positive effect on construction,
transport and service sectors. The manufacturing and agricultural sectors, however, may not
benefit as much from this oil-related investment boom unless structural impediments are
removed.
24.   Based on these assumptions, an annual average growth rate of 8-10 percent during
2002-2004 is within reach. Beyond 2005, provided that the above-mentioned oil and gas
related projects proceed on schedule, double-digit oil sector growth over the medium term is
to be expected. Nevertheless, successful development of the oil sector alone is not enough to
ensure rising incomes and jobs for most of the population. Even with a robust system for
managing oil revenues in place, rapid oil sector growth may lead to real exchange rate
appreciation and raising real wages, which may undermine competitiveness of the non-oil
economy.
25.   The recent volatility in oil prices and its effect on the current account balance and state
budget highlights the vulnerability of Azerbaijan's economy to movements in oil prices.
Long-term growth prospects may be adversely affected if prudent policies are not continued.
The potentially negative effects of an inadequately managed natural resource boom are well
known and often referred to as Dutch disease: (i) macroeconomic adjustment problems
stemming from large foreign exchange inflows; (ii) unbalanced growth, i.e., "crowding out"
of the non-petroleum traded goods sector;  (iii) waste of petroleum wealth through
2 This estimate is provided by British Petroleum.



7
unproductive public expenditures; and (iv) in some cases even accumulation of external debt
as the resource boom increases the capacity to borrow, including public sector entities.
26.   Conservative estimates of Azerbaijan's proven oil reserves in 2000 amounted to 900
million tonnes and given current projections for oil extraction, they are expected to last for
about three decades.3 According to World Bank estimates, oil and gas exports are expected
to decrease from US$1.6 billion (or approximately 30 percent of GDP) in 2000 to US$1.37
billion in 2002 and may not recover before 2005, due to the expected decline in world oil
prices.4 In 2005, exports could reach US$1.90 billion thanks to larger production volumes,
offsetting the effect of lower oil prices. As the BTC Pipeline is completed, oil related exports
are estimated to increase to more than US$3 billion in 2006 and US$6 billion in 2009.
27.   Azerbaijan's investment ratio is expected to rise from around 17 percent of GDP in
2000 to more than 40 percent in the medium term, under the assumption that work on both
the Shah Deniz and BTC pipelines and further development of oil and gas potential take
place. This investment will be largely financed by extemal sources. Upward pressure on the
exchange rate will be mitigated by accumulation of oil revenues in an Oil Fund, and the real
effective exchange rate is projected to remain stable.
28.   The Role of the State Oil Fund. Although Azerbaijan is significantly endowed with
oil and gas resources, recent estimates suggest that without a major new discovery and given
the current schedule of the four major oil and gas projects, oil production will peak in 2010 at
about 67 million tons, followed by a relatively short plateau of peak production and
thereafter decline (about 2012). This decline will be fairly rapid, dropping to less than half its
peak level in about five years (2017), and to about a quarter of its peak level by 2024.
29.   This profile of future oil extraction (which is mostly driven by foreign companies) and
uncertainties regarding future oil prices rnean that a much smaller share of this windfall can
be transformed into additional permanent income to be available for consumption and
domestic spending. Thus it will be prudent to treat this positive shock as temporary,
underscoring the importance of preserving a (sizeable) portion of the revenues for future
generations.
30.   The Oil Fund provides the necessary financial mechanism to separate commercial
decisions on oil extraction from public spending decisions. The Oil Fund will allow
Azerbaijan to save part of oil revenues and prevent adverse effects from excessively rapid
transfers of oil revenues into the domestic economy. The Oil Fund is to reinforce sound
policy. The Authorities are implementing structural reforms that would bring the quality of
the budgetary process, its comprehensiveness, transparency and accountability to high
standards and to ensure that the Oil fund is an integral part of the consolidated budget. Both
the budget systems reforns and the Oil Fund are discussed in detail in Section II below. In
the next three years, at least, intended expenditures out of the Oil Fund are limited to interest
earnings on portfolio investment, or US$20-30 million per annum.
3This reserve estimate is provided by British Petroleum and assumes that no other oil discoveries would take place.
4These projections are based on the assumption that the oil price would decline from US$28.3 per bbl (barrel) in 2000 to
USSI 8.5 for 2002 and will stay at USSl9 per bbl for 2003-2005, and that the new oil and gas fields will not come on stream
before the mid-2000s.



8
31.   External Position and the BOP. The saving-investment deficit is expected to
increase significantly, due to sizeable investment requirements of the four major projects in
the oil and gas sector, mentioned above. The high import content of this oil-related FDI,
combined with the slowdown in the oil sector growth due to capacity constraints and lower
oil prices, is projected to increase the current account deficit from an estimated 2.3 percent of
GDP in 2001, to 23 percent in 2002 and to about 30 percent of GDP for 2003 and 2004.
Although these current account deficits will be financed by foreign direct investment and
official lending, considerable risks and uncertainties remain. Two main factors may increase
the economy's vulnerability to external shocks: (i) the risk of a protracted period of low oil
prices may lower the earnings capacity; (ii) any delays in implementation of the pipeline, oil
and gas projects add to the cost and distance the prospects of increased export capacity.
32. External Financing Needs. Present levels of external debt are considered sustainable,
with long maturity and low interest rates. The country's external debt burden is relatively low
at about 54 percent of exports or 24 percent of GDP at end-2001. Worldwide economic
slowdown, as well as the attacks of September 11 were important factors behind the drop in
current and projected future oil prices.5 As a result, export revenues for 2002 are now
projected US$400 million lower than before the attacks.6 The impact of lower oil prices on
the balance of payments, however, is less severe, since any reduction in export revenue
translates into reduced capital repatriation of invested capital and profits by international oil
companies. Furthermore, the decision to bring forward the Shah Deniz gas field development
project resulted in higher than projected net foreign directed investment. These factors are
expected to broadly offset the impact of lower oil prices on the balance of payments for
2002. The financing need of US$72 million is expected to be financed by the IMF (US$42
million) and disbursements under the proposed SAC-II (US$30 million). For 2003, the
projected financing gap of US$98 million is expected to be closed by the anticipated
disbursements from the PRGF (US$32 million), the SAC-II (US$30 million), as well as
bilateral donors. Financing gaps for 2004 and 2005 are projected at about US$91 million and
US$190 million, respectively.7 These gap estimates are very sensitive to oil price changes.
According to recent estimates of the IMF, an oil price drop of US$1 per barrel would reduce
export receipts by US$76-79 million, with a corresponding decline in the overall balance of
payments by about US$31 million (0.5 percent of GDP), and a loss of government revenue of
roughly US$35 million (0.6 percent of GDP).
33.   Fiscal Risk and the Quasi-Fiscal Deficit. When assessing financing needs it is
important to factor in the large quasi-fiscal deficit in the utility sector, estimated at more than
20 percent of GDP in 2000. This is a major reform challenge supported by SAC-II. The part
of the deficit arising from non-payment of bills and non-technical losses alone amounts to 1.6
times the total education and health expenditures of the government. Possible defaults on
publicly guaranteed utility sector debt and further deterioration of utility sector infrastructure
could seriously worsen the fiscal position of the Government and weaken the macroeconomic
stance. Consequently, the proposed SAC-II would not only provide necessary financing of
5World Economic Outlook (WEO) oil price dropped from US$28.3 per bbl (barrels) in 2000 to US$24.3 per bbl in 2001.
6 WEO and Development Prospects Group (DECPG) oil price projection for 2002 changed from US$24.4 per bbl as of June
2001 to US$18.5 per bbl as of Dec 2001.
7 Those projections are based on WEO assumptions of US$19 per bbl during 2003-2005.



9
the deficit, but with its measures to adopt a comprehensive reform program for the utility
sector, would mitigate a substantial fiscal risk.8
II. THE REFORM STRATEGY
11.1. THE POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
34.   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The I-PRSP was endorsed by the Board of the
IMF together with the PRGF on July 2, 2001, and by the Board of the Bank on July 5, 2001.
The Government is planning to complete a full-fledged PRSP in mid-2002, and is taking a
strong participatory approach to preparing the PRSP, allowing all segments of the population
to express their views on the priorities and gain understanding of and commitment to the
goals of the poverty reduction program. This process will take time, and care is needed to
avoid rushing the product at the expense of strengthening the process further.
35.   The main challenge - raising incomes and creating jobs. The strategy set out in the
I-PRSP defines the reduction of poverty and unemployment as the main economic challenge
for Azerbaijan. Tackling these problems requires balanced growth, which in turn calls for
increased investment in the non-oil sector to ensure that the benefits of economic growth in
terms of both rising incomes and jobs are widely shared. The Government's program is
intended to create an attractive investment climate outside the energy sector by steady
reductions in taxation on business and employment as resources allow. Reforms are expected
to provide a sound basis for raising employment and real incomes, and developing a social
safety net to protect the poorest through financial stability, improved public sector and
utilities services and accelerated private sector development.
11.2. STRUCTURAL REFORMS
36.   Structural reforms are the main policy tools of the Government to achieve more
balanced economic growth by developing the non-oil sector, strengthening governance,
enhancing financial discipline, fostering private sector development and on that basis,
fighting poverty. During the past several years, the Government privatized most small
businesses and a number of larger enterprises through the first privatization program.
Privatization of collective farms and land is largely completed. A second phase of the large-
scale enterprise privatization program has been launched with clearer rules. The legal basis
for a market economy has largely been established, based on the new Constitution and
including Criminal, Civil, and Tax Codes, and a large number of laws on economic issues.
The public sector has also undergone substantial reforms, including reforn of the Central
Bank, restructuring of a number of Government ministries and establishment of the Treasury.
37.   Yet much needs to be done to further advance public sector reforms, accelerate
development of the non-oil economy, and improve financial discipline and service delivery
in utility sectors. Public sector reforms supported by the proposed SAC-II credit aim at:
(i) improving transparency and accountability in public financial management, including the
s See section 11.2.4 below for a treatment of the quasi-fiscal deficit.



10
establishment of the supreme audit institution; (ii) strengthening the tracking of poverty-
reducing public expenditures, and monitoring the impact on poverty; and (iii) improving
strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-term public expenditure and investment
programs. The proposed reforms will help the public sector to manage both oil and non-oil
revenues in a more transparent and efficient way in order to mitigate Dutch disease, while
creating the institutional capacity and environment for growth with inclusion.
38.   To enhance sustainable growth of the non-oil sector and private sector
development, the Government will: (i) introduce transparency and financial discipline in the
energy sector, including fiscalization of quasi-fiscal activities; (ii) reduce conflicts of interest
and corruption in the business environment by enforcement of regulations, separation of
regulatory and commercial functions, and modernization of tax and customs administration;
(iii) improve transparency, financial discipline and competition in the banking sector; and
(iv) improve the transparency of privatization process. These reform measures are described
in detail in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP) with attachments, and are summarized
below.
II.2.1.  Improving transparency and accountability in public financial
management, including the establishment of the supreme audit institution
39.  Public expenditure management reforms are to ensure that: (i) policies or priorities
focusing on poverty reduction are explicitly linked to the budget; (ii) the budgetary process is
sound, and that budgetary planning and execution is policy oriented; and (iii) that there is full
financial accountability and control over the budgetary process. To address these reform
objectives, the Government's strategy is to improve the process of budgetary management
and public procurement, financial accountability and control, with a special attention to
integrating the Oil Fund in the budgetary process and ensuring its prudent management.
The new Budget Systems Law
40.  A new Budget Systems Law satisfactory to IDA and the IMF has been submitted to
Parliament. The Law inter alia: (i) covers all relations with state extrabudgetary funds,
including the Oil Fund; (ii) provides for complete accounts of extrabudgetary revenues,
expenditures, and surplus balances as per economic and functional classification levels;
(iii) ensures the full and transparent reporting to Parliament of these accounts in the budget
process; and (iv) stipulates that any resources drawn from the extrabudgetary funds, other
than for meeting the State Oil Fund's own administrative expenses, shall be channeled
through the State Treasury, which would be fully computerized with the assistance of IBTA-
II.
41.  Budget preparation according to the new Budget Systems Law is organized around a
Medium-Term expenditure Framework (MTEF) and the Public Investment Program (PIP).
The Law provides the basis for output-based budgeting instead of norm-based. The Law also
establishes a firm link between local budgets and the central consolidated budget and
prevents local self-governing bodies from borrowing outside the central budget. Separate



I1
comprehensive estimates of extrabudgetary revenues and planned utilization will also be
provided as well as revenue and expenditure estimates for investment projects.
42.   Once computerization of the Treasury is completed and the fiscal accounts are
consistent with the GFS standard of the IMF, a new budget classification (GFSM 2001) will
be used. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has developed and Ministry of Justice
has approved, the formal rules for undertaking new commitments on state budget
expenditures, and for Treasury registration of goods, works and services. These rules provide
for clear formal procedures that any budget organization needs to go through to incur new
commitments. By recent Presidential Decree the MOF is authorized to appoint its
representatives in state bodies that have incurred government guaranteed external borrowing
in order to monitor and ensure compliance with these rules.
43.   Extrabudgetary Funds. The Parliament adopted the Law "On the Social Protection
Fund" on November 15, 2001, which provided for the specialized social funds - Social
Protection Fund, Disabled Person's Fund and Employment Fund - to be merged. Similarly,
according to the Law on Budget 2002, eleven extrabudgetary funds (0.8 bln manats) out of
85 are to be included directly with the revenues and expenditure parts of the Budget 2002. In
2003 the other extrabudgetary funds and operations of budget agencies will be included to
the state budget. At that point the Oil Fund and the Social Protection Fund will be the only
remaining extrabudgetary funds. Both the Law on Budget 2002 and the Law "On the Social
Protection Fund" were made effective on January 1, 2002.
44.   Tax and Customs Administration. With the support of the IMF, the Government
has made significant progress in improving tax administration. Recent reforms aim at
improving the Ministry's structure and operations, and modernizing the work environment
and equipment, including through enhanced computerization and training, with a focus on
staff specialized in tax assessment and revenue collection. A new Tax Code, in effect since
the beginning of 2001, clarifies the legal framework, enhances transparency, and aims to
improve tax administration. A modest VAT tax reduction has been adopted. The new
customs tariff code adopted in early 2001 has eliminated ad hoc tariff exemptions, and
technical assistance (TA) through the IMF is being provided for modernization of customs
administration.
Public Procurement Law
45.   A revised Procurement Law satisfactory to IDA has been enacted and made effective
and implementing mechanisms have been adopted. The legal and institutional framework for
governing public procurement has been finalized and an independent State Procurement
Agency has been created, staffed, and made operational. The Government has adopted a
standard reporting format to monitor the extent and quality of implementation and
established a baseline to assess progress in implementation.
46.   The Government has approved the terms of reference (TOR) for technical assistance
to prepare and execute the public procurement implementation plan supported by IBTA-II.
Country specific procurement documents will be adopted in March 2002, and the TA will



12
help to institute a process of random reviews by an independent procurement auditor of
completed procurements, and conduct pilot audits in 2002.
47.  The Government is also working closely with IDA on the preparation of the Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), which is expected to be completed in June 2002.
This will lead to a CPAR action plan, the implementation of which would start in July 2002.
Supreme Audit
48.  The Parliament has approved the nomination of the head of the newly established
Chamber of Accounts, the Supreme Audit Institution and five auditors have recently been
appointed. Amendments to the Law and Charter of the Chamber of Accounts recently
approved by the Parliament will enable the Chamber to audit all government bodies,
including all budgetary and extra-budgetary organizations and funds. The Chamber has been
obligated to make public reports of its findings. At least two ministries and two state
enterprises will be audited in 2002.
49.  TA would be provided through the IBTA-II to build the Chamber from the ground up,
and train the staff to undertake the required audit functions. Resources for the full staffing
and proper functioning of the Chamber have been allocated in the 2002 budget. The
Government is working closely with IDA on the preparation of the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA), which is expected to be completed in June 2002. The
CFAA will lead to a financial accountability action plan, which would start in July 2002.
Restructuring Government and Public Administration
50.  During the past year, the Government has undertaken multiple policy and institutional
reforms, especially with respect to the business environment, judicial system, law
enforcement, and public administration reform, supported by the PRGF, the proposed
SAC-II, and other IDA programs.
51.  In the area of legal-judicial reforms, the following steps have been taken: (i) new
principles and a timetable of implementation for merit-based nomination and test-based
selection and appointment of all judges in the country; (ii) new laws on the Prosecutor's
Office and the Law on Lawyers; (iii) Civil Procedure, Criminal and Criminal Procedure
Codes; (iv) Law on Ombudsmen; and (v) a new Civil Code as reviewed by legal experts of
the European Council, which Azerbaijan has now joined. The authorities promulgated legal
provisions to improve accountability of newly appointed judges for their court rulings. These
provisions oblige the Ministry of Justice to submit a quarterly report on initiated disciplinary
procedures to the Legal and Judicial Council and the 'Supreme Court, and authorized the
latter to initiate disciplinary proceedings against judges if the Ministry of Justice does not do
so.
52.  Public Administration Reforms have included initial structural and functional
reviews of the Cabinet of Ministers Office (COM), enactment of the Law on Public Service
and a review of the existing legal and institutional framework for licensing, including
adequacy of provisions for transparency of administrative and grievance procedures.



13
Furthermore, the top 25,000 government employees received a substantial increase in pay in
2001, thus making the pay scale more competitive with the private sector.
53.   Government structures are being modernized, including restructuring of the central
executive bodies, line ministries, state committees and other state agencies. A number of
departments of COM has been liquidated and merged with other departments or Ministries. A
recent Presidential Decree: (i) created the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and the Ministry of
Transport; (ii) merged the Ministries of State Property, Trade, and Economy, the State Anti-
Monopoly Committee, and State Agency for Foreign Investments to create the new Ministry
of Economic Development; and (iii) created the Ministry of Environment on the basis of the
State Committee on Ecology and Natural Resources. Clearly much work remains to be done
on making these ministries effective, and clarifying further their roles vis-a-vis that of the
COM.
54.  Regulatory functions will be removed from commercial state-owned enterprises.
Those include, for example, transferring regulatory functions to the Ministry of Fuel and
Energy from commercial state-owned companies, SOCAR, Azerenergy and Azerigaz, and to
the Ministry of Transport from state-owned commercial transport companies, such as Azal,
Caspian Shipping, Azeravtonagliyyat, Baku Port and Azerbaijan Railways. The transfer of
such functions to the Ministries is a first step pending creation of more independent
regulatory arrangements and capacity.
II 2.2.  Strengthening the tracking ofpoverty-reducing expenditures, and
monitoring of expenditure impact on poverty
Social Assistance
55.  In Azerbaijan, social protection programs have not evolved sufficiently to satisfy
emerging social needs. Employment is no longer guaranteed, while state enterprises have
stopped providing the broad range of services that existed in the Soviet period. The current
social assistance system is characterized by some fragmentation of programs and multiple
allowances, and frequently low benefit levels spread among a large number of recipients.
56.  As the country has evolved towards a market economy and the informal sector has
expanded, it is more difficult to gauge the income of families receiving assistance, in
particular the child allowance. The most important family program is the family benefit for
low-income families (amounting to 1 percent of GDP in 1999) financed from the state
budget. The benefit amounts to AZM9,000 (or 4.9 percent of the average wage) per month
per child under 16 (or under 18 if he/she is still in education) in cases where the average per
capita household monthly income is less than AZM16,500 (or roughly 9 percent of the
average wage). The number of beneficiaries is very high (roughly 60 percent of all children
under 18.) The low benefit and high take-up ratio indicates that resources are spread thinly
with very modest impact on most households. The program does not allow for variations
with family income. Hitherto, the lack of regular and comprehensive data on living standards
has prevented a technical analysis of the targeting efficiency of social protection programs.



14
57.   The State Social and Pension Fund (SSPF), an independent agency, is responsible
for the collection of contributions and the payment of a sizable share of cash social insurance
and social assistance benefits. Within the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
(MOLSPP), four separate departments are engaged in the administration of specific
programs. The SSPF and all four MOLSPP departments maintain their own independent
network of offices throughout the 89 'rayons' (districts).
58.  New data from the reformed household survey system of the State Statistical
Committee (SSC) will permit regular analysis of social protection targeting. This analysis is
to be complemented with information gathered by social workers from the MOLSPP local
offices in order to construct a more complete assessment how to strengthen targeting.
59.   A Presidential Decree was issued in March 2001 acknowledging targeting problems
and requesting a revision of social assistance benefits by end-2001 to improve targeting. The
background analysis and revision of programs should serve as the basis for a more
comprehensive social assistance reform strategy that will take into account the
complementarities of different social protection programs.
60.   Government is preparing a study assessing the targeting efficiency of social protection
programs using data from the revised household survey system. In this respect "Concept of
Social Assistance Reform in the Republic of Azerbaijan - An Issues Paper" has been
prepared. The paper covers a medium-term strategy for enhancing targeting of social
assistance and alleviating the impact on the poor of new public utility policies. The next step
would comprise the Government's approval of a medium-term strategy for enhancing the
targeting of social assistance programs consistent with a broader social protection
framework and with the reforms of the utilities sector.
61.   As part of the strategy for strengthening the social safety net and simultaneously
developing financial discipline in the energy and water sectors (see below), in 2002 the
Government has abolished discounts and exemptions in the areas of housing and utilities
(electricity, gas, water supply, etc.), transport services, use of telephone lines, and purchases
of pharmaceuticals for 11 privileged groups of population, such as war veterans, veterans of
armed forces, work veterans, military servants, etc. Funds have been allocated in the 2002
budget to replace these subsidies with an explicit system of direct cash transfers to the truly
needy.
62.   Poverty among internally displaced persons and refugees is due to special sets of
circumstances. IDPs make up 7-8 percent of the population in the country in general, and up
to a third in some western and central rayons. Social policy is expected to continue to address
their special needs after 10 years displacement, destruction of their asset base and inability to
access land in their home rayons. Targeting, to the extent possible, will be based on
vulnerability, and included within the reformed social assistance system. The authorities are
supporting the transition from humanitarian assistance (declining in overall magnitude for
several years) to self-reliance for IDPs and refugees - the latter have, to varying extents,
already been integrated. Recently the Governmrent took an important step to begin the
permanent re-settlement of select groups of IDPs and refugees on available land within
Azerbaijan. Presidential Decrees have been issued instructing the relevant government



15
departments to settle issues on land title, organization of resettlement and other related
matters and allocating funds to support the construction of housing and other necessary
investments.
63.  Efforts to build capacity in IDP communities and facilitate their ability to gain
productive employment continue with support of the international donor community. The
Pilot Reconstruction Program has helped to consolidate the return of IDPs to their homes in
some of the western rayons and the establishment of the Social Fund for Development of
IDPs creates the foundation to facilitate employment generation and an improvement in the
living standards of IDPs. However, its capacity is modest and represents only pieces of what
requires a multi-faceted approach. A process of social assessment and consultation is to be
integral in the resettlement plans and conducted shortly.
Poverty Monitoring
64.  The SSC has recently revised its methodology for conducting household living
standard surveys to improve estimates of household income and expenditures and other vital
data to determine the well being of the population. The survey is based on a probability
sample, and is designed to provide data which are representative nationally and which can
also be used to study differences in regional living standards, and among different strata of
the population. 2,000 households are interviewed each quarter, providing an annual sample
of 8,000 households. The SSC has collected data for three quarters of 2001, and is working
on improving the quality of the data produced through introducing further checks on data
entry and perfecting the structure of the survey questionnaires. The quarterly household
survey process has now been firmly institutionalized with appropriate funding from the
annual state budget and staffing including the hiring of 20 additional survey interviewers.
65.  The analysis of this data, completed by the SSC with assistance from the World Bank
and the Asian Development Bank, will serve as the basis for constructing an updated poverty
profile, i.e. an assessment of poverty incidence, its severity, and the identification of regions
and particular types of households registering higher rates of poverty (for example,
households headed by unemployed or pensioners, or families with many children). The
poverty profile will be critical background information for completing PRSP preparation, and
should be updated annually to closely monitor the impact of economic development and
public policies on the poor. The World Bank is also preparing a Poverty Assessment.
IL.2.3.  Improve strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-term public
expenditure and investmentprograms
Management of Energy Revenues
66.  The oil windfall has been handled well to date, with the Government avoiding oil-
fueled spending sprees, rapid external debt accumulation, or excessive real appreciation of
the exchange rate. To improve management of natural resource revenues, the State Oil
Fund was established by Presidential Decree on December 29, 1999. The Fund was set up as



16
an extra-budgetary institution accountable to the President and became effective at the
beginning of 2001. Preparation of the Oil Fund budget and the Government budget will be
done in tandem, within overall macroeconomic and fiscal aggregates to be agreed with the
IMF, and the consolidated budget presented to Parliament. Sources of Oil Fund revenues
include bonuses and revenues from sale of crude oil and gas, and earnings from related
activities. Initially the Oil Fund's assets amounted to US$270 million. These assets are
programmed to increase to US$487 and US$636 million in end-2001 and end-2002
respectively. The authorities, in agreement with the TMF, decided to use only interest
earnings from Oil Fund assets during the next 3 years, in order to mitigate the potentially
negative effects of possible Dutch disease from the oil boom. Also according to the
Regulations, envisaged uses include construction and reconstruction of strategically
significant infrastructure facilities and socio-economic progress.
67.  A Supervisory Board was appointed in December 2001 with representation of
Parliament nominated by Parliament itself and of civil society. The preparation of the Oil
Fund's budget and investment policy will be carried out in consultation and coordination
with the MOF and endorsed by the Supervisory Board prior to approval by the President. Oil
Fund expenditures (other than administrative expenses) will be part of the approved and
published Consolidated Budget, MTEF and, for investment projects, of the PIP, which all
will be submitted to the Parliament according to the New Budget System Law.
68.  In the initial stage, the Oil Fund aims to build up its capital. Prudential asset
management guidelines have been developed to ensure that the assets are managed in a
professional way, and in an open and competitive tender internationally recognized firms are
hired to manage the assets. The intention of the Oil Fund's disbursement rules is to allow the
Fund to make a contribution to current consumption and to domestic capital investment on a
sustainable basis. The adopted Regulations provide that the Oil Fund budget be prepared at
the same level of detail and classification as the state budget. Furthermore, the expenditure of
the Oil Fund will be consistent with the approved annual state budget and (except for its own
administrative expenses) will be executed through the Treasury, subject to standard
accounting, procurement and other rules. In line with its Regulations and in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, the Oil Fund is expected to publish accounts regularly,
starting in 2002, audited by an intemationally recognized auditor, as well as an annual report
and budget. In addition, the Oil Fund will be audited by the Chamber of Accounts.
Unaudited financial information on the revenues and assets of the Oil Fund have been
released to the general public and mass media on several occasions and will continue to be
released at least on a quarterly basis. Furthermore, quarterly published budget execution
reports include information on Oil Fund expenditures.
69.  The Oil fund expenditures are: (i) strictly limited to funding projects within the
consolidated Govermment budget, which correspond to strategic priorities as outlined in the
PRSP, MTEF, and PIP; (ii) channeled through the Treasury; (iii) consistent with the overall
fiscal policy, which aims at continued macroeconomic stability and growing the national
wealth, including the value of human, physical and natural resources; (iv) subject to high
standards with regard to accountability and transparency to ensure aggregate fiscal restraints
and good govemance essential for fiscal discipline and avoiding the danger of hurriedly and
ill-conceived expenditure projects; (v) not only to be based on the availability of resources,



17
but also to take into account institutional capacity to spend these efficiently today, as
compared to saving them for future generations; (vi) subject to a proper assessment of risk
and uncertainty, especially with regard to volatile oil prices; and (vii) not to be made for
investing in commercial activities where the private sector is typically more efficient. In this
way, the Oil Fund will create an effective liquidity constraint for the Government, insulating
its assets from political spending pressures. Adherence to the Oil Fund regulations and
disclosure rules is a structural performance criterion of the ongoing IMF's PRGF program.
70.   A  Medium-Term    Public Expenditure   Strategy (MTES) published by the
Government, outlines the priorities for consolidated public expenditures (i.e. including the
Oil Fund) and the corresponding expenditure allocation path for the next three years. The
Strategy stipulates implementation and governance arrangements for those consolidated
public expenditures, as well as key institutional and policy reforms envisaged in the public
expenditure area during this period. The rules and principles that would determine the
magnitude of expenditures out of the Oil Fund during these three years are formulated,
together with a timeframe for the fiscalization and eventual elimination of utility subsidies.
Within this strategic framework and on the basis of ongoing PRSP work, the Government
will formulate consistent medium-term expenditure programs for the social sectors and a
three-year PIP by end-September 2002. The end-result should be a sustained growth path
with public resources specifically targeted to empowering the poor. Estimates suggest that
with sustained implementation of the reform program and if the projected path of oil and
non-oil sector growth materialize, this could result in a per capita GDP of about US$2,000 in
2010, which has to lead to very significant improvements in social indicators and reduction
in poverty levels.
71.   Given the current low-income status of Azerbaijan and the pressing need to reduce
poverty, some of the oil funds, consistent with sustainable development, will be allocated for
additional expenditure for lifting bottlenecks that prevent growth and especially affect the
poor. For the next few years, during which oil revenues are expected to be more modest, the
authorities has decided to spend only the interest earnings on the accumulated Oil Fund
assets. Direct poverty reducing measures are warranted to alleviate the plight of the poorest,
and among them the one million IDPs and refugees of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Thus,
the first US$36.0 million have been allocated for housing projects for IDPs. Other
alternatives for spending out of the Oil Fund are investment in human capital and
rehabilitation of infrastructure, especially in rural areas.
II.2.4.   Transparency andfinancial discipline in the energy sector, including
fiscalization of quasi-fiscal activities
72.   Less than adequate financial discipline, non-payments, explicit and implicit subsidies,
and large quasi-fiscal deficits in the electricity (Azerenergy), gas (Azerigaz), and water
(ARWC for Baku) sectors constitute possibly the most serious and difficult problem facing
the economy of Azerbaijan. In 2000 the resulting quasi-fiscal deficit is estimated in the order
of 20 percent of GDP. The resulting high economic and social costs are manifested in
increasing inefficiencies and consumer losses caused by frequent systems breakdown, as well



18
as direct impact on health and poverty. Recognizing these enormous human and economic
costs, the Government has designed a comprehensive reform program to strengthen financial
discipline and improve service delivery in utility sectors.
73.   The quasi-fiscal deficit originates from three main sources: (i) implicit subsidies,
resulting from charging below market prices for fuel oil and natural gas supplied by SOCAR
to Azerenergy and Azerigaz for domestic consumption; (ii) non-payments for gas and
electricity supply; and (iii) excess of technical losses and theft. Table 1 shows estimates of
the three sources of quasi-fiscal deficit in the energy sector during 1998 and 1999.
Accumulation of quasi-fiscal expenditure on such a scale signals a lack of financial
discipline, has potentially destabilizing macroeconomic effects, and creates barriers to entry
of the private sector.
Table 1: Estimates of Quasi-fiscal Deficits in the Energy Sector, 1998 and 1999
US$ million               1998             1999
Implicit Subsidies       136.1            268.4
Non-Payments             276.7            190.5
Excess losses, theft      54.2             34.2
Total                    467.0            493.1
(11.2% of GDP)  (13 % of GDP)
Source: World Bank estimates
74.   The same situation is observed in the water supply sector. The quasi-fiscal deficit
originates from similar sources: (i) non-payments for water supply (collections in 2000 were
only 36 percent of billings-a substantial drop from previous years caused in part by the
recent policy change to eliminate non-cash forms of payments); (ii) excess of technical losses
and wastage (estimated to be higher than 50 percent of water production) closely linked to
deferred maintenance of the network and no metering of the domestic consumption; and (iii)
implicit subsidies, resulting from tariffs being charged below operations and adequate
maintenance costs. A rough quantification of the quasi-fiscal deficit in the water supply
services (only in Baku) amounted in 2000 to about US$68.5 million or 1.3 percent of GDP in
2000. Tariff differentials between domestic and non-domestic customers remain very high
(tariffs for industrial customers are 12 times higher than those for domestic customers).
Finally, in the case of explicit subsidies, ARWC has been required to provide water to
privileged categories of customers without the corresponding budget transfers.
75.   Accumulation of quasi-fiscal deficits results in worsening of the fiscal position and
additional debt accumulation to finance the additional expenditures. In this context the
energy sector has accumulated US$530.8 million of foreign debt, which is government
guaranteed and therefore puts an additional burden on the State Budget (although much of it
is concessional). Furthermore, the quasi-fiscal deficit erodes tax revenues substantially. Tax
and other budget payments arrears of SOCAR, Azerenergy and Azerigaz have been
accumulated in the amount of US$603.4 (13.6 percent of GDP) in 1998 and US$865.3
million (19.0 percent of GDP) in the year 1999.



19
Table 2: Breakdown of Tax and Other Budgetary Payments Arrears by Enterprises
US$ millions       1998       1999
SOCAR              508.7      782.8
Azerigaz            41.9       12.1
Azerenergy          52.9        70.4
Total              603.4       865.3
Source: World Bank estimates
76.   Similarly, the water supply sector in Baku has accumulated US$74 million of foreign
debt (US$63 million of which are concessional). ARWC has accumulated tax and other
budget payment arrears (including arrears to Azerenergy) of about US$110 million in 1999
(closely linked to total accounts receivable of US$105 million).
77.   According to a recent report prepared by the MOF, the statutory tax dues of SOCAR
for 2001 are estimated at US$743 million, or nearly 60 percent of total revenue. The actual
tax receipts, however, are projected at US$347 million, which means that SOCAR's tax
compliance is below 50 percent. Furthermore, taxes are not levied on SOCAR in respect of
the portion of SOCAR output that is delivered on Government instructions to Azerenergy,
Azerigaz, and several other users. If these taxes on state orders were taken into account, the
SOCAR's tax liability in 2001 would amount to US$868 million, or just below 70 percent of
total budget revenue. SOCAR has performed sizeable quasi-fiscal operations on behalf of
the Government. The implicit subsidies it provides to Azerenergy and Azerigaz through free
fuel and gas deliveries are estimated at current prices at about US$434 million. The
Government will make this subsidy explicit on the published budget, and SOCAR will
receive a tax credit of the corresponding amount.
78.   Another adverse implication of the deficit is deferral of maintenance. The lack of
resource savings does not enable the state companies to invest in maintenance. Although the
alternative option of borrowing is used, there is still a large amount of maintenance that
simply does not happen. Systems break down causes significant losses to customers, and
high cost-penalties are associated with having to completely replace equipment long before
the end of its theoretical economic life. Productive and social costs are high, especially in
rural areas, where utility services often are cut off.
79.  Reform Strategy. In order to resolve the quasi-fiscal problem, the Government has
developed a comprehensive program in consultation with the staffs of IDA and IMF. A
summary of the program is attached to the LDP. The Government is committed to a phased
program establishing financial discipline in the energy and water sectors and largely
eliminating the quasi-fiscal deficit in these sectors within 5 years. Besides strengthening
financial discipline, an ambitious utilities restructuring and privatization program is an
essential component of this comprehensive program. The objective is to enhance efficiency
by bringing capital needed to maintain service, monitor consumption (meters) and improve
management through private operators with incentive to improve collections. Work has been
initiated to formulate an appropriate framework for regulation of these natural monopolies.
Furthermore, while eliminating implicit and extra-budgetary subsidies and introducing
explicit budgetary subsidies, a more effective social safety net will need to be put in place.
The regulatory reforms and private sector development sections below, as well as the



20
strengthening of social assistance targeting described above comprise together with the
actions to eliminate the quasi-fiscal deficit a comprehensive and coordinated program to
resolve the problems of the utilities services.
80.  In order to strengthen financial discipline, key elements of the program include:
(i) enforcement by energy and water companies of the right to cut off non-paying customers
and Government monitoring of the disconnection program; (ii) allocation in the 2002 budget
of appropriate funds to budget organizations to pay their utility fees, strict supervision over
the payment of these fees, and disconnection of institutions that consume in excess of the
limits; (iii) provision of adequate compensation in the state budget for utility fee subsidies to
poor households; (iv) delivery of services to enterprises with a history of delinquency only on
the basis of advance payments; and (v) bringing subsidies from SOCAR to the energy and
water companies explicitly on the books of the MOF, and compensated by a corresponding
tax credit to SOCAR.
81.  The Government has established a baseline methodology to calculate and monitor
implicit subsidies to Azerenergy, Azerigaz, and ARWC. The phased program of elimination
of the quasi-fiscal deficit in the utility sectors will have as the 2002 target -a reduction of
implicit subsidies in the electricity, gas, and water sectors by at least 20 percent overall from
the baseline formula established and at least by 15 percent in each individual sector, through
a combination of better cash collection, increased tariffs and/or efficiency gains. The exact
targets for collection, tariffs and reduction in the implicit subsidy will be issued as a
Presidential decree in March 2002, as a prior action for effectiveness of SAC-II.
82.  Addressing the problems of household payments is more complicated. The program
includes plans for the modernization of electricity, gas, and water meters, as well as plans for
the gradual replacement of untargeted implicit and explicit subsidies. In this context, the
Government will review the current schedule of preferential tariffs, with the aim of
eliminating them or replacing them with explicit budget support. This program will include a
schedule for the gradual unification of domestic and exported prices of oil, with the
unification to be completed during a 3-year period, and the elimination of controls on the
domestic price of oil products. It is recognized that given large investment requirements just
for metering such a program will not succeed without privatization. The authorities will thus
embark on a carefully prepared and phased utilities privatization program in parallel with
regulatory and tariff policy reform, as described below. Utilities privatization will enhance
efficiency by bringing capital needed to maintain quality service, monitoring consumption
(meters) and improving management of these companies, and last, but not least, by creating
an in-built incentive of private operator to improve collections.



21
II.2.5.  Reduction of conflicts of interest and corruption in the business
environment, including enforcement of regulations, separation of regulatory and
commercialfunctions, and tax and customs
The Energy Sector
83.   Pursuant to the Presidential Decree of April 18, 2001, the Ministry of Fuel and
Energy (MOFE) has been established. By coordinating the Government's policy in the
energy sector this should improve the ability of Azerbaijan to manage the challenges of
reforming and strengthening the sector. The Government has recently approved the scope of
work and structure of the new Ministry, taking into account international good practice in
this area, as well as the recommendations from a recent consultants' report, "Electricity and
Natural Gas Restructuring and Regulatory Reform " (April 2001), supervised by IDA. Many
specific details still remain to be decided in the course of implementation. TACIS and IDA
are both expected to assist the Government in these critical design issues.
84. Separation of Functions. As an initial step the Government will transfer existing
regulatory functions carried out by state-owned operating companies to the MOFE.
The MOFE's main role would be the formation and coordination of energy sector policy.
This includes establishment of policies for pricing, hydrocarbon resource development,
energy efficiency, energy security, international energy representation, and sector statistics
and forecasts. A second, vitally important step is the separation of policy and regulatory
responsibilities within the MOFE apparatus. This separation could eventually lead to full
autonomy for the electricity and natural gas sector regulator, and to substantial independence
for the upstream regulatory functions in the medium term. The Ministry would co-ordinate
energy issues with other ministries on social protection, environment, foreign policy, trade
and taxation. Finally, the Ministry would be responsible for governance of energy companies
in the public sector (e.g. SOCAR, state-owned gas and power companies), although the
Ministry will not be involved in day-to-day management of the companies, nor in
commercial issues and operations.
85.  Electricity and Natural Gas Regulation. Over the medium term, as capacity is built,
regulation of electricity and natural gas industries may best be carried out by an independent
Regulatory Authority, separate from the MOFE. In such case, the Authority would be
responsible for elaborating detailed regulations and procedures for participants in the gas and
power industries, licensing of investors, consumer protection and adjudication of disputes.
The Government, assisted by international advisors, is working on the regulatory framework
and on a strategy to adjust utility tariffs towards full-cost levels and to enforce payments,
including phased provisions for protecting the poor. In 2002 appropriate economic prices for
electricity, gas, water, wastewater and solid waste will be determined, with a time-bound
plan to move tariffs to economic pnrces, and implement appropriate country-wide tariff
changes will be approved and published. A Tariff Regulatory Council with participation of
relevant Government institutions was established end-January 2002.
86.   Upstream Oil & Gas Regulation. Azerbaijan has been able to create a stable
environment for investment in upstream oil and gas projects, and the authorities have been
using PSAs to provide the legal framework, with parliamentary approval required in each



22
case. Technical capability to negotiate PSAs with foreign oil companies has been
concentrated within the Foreign Investment Department of SOCAR. As part of the
restructuring of institutional responsibilities in the energy sector, the MOFE has assumed
overall policy coordination for upstream matters. Development of specialized upstream
regulatory responsibilities with some separation from the core policy functions of the
ministry could follow, and this unit should build on the capabilities already established in
SOCAR.
87.  Development of the institutional framework outlined above and appropriate staffing
would take longer than the proposed timeframe for SAC-Il. SAC-IL conditions hinge on the
inter-related policy actions with respect to quasi-fiscal deficit reduction, development of the
regulatory framework, private participation, and strengthening the social safety net. Second
tranche actions include specific progress of quasi-fiscal deficit reduction, release of bid
packages for specific energy distribution entities, and implementation of regulatory
arrangements developed over the course of the next year.
88.  Donor Coordination and TA. TACIS is assisting with the establishment of the
MOFE, continuing design work initiated in 1999. PPLF is financing policy and regulatory
framework assistance in electricity and natural gas. It is expected that capacity building of
energy sector institutions may also benefit from IBTA-II.
Water Distribution
89.  Social surveys indicate that 87 percent of Baku residents perceive piped water to be
unsafe and 81 percent consider water shortages a severe or very severe problem. On average,
water is available to individual households in Greater Baku about 22 days per month, four
hours per day. Household surveys indicate 89 percent of the population does not drink
directly from the water tap and between 9 and 13 percent of households report illnesses due
to the poor quality of water. While all Baku households face substantial costs responding to
unreliable and low quality water supply, lower income households in particular spend as
much as 7 percent of their income on coping strategies.
90.  The ability of the water sector to provide services to the population is being
jeopardized by rapid deterioration of physical systems; large targeted investment needs;
outdated technology; limited managerial and financial skills; and an extremely difficult
financial situation, compounded by recent earthquake damage to underground pipes. ARWC
is doing an admirable job in maintaining operation of the systems and has improved its
institutional and technical capacity through the implementation of the Greater Baku Water
Supply Project, supported by IDA. With substantial and sustained support ARWC could,
over the long-term, be transformed into a well-run utility. However, the urgency of the water
supply and wastewater problems in Greater Baku requires more decisive action, facilitated by
introduction of private operators.
91.  The National Water and Wastewater Strategy recommended an international utility
operator to manage the integrated water and wastewater system for the Greater Baku area
(including the Apsheron Peninsula), so as to gain economies of scale and attract high quality
international utility operators. The Strategy also indicates the need for more effective



23
Government regulation to ensure quality of service and protection of consumers. Finally, the
Strategy discusses the importance of selecting a private operator through a competitive,
transparent process. Discussions with international utility operators during preparation of the
Strategy indicated their strong interest in the water and wastewater services for the Apsheron
Peninsula under certain circumstances. In light of reduced interest by international operators
in emerging markets, this interest would need to be reassessed, but is unlikely to remain
without involvement of the IFIs to ensure continued reforms of the sector and possible
financing support.
92.  IDA's involvement in the preparation of the transaction to bring in the private sector
would provide international best practice experience, is expected to substantially reduce the
risks of a non-transparent selection process, bring adequate attention to social and
environmental issues as well as equity in the provision of services, and promote the
implementation of reforms needed for the success of the transaction. EBRD and IFC have
expressed interest in the transaction provided that the Bank is involved in its design and the
set-up of the regulatory framework and reforns needed for its viability. IDA is looking into
mobilizing grant funding for the preparatory studies and providing support in the supervision
of these studies to ensure their quality. Furthermore, IBTA-I, at the Government's request,
would fund the retainer fee for financial and technical advisors to the privatization
transaction.
Overall Business Environment
93. The Government has taken measures recently that have resulted in a significant
reduction of obstacles for private sector development. The licensing regime is being
reviewed, and the legal basis for a market economy has been introduced based on the new
constitution and reforms in the legal system. The introduction of modern criminal, civil and
tax codes lighten the burden and inject objectivity into the tax regime. A Presidential Decree
was issued in late 2000 abolishing all internal inspection/control departments in the
Ministries, except for the internal audit department in the Ministry of Finance.
94. The Government has also taken measures to address corporate governance issues,
which often greatly impede private investment, and especially foreign direct investment. In
this regard, the Government has already required international accountiag standards (IAS)
in financial and oil sectors, and will require all joint stock companies over a threshold level
of turnover to produce accounts in line with IAS from 2002, as well as set a timetable for
requiring that an annual report including the accounts is made publicly available.
95. Despite these measures, much remains to be done. The Government is seeking Bank
Group support for improving the investment climate in the non-oil sectors. A diagnostic
review of the investment climate has been initiated in November 2001, with FIAS, to
evaluate changes since a 1999 study (BEEPS). The diagnostic study includes a review of the
legal and institutional framework for investment, comparing it with the situation in
competitor countries, evaluating impediments and making concrete recommendations. The
diagnostic includes a business environment and costs survey of 100 foreign and domestic
firms, to help identifying major problem areas, provide a basis for a future administrative
barriers study and serve as a tool to measure progress (benchmark) in the future. Based on



24
the results of this survey and supported by SAC-II, the Government would agree on a set of
policy actions to improve the business climate for both foreign and domestic investment and
business creation.
96.  To complement the findings of this study the Government is also planning to conduct
an investors' conference. The objective is to create awareness of the country's business
climate and get feedback from investors to structure its investment environment and
privatization program, to maximize inflow of foreign direct investment, and local job
creation.
97.  Tax Administration. Significant progress has been made in the area of improving tax
administration. A new Tax Code has been adopted, the practice of negotiating tax and social
protection fund payments has been abolished, and the tax administration is undergoing a
comprehensive program to improve its operations with the help of the IMF. The aim of this
program is to: (i) ensure that the no-contract approach is used for all return filing;
(ii) improve the Tax Ministry's organizational structure; (iii) strengthen the Large Taxpayer
Unit, centralize its operations, and clarify the criteria for inclusion of taxpayers in this unit;
and (iv) institute a properly designed and funded comprehensive training program, improve
recruitment and testing procedures for new employees, and provide remuneration levels that
allow the recruitment of competent staff.
98.  In order to ensure the use of proper accounting standards the Government will issue an
instruction that the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Taxes is to use IAS accounts from
SOCAR, Azerenergy, Azerigaz and ARWC from 2004 for monitoring and taxation purposes.
99.  The State Customs Committee (SCC) has signed a contract with an international
reputable firm for technical assistance with modernization, and a new organizational
structure has been adopted. The Government has implemented a new tariff nomenclature, and
monthly reports are published on imports and customs revenue, by tariff band, as well as
excise collections by product. A Presidential decree has been issued reducing the scope and
clarifying the procedures for granting exemptions. The Government has eliminated all ad hoc
tariff exemptions, restructured the tariff schedule maintaining a 15 percent maximum tariff
rate, and introduced the harmonized system. SCC has also introduced a code of conduct, and
a law on customs brokers has been adopted. Finally, the first phase of linking customs
offices into a wider area network has been completed.
11.2.6.  Improving transparency,financial discipline and competition in the
banking sector
100.   Financial sector reforms is an essential part of the Authorities private sector
development in order to improve intermediation and improve enterprises' access to credit at
lower cost. Three key elements are: (i) an adequate regulatory framework including
prudential regulations, capital adequacy ratios, bank supervision, etc., and the exit of
institutions that do not meet these; (ii) efficient transaction systems; and (iii) adequate
capitalization and competition so that credit demand can be competitively met within the
limits of capital adequacy ratios.



25
101.  In 1999, with financial and technical support of the IMF and IDA, the Authorities
started implementation of a comprehensive banking sector reform program to facilitate the
delivery of financial resources to the real sector and to the population, and, ultimately, to
stimulate sustainable economic growth in particular for the non-oil sector. The Authorities
Reform Strategy for the Financial Sector includes the following main elements:
(i) restructuring and privatization of remaining state-owned stakes in banks; (ii) consolidation
and rationalization of privately-owned banks; (iii) enhancing the regulatory, supervision and
banking resolution capacity of the ANB; (iv) enhancing the legal framework; and
(v) developing the institutional and technical infrastructure necessary to support a sound,
efficient and competitive banking system, including accounting, payments systems, and
auditing.
102.   During the past three years, the Government and ANB have achieved substantial
results: (i) the ANB Supervision Department has completed a diagnostic study of all private
banks and the licenses of a substantial number of private banks have been revoked, reducing
the total number of banks to 59; (ii) the banking licenses of Savings Bank, Prominvest and
Agroprom Bank were revoked - BUSbank was created through the merger of the viable part
of these three banks, and a limited banking license was issued; (iii) a decision has been made
by Government to establish a non-bank rural credit organization on the basis of Agroprom
Bank; (iv) a Memorandum of Understanding, defining the activities of BUSbank, was
prepared in cooperation with IMF and the World Bank and signed by the Minister of
Finance, the ANB and the Management of BUSbank;9 (v) the Real Time Gross Settlement
system for large value payments was introduced in February 2001; and (vi) the Securities
Committee and the Baku Stock Exchange have been established.
103.   The following additional steps are planned for 2002: (i) further technical
assistance is being provided to BUSbank to assist with development of internal capacity, with
the ultimate objective of its privatization; (ii) ANB will continue rationalization and
consolidation of the banking sector; (iii) IAS compatible National Accounting Standards for
banks will be introduced, together with necessary revision of laws and regulations; and (iv) a
low-value payments system will be implemented. The Authorities are being supported by the
IDA Financial Sector TA project to implement these measures. Immediate actions include:
(i) preparing the International Bank of Azerbaijan (IBA) for privatization - currently the
Government holds 50.2 percent; (ii) issuing a Government decision to start preparation to
privatize BUSbank and committing to a timetable for this; (iii) inviting expressions of
interest for foreign banks to be licensed to take deposits and provide credit and other full-
scale banking services in Azerbaijan; and (iv) lifting the "non-binding" ceiling on the share
of foreign banks on the domestic market to 50 percent.
104.   The ANB will expedite revision of the legal framework, including the Central Bank
Law, the Law on Banks, the Law on Payments System, the Bankruptcy Law, and drafts will
be submitted to Parliament for approval. The ANB has also undertaken in consultation with
IMF and IDA staff, a comprehensive review of: (i) factors inhibiting development and
competition in the banking system; (ii) factors that may be inhibiting the activities of foreign
banks in Azerbaijan; and (iii) the regulatory burdens placed on banks by Government
9 BUSbank is currently prohibited from engaging in lending, and may hold currency position only for sales of cash currency.



26
agencies. A program of reforms has been designed to address any problems identified in this
review, in consultation with the IMF and IDA.
I.2. 7.  Improving the privatization process
105.   The Government has made substantial progress in the first privatization program
with the privatization of small and medium-sized business and with the privatization of land
and equipment in agriculture. Under the new program, as set out in the Law and Presidential
Decree on the Second Privatization Program, smaller enterprises can be privatized by order
of the Minister of Economic Development and larger enterprises by order of the President.
Around 70 auctions of small and medium-sized enterprises have been held since the start of
the program. The Government is currently preparing for the President's consideration a list of
450 public enterprises in the machinery, oil, chemical, and food sectors to privatize in the
course of the program, and has also announced a list of enterprises to be privatized during
2001-2003 period.
106.   The Government is committed to a transparent and accelerated process of
privatization according to international best practice, and is receiving assistance from the
World Bank through IBTA-I. Presidential decrees for privatization of energy and water
distribution are expected by end-March 2002. In telecommunications, the Baku Telephone
network, Aztelecom, Baku Telegraph, and other enterprises have been endorsed for
privatization. Within the transport sector the airlines and affiliated companies are slated for
privatization. The privatization program is to be announced at a privatization and investment
promotion conference, once the FIAS study is completed.
107.   The authorities have requested IDA involvement to ensure the integrity of the
process through compliance with international standards of transparency.  IDA
intervention through SAC-II will include the Water, Gas and Electricity sectors - these are
crucial for the reforms to proceed in an effective and transparent manner and to contribute to
achieving the poverty alleviation goals of the PRSP. The exact form this private involvement
will take is yet unclear, given the rapidly changing climate for attracting strategic private
investors into the utility sector in emerging markets, even those much more developed than
Azerbaijan. Accordingly, the program supported by SAC II envisages caution with respect
to both the form of private participation and the timetable, with more precision likely only
after the initial work has been done by the financial advisors for these transactions.
108.   Many industrial enterprises are in severe distress and have suffered significant dis-
investment over the past decade. They continue to employ significant numbers of people -
many in areas where alternative employment opportunities are limited - and remain a
significant fiscal drain. The employment and associated social impact of privatizing these
enterprises are important factors. The Government will thus adopt a comprehensive and
integrated Industrial Privatization and Labor Redeployment program for this group of
enterprises. Funded by IBTA-I, the Government will issue two RFPs for consultant work in
this respect, one to develop a detailed strategy for privatization of industrial enterprises, and
the second for the design of a comprehensive labor re-deployment program.



27
III. THE PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
111.1. LINKS TO CAS AND OTHER BANK OPERATIONS
109.   Conformity with CAS. The proposed SAC-II is consistent with the Bank Group
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Executive Directors on September 14,
1999 (IDAIR99-157/1[IFC-R99-145/1). The CAS outlines a three-part agenda for
accelerating poverty reduction and growth in Azerbaijan: (i) reform of public sector
institutions; (ii) a strengthened regulatory and business environment for private sector
development (particularly in the non-oil sector); and (iii) investment in social development,
including targeted poverty alleviation measures.  At that time, uncertainties over the
Government's reform intentions led the Bank to place Azerbaijan in the Low Case. During
most of 2000, the policy dialogue remained stalemated-largely over Bank concerns about
governance.
110.   Over the course of the past year, the policy environment in Azerbaijan changed. The
success of the stabilization program, growing foreign investor interest, and the prospect and
risks of large-scale oil revenues possibly combined to strengthen the reforms. Renewed
reforms did not stem from a need to deal with a debt or related financing crisis. The advent
of the PRSP process provided an important opportunity for the IMF and World Bank to re-
engage with the Government in a medium term economic development strategy with the twin
objectives of tackling poverty and strengthening governance, as outlined in Part II above.
The Government's I-PRSP envisages a broad-ranging program that aims to achieve major
reforms in public sector management, the business environment and social development
during the next 2-3 years. Important measures have already been adopted in a number of
areas, leading to the approval of the PRGF arrangement by the IMF in July 2001. Box 1
below presents some of the key measures taken to improve governance in particular.
The proposed SAC-II seeks to catalyze further action in some of the most politically sensitive
and technically complex areas of the Government's program and follow through with the
proper implementation of these. In sum, as provided for in the 1999 CAS, SAC-II is a key
instrument to move the Bank program from the current Low Case to the Base Case.
111.   CAS Base Case Triggers. The 1999 CAS specified seven triggers for moving from
the low case to the base case, of which six have been met: (i) satisfactory macroeconomic
framework; (ii) approval of the Privatization Law; (iii) development of extension services for
farms and agro-industries; (iv) maintaining real value of public expenditure on social services
and improving targeting; (v) relatively satisfactory overall performance of IDA portfolio; and
(vi) significant progress in improving the condition of IDPs as agreed under the Social Fund
Project. Satisfactory implementation of the then proposed Public Sector Reform Adjustment
Credit (PSRAC) was also a trigger for the base case (and not vice versa). PSRAC has been
replaced by the proposed SAC-II in order to: (i) take on board the emerging concern about
the quasi-fiscal deficit; and (ii) to take account of actions already taken in the public sector
reform sphere.



28
Box 1. Recent Actions taken to improve Governance
* Begun to implement COM reform designed to improve governance.
* Reaffirmed, in connection with establishment of an extra-budgetary Oil Fund, adherence to principle
of consolidation of revenues and expenditures of the overall government in order to facilitate the
preparation and implementation of a sound macroeconomic policy, and also announced that the
forthcoming normative regulations regarding the annual program of revenues and expenditures of the
Oil Fund will state that: (i) preparation and the execution of the program of the Fund's revenues and
expenditures will be carried out within the framework of the above-stated principle of consolidation
and in close co-operation and coordination with the Ministry of Finance; (ii) any expenditures of the
Fund's assets will be executed only within the approved annual budget of the Fund and through the
treasury; and (iii) the Fund will publish quarterly statements on its revenues.
* Adopted regulations regarding asset management and investment strategies for the Oil Fund,
approved by the IMF.
* Revoked the banking license of Agroprom bank and cancelled the outstanding debts of Agroprom to
ANB, replacing them with long-term bonds issued by the Ministry of Finance.
* Signed a memorandum on operating principles for the state-owned BUSbank.
* Issued a decree that makes managers of budgetary organizations responsible for avoiding new utility
arrears, and instructs utility managers not to supply services to budgetary organizations beyond
budgeted levels.
* Instructed SOCAR, Azerenergy and Azerigaz to deliver to the Government monthly cash-flow
statements on a timely basis, beginning in January 2001; to be shared with the Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Taxes, Ministry of Economic Development (MOED) and the ANB, as well as the IMF
and IDA.
* Issued an international tender for bids for an assessment and evaluation of ways to improve
governance in the Customs Committee.
* Appointed the head of the Chamber of Accounts, the Government's supreme audit institution.
* Submitted to Parliament a revised Procurement Law (acceptable to IDA).
* Issued a public statement informing suppliers that the Government accepts no responsibility for
expenditures undertaken outside the budget.
* Issued a decree granting the Ministry of Finance, and Ministry of Taxes authority to oversee the cash
flow of state-owned enterprises (who are among largest taxpayers or with significant payments
falling due in 2001 on government-guaranteed loans - including SOCAR, Azerenergy, Azerigas,
Azerchemia, Caspian Shipping, the state railway and airline companies, and the Ministry of
Communications).
* Enacted modern Tax Code, and improving tax administration with IMF technical assistance.
*   Introduced merit-based nomination and test-based selection and appointment of all judges.
* Enacted new Civil Code, Law on Ombudsmen, Law on Prosecutors and on Lawyers, Civil
Procedures, as well as Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes.
* Enacted a new Law on Public Service, and increased substantially salaries of the 25,000 top
government employees.
* Abolished all internal inspection/control departments in ministries, except MOF internal audit.
*   Announced a second phase privatization program, agreed certain procedures to foster transparency
and competition, opening new areas for the private sector (including telecom, gas and water
distribution, and airlines), and pre-announced list of enterprises to be privatized.



29
112.   Under the SAC-II supported program it is expected that substantial further progress
will be made in: (i) governance; (ii) the business environment; (iii) transparent budget
execution and accounting; (iv) implementation of a budget system which ensures aggregate
restraint and addresses sector priorities strategically; and (v) implementation of effective
external and internal audit capacity; (vi) tackling the complex problems in the utilities
services.
113.   The SAC-II is a follow-up operation to the SAC (IDA/R97-77), taking into
account lessons learned from implementation of that credit. The SAC addressed the
issues of creating competitive markets, notably land, reducing the role of the state in
economic and commercial activities, and developing an efficient banking system.'0 Post-
implementation assessments generally find that the credit's objectives and components were
appropriate to the reform challenges at the time, but that implementation was weak. The SAC
also did not score well in regard to its poverty and social impacts. These shortcomings reflect
the fact that, given the objectives of the SAC, the design and implementation arrangements
did not fully incorporate key social issues and the views of major stakeholders through a
participatory process. Furthermore, the QAG rated SAC poorly in regard to risk mitigation
and sustainability, raising questions on the extent of borrower ownership and the adequacy of
the institutional capacity base, and recommending closer linkage of tranche release
conditions to the achievement of development objectives as opposed to processes.
Nonetheless, as noted earlier and above, after a hiatus, the authorities have made renewed
progress in the reform areas supported by the SAC during the past 18 months.
114.   Lessons learned from SAC are:"I (i) transition to a market economy is a gradual and
lengthy process that is marked by incremental changes to the status quo - in other words -
over-ambitious goals and short time frames should be avoided; (ii) capacity constraints
cannot be understated, and should influence the design and timetable of our operations in
countries such as Azerbaijan; (iii) there may sometimes be a justifiable reason for adjusting
the implementation timetable; and (iv) more efforts should be put to ensure objectives are
shared with a broad range of Government counterparts.
111.2. OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
115.   SAC-I1 is designed to support and deepen the recent reform momentum. More
specifically, it aims to bolster crucial components of the Government's structural reform
program that are intended to: (i) enhance public sector efficiency; and (ii) accelerate non-oil
sector growth. In particular, SAC-II would support (a) public sector reforms to strengthen
policies and institutions for public expenditure management, poverty monitoring, social
services and safety nets through better targeting and special initiatives for refugees and IDPs;
and (b) accelerated and more broad-based development of the non-oil sector through
continuous diagnosis and improvement of the business environment, and improved financial
discipline and service delivery in the utility sectors. Besides eliminating a major source of
soft-budget constraints and facilitating private participation, utility sector reforms would
'0 See Report Nos. 2978-AZ and 2978-1-AZ.
See Implementation Completion Report No. P041261.



30
reduce the health risks associated with unsafe water, as well as the social, economic and
environmental consequences of unreliable electricity and gas supply.
116.   Loan Design. The proposed SAC-II is designed as a two-tranche operation, with the
expectation that it will be followed by one or more similar SACs or Poverty Reduction
Support Credits (PRSCs) within a medium-term framework supporting the Government's
five-year Poverty Reduction Strategy, and in full coordination with the IMF PRGF and
programs of AsDB, EBRD and other international development partners.
111.3. PROPOSED CONDITIONS
117.   SAC-II focuses on the most intractable and highest priority problem areas. All of the
actions listed below as prior actions and second tranche conditions are or should be
satisfactory to IDA, and remain so.
118.   Prior Actions. Many policy actions encompassing a broad range of reforms have
been taken by the authorities during the last nine months, as described in Part II and Box 1.
They provide substantial and concrete initial steps as evidence of the Government's
commitment to carry through with reforms in these difficult areas. Some constitute critical
steps to establish conditions for meaningful and timely reform implementation in the coming
period, and define benchmarks for monitoring of outcomes.
119.   Core policy actions to be taken prior to Board presentation are:
I. Improving transparency and accountability in public financial management,
including the establishment of the supreme audit institutions
1.    Submit to Parliament Budget Systems Law that, inter alia, any resources
withdrawn from extrabudgetary funds, other than for meeting the State Oil
Fund's own administrative expenses, should be channeled through the state
treasury.
2.    Eliminate or integrate 9 large extrabudgetary funds/operations into the state
budget.
3.    Enact and make effective new Public Procurement Law, and adopt its
implementing mechanisms.
4.    Adopt standard reporting format to monitor extent and quality of
implementation. Establish base line to assess progress in implementation.
5.    Approve CPAR preparation action plan as presented in Initiating Concept
Memorandum (ICM), including nomination of a Government counterpart
team for CPAR.
6.    Enact amendments to Law on Chamber of Accounts establishing the
Chamber as the supreme audit institution of the Azerbaijan Republic, and
submit Charter to adopt standard reporting format to monitor extent and
quality of implementation, and establish base line to assess progress in
implementation.



31
II. Strengthen the tracking of poverty-reducing expenditures, and monitoring of
expenditure impact on poverty
7.    Institutionalize the household survey, including adequate budget allocation in
draft 2002 budget.
8.    Approve and publish the 2002 public expenditure program for IDPs.
III. Improve strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-term public
expenditure and investment programs
9.    Adopt a Governance and Management Framework. for the Oil Fund, that
provides for professional fund management under appropriate oversight,
includes prudential investment rules and guidelines for desired risk-return
combinations, requires publication of the audited annual accounts, and
publish the 2002 Oil Fund budget.
10.   Appoint Oil Fund Supervisory Board with appropriate representation of
Parliament nominated by Parliament itself and of civil society. Proposed Oil
Fund expenditures are subject to review and endorsement of the Supervisory
Board.
11.   Adopt and make public a medium-term public expenditure strategy, covering
consolidated public expenditures and setting out clearly the development
objectives, principles, sectoral and program priorities, and major planned
expenditure reforms, including articulation of the role of the Oil Fund in
supporting that expenditure strategy, and consistent with the poverty
reduction strategy outlined in the I-PRSP and elaborated in the PRSP under
preparation. The Government agrees to formulate annual budgets within the
framework set out in the medium-term public expenditure strategy.
12.   Adopt rule that Oil Fund expenditures (other than administrative expenses)
will be part of the approved and published Consolidated Budget, MTEF
and/or PIP.
IV. Introduce transparency and financial discipline in the energy sector,
including fiscalization of quasi-fiscal activities
13.   Establish a preliminary baseline formula of implicit subsidies in the energy
sector, together with procedures to measure and monitor the level of these
implicit subsidies.
14.   Approve and publish a phased program to eliminate the implicit subsidies
completely from the energy and water sectors within 5 years. The program,
inter alia, stipulates that SOCAR, Azerenergy, Azerigaz and ARWC will be
instructed to deliver: (i) monthly financial and operational management
information to monitor implicit subsidies; (ii) annual audited financial
statements; and (iii) a plan to upgrade their financial management
arrangements.



32
15.   Issue and publish decree prohibiting the use of netting operations in
transactions to pay energy and water tariffs involving budgetary institutions
and/or state-owned enterprises.
V. Reduce conflicts of interest and corruption in the business environment,
including enforcement of regulations, separation of regulatory and
commercial functions, and tax and customs
16.   Issue and publish Policy Statements on reform, restructuring and private
sector participation in electricity and gas sectors.
17.   Issue and publish decree that transfers regulatory functions in the energy
sector away from commercial operations, to appropriate government
institutions (e.g. joint participation of Ministry of Energy, MoF and MED
within the frame of their functions) or independent regulatory agencies.
18.   Commence diagnostic study of the investment climate, complemented by a
firm-level survey of administrative costs conducted by an independent Azeri
research company, to identify key barriers to business and to develop
baseline indicators to monitor progress over time.
VI. Improve transparency, financial discipline and competition in the banking
sector
19.   Lift the "non-binding" ceiling on the share of foreign banks' capital in the
domestic market to 50 percent.
120.   Second Tranche Conditions. By the time of second tranche, the intention is for the
authorities to have established a longer track record of institutional and structural reforms as
well as some tangible evidence of the results. It is proposed that the second tranche would be
released upon completion of the following core conditions:
I. Improve transparency and accountability in public financial management,
including the establishment of the supreme audit institution
1.    Cabinet approval of Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for 2003-2005.
2.    Cabinet approval of Public Investment Program for 2003-2005 consistent
with Medium-Term Expenditure Framework.
3.    Cabinet approval of 2003 budget consistent with Medium-Term Expenditure
Strategy and Framework, and prepared according to key provisions of new
Budget Systems Law (calendar, comprehensiveness, documentation and
disclosure), publication of 2001 budget execution, and implementation of
2002 budget according to new Budget Law as applicable.
4.    Integrate all remaining state extrabudgetary resources into the state budget
with the exception of the Oil Fund.
5.    Adopt country specific procurement documents.



33
6.    Provide evidence of satisfactory implementation of public procurement
implementation plan pursuant to the base line.
7.    Institute a process of random reviews by independent procurement auditor of
completed procurements, and conduct pilot audits in 2002. Publish pilot
results as well as plans for any appropriate remedial action.
8.    In respect of the Chamber of Accounts: (i) appoint the Chamber's seven
Auditors; (ii) develop a revised organizational structure; (iii) formulate staff
grades with appropriate job descriptions and recruitment criteria; (iv) equip
the Chamber with appropriate numbers and types of computers and software;
and (v) prepare the Chamber's 2003 work plan and present related 2003
financial plan to Parliament.
9.    Submit to Parliament, reports on budget execution and other reports for the
six month period ending June 30, 2002.
10.   Provide evidence of satisfactory implementation of public financial
accountability action plan, where benchmarks will be determined with the
assistance of the CFAA.
II. Strengthen the tracking of poverty-reducing public expenditures, and
monitoring of their impact on poverty
11.   Prepare a poverty profile based on revised household survey, and define a
new poverty line for Azerbaijan.
12.   Conduct benchmark incidence analysis of public expenditures for health,
education and social assistance.
13.   Adopt a medium-term strategy for enhancing targeting of social assistance
and alleviating the impact on the poor of new public utility policies.
14.   Provide evidence of satisfactory implementation of 2002 expenditure
program for IDPs and prepare IDP plan for 2003 budget.
15.   Allocate funds in education budget for 2003 for the provision of free basic
textbooks for all public school students in grades 1-5, and for IDP and
refugee students grades 1- 11.
III. Improve strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-term public
expenditure and investment programs
16.   Publish 2001 audited accounts of the Oil Fund.
17.   Publish quarterly financial and budget execution statements satisfactory to
IDA, i.e., with expenditures (other than administrative expenses) in
accordance with the Consolidated Budget, and financial flows in accordance
with Governance and Management Framework.
18.   Satisfactory review of governance arrangements of Oil Fund.



34
IV. Introduce transparency and financial discipline in the energy sector,
including fiscalization of quasi-fiscal activities
19.   Reduce implicit subsidies in the electricity, gas, and water sectors by at least
30 percent overall from the baseline formula established and at least by 30
percent in each individual sector, through a combination of better cash
collection and/or tariff adjustments, and/or increased efficiency.
20.   Provide evidence that budgetary institutions have been current with utility
payments for at least six months.
21.   Production by SOCAR, Azerenergy, Azerigaz and ARWC of: (i) monthly
financial and operational management information to monitor implicit
subsidies; (ii) annual audited financial statements; and (iii) a costed, time-
bound action plan to upgrade their financial management arrangements.
22.   Establish track record of at least 6 months compliance with Decree
prohibiting the use of netting operations in transactions to pay energy and
water tariffs involving budgetary institutions and/or state-owned enterprises.
V. Reduce conflicts of interest and corruption in the business environment,
including enforcement of regulations, separation of regulatory and
commercial functions, and tax and customs
23.   Approve draft regulations for electricity, gas, and water sectors.
24.   Complete transfer of policy and regulatory functions related to the energy
sector from commercial operations to Ministry or regulatory agency.
25.   Determine appropriate economic prices for electricity, gas, water, wastewater
and solid waste, approve and publish a time-bound plan to move tariffs to
economic prices, and implement appropriate country-wide tariff changes for
2002.
26.   Develop a system to monitor progress over time in the reduction of barriers to
investment through annual firm-level surveys by an independent Azeri
research organization reporting the results publicly to a suitable non-
governmental body.
27.   Provide evidence that SOCAR [and 3 other large SOEs tbd] are being
assessed tax liabilities in 2002 that comply fully with the tax laws.
VI. Improve transparency, financial discipline and competition in the banking
sector
28.   Sell 20 percent of Government's shares in the IBA (the largest state bank) to
one of the highly rated international finance/credit organizations and offer for
sale the remaining part (30.2 percent) of the state-held founding capital
through cash auctions or international tender to one or more fit and proper
strategic investor(s).



35
111.4. BENEFITS
121.   The main benefits to be achieved under SAC-Il are:
*   In concert with the PRSP process, broader pro-reform constituency in the
Government and Parliament.
*   Enhanced financial and fiscal discipline, transparency and accountability in
public finances (including the Oil Fund) that will help efforts to reduce problems
of corruption and governance as well as to change the associated perceptions
that dampen investment activity;
*   First step in process to improve public expenditure management processes and
analysis designed to create and to implement poverty reduction strategy
expenditure measures consistent with the PRSP;
*   Improved expenditure policies set in a consistent medium-term framework, and
based on clear priorities, rules-based fiscal relations and accurate/timely
information for effective targeting and monitoring, especially concerning
poverty;
*   Better business environment for SMEs and new FDI;
*   Reduced practice of non-payment for utility services, which is a major source of
soft-budget constraints inhibiting enterprise restructuring;
*   Improved financial viability of key utility sectors, including through private
participation, which should lead to more reliable electricity, heating and clean
water for the population; and
*   Enhanced prospects for growth of the non-oil economy and employment.
111.5. COMPLEMENTARY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
122.   The proposed Second Institution Building and Technical Assistance Credit (IBTA-II)
would provide critical support to the broader reform program described in Part II.
Privatization of utilities, development of the regulatory framework and institutions, as well
as launch of the new Budget Systems Law, Treasury Systems, and Chamber of Accounts will
require substantial financial and technical resources. In addition to IBTA-II, implementation
of the Government's reform agenda is being or would be supported by substantial resources
and TA from IBTA-I, PPIAF, ESMAP, the Financial Sector TA credit, and Water Supply
Projects, as well as FIAS, IFC, IMF, ADB, UNICEF, EBRD, and Swiss trust funds.
111.6. ADMINISTRATION OF THE CREDIT
123.   Disbursement, Procurement, and Auditing. Disbursements from the proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Credit equivalent to US$60 million in SDR will be made to an
account (Deposit Account) of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) established at the National
Bank of Azerbaijan. The MOF, which will have in place adequate accounting and financial
management reporting systems for the Deposit Account, will maintain records of all
transactions under the loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. The Government



36
will submit to the Bank a monthly receipts and payments account showing the transactions
on the Deposit Account, starting with the receipt of Bank funds and ending when the balance
on the Deposit Account has been reduced to nil. The Borrower shall: (a) have the Deposit
Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available but
in any case not later than three months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonable required; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested. The audit will be carried out at quarterly intervals as agreed with the Bank,
calculated from the date of first tranche release, with suitable adjustments of timing
depending on the funds left in the Deposit Account at any point in time. The terms of
reference for the audit will be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower. Audits would end
once all funds have been transferred from the Deposit Account. In addition to the above, the
Bank may request that its own staff (or a specialist contractor working on its behalf) carry out
special reviews of the Deposit Account. If, after deposit into the Deposit Account, the
proceeds of this loan are used for ineligible purposes, the Bank will require the Borrower to
either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (ii) refund the
amount directly to the Bank.
124.  The Credit will be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of thirty-five years,
including ten years of grace period. The first tranche (US$30 million equivalent) will become
available upon Credit effectiveness, based on review by IDA of the implementation of the
adjustment program. The second tranche (US$30 million equivalent) will become available
upon the satisfactory review by IDA of the implementation of the policy measures scheduled
for end 2002. Whenever Azerbaijan's per capita GNP shall have exceeded the IDA
obligatory level for three consecutive years, the Association may require the Government to
repay twice the amount of each installment, and also shorten the grace period, though not to
less than five years.
125.  Management and Reporting. The overall coordination of policy measures would be
undertaken by the Prime Minister, who would be expected to hold monthly meetings with
high-level government officials to assess progress in implementation. The Bank's resident
Country Manager would be expected to participate in these meetings. Monitoring of
implementation would be delegated to a Coordination Team under the Ministry of Economic
Development.  Each implementing institution will designate a Government official
responsible for implementation and reporting to the Coordination Team, with copies to the
World Bank Country Office. The Coordination Team would be expected to prepare the
Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report within six months of the
closing date.
126.  Environmental and Social Impact. According to Operational Directive 4.01,
SAC-II has been placed in Category U. Nevertheless, SAC-II has been reviewed for its
environmental and social impact by ESSD and found satisfactory. The TA associated with
implementation of the reform program has been carefully designed to incorporate proper
assessments and institutional capacity building related to these important concems



37
111.7. RISKS
127.   There are two major risks to successful implementation of the reform program being
supported by SAC-II: (i) the risk that non-reformers/vested interests frustrate or delay key
elements of the program; and (ii) implementation delays due to the limited institutional
capacity of the Government. The political risk is especially noteworthy given Azerbaijan's
complex political and socioeconomic situation. Against these risks should be set the
following: a track-record of some five years of responsible macro-economic management,
especially the oil boom, including notably the avoidance of large external debt or ill
conceived investments; reforms re-initiated this past year outside the context of an IMF or
IDA financed adjustment program; consistency with the PRSP, both the substance and the
process of engaging the public in their formulation are important mitigating factors. As
regards institutional capacity, as noted above, a broad array of technical assistance from the
Bank and other donors is already in place. The proposed IBTA-II project, being prepared to
succeed IBTA-I (closing in September 2002), and to complement the assistance being
provided through the Health, Education, Financial Sector Credits, as well as support from
both IMF and ADB, will address critical remaining bottlenecks and ensure transparency in
sensitive areas such as the privatization of the utility entities.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
128.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with the Association's Articles of
Agreement and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, DC
February 13, 2002






Azarbaycan Respublikasinin                                PRIME-MINISTER
BAS   NAZIRI                                      of Azerbaijan Republic
13akl aah., Lcrinontov ku  68.  I11tlek(s 370066 Tel.: 92-41-61. 92 56-:3
Th!iels 1.12163 1BA13Ba, Falks 921161, 0S971f  Baku, sl. Lerrnontov, 68
,,- 10Xoo2002i1 I                                                   /      6-  3
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C., 20433
Azerbaijan's Reform Program for
Balanced Economic Growth and Reducing Poverty
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    The Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan is pursuing an ambitious and far-
reaching policy agenda to accelerate structural reforms aimed at balanced economic
growv-th and poverty reduction as well as strengthening transparency and accountability in
the public and private sectors. Our poverty reduction strategy is outlined in the Interim
Poverty Reductioni Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). which was presented and approved by the
Boards of the World Bank and IMF at the beginning of July 2001. We are in the process
of developing a full PRSP. In support of the Government's reform program, we would
like to confirm our intention to seek financial assistance fiom IDA under the proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-II) in the order of US$60 million equivalent
divided in two equal tranches. Structural reforms that will be supported with this credit
aim  at maintaininlg macroeconomic stability and balanced economic growth by



Annex I                                                              Page 2 of 24
developing the non-oil sector, strengthening governance and financial discipline,
fostering private sector development as well as strengthening the social safety net and
pension system. Our structural reforn agenda is complementary to the macroeconomic
program, supported by the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) approved by
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on July 2, 2001. This letter has three sections:
(i) an overview of economic policies, (ii) recent economic developments and the
macroeconomic framework, and (iii) the Government's structural reform agenda. The
Government's comprehensive program for reforms in the utilities sector is further
elaborated in an appendix. The refonn measures supported by the proposed SAC-II are
summarized as prior actions in the attached Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix as
well as actions to be completed by end-2002.
OVERIVIEW
2.    Following the break-up of the Soviet Union, Azerbaijan faced difficult initial
conditions that resulted in serious macroeconomic imbalances and a dramatic output
collapse. In the first half of the 1990s, our economy experienced a cumulative real GDP
drop of about 60 percent, accompanied by hyperinflation, sharp currency depreciation
and nearly depleted foreign exchange reserves. In 1995 we launched a comprehensive
stabilization program, supported by the IMF and the World Bank. Fiscal and credit
policies were tightened, while a number of structural reforms were introduced, mainly in
the areas of exchange rate and trade liberalization. At the same time, prospects for growth
improved, as our state oil company (SOCAR) signed a number of production sharing
agreements with foreign investors.
3.    During the second half of the 1990's, Azerbaijan registered strong recovery and
the cumulative growth rate was more than 40 percent. Initially, the pattern of this
recovery was uneven, as it was dominated by the growth of the oil sector. During 1995-
1999, manufacturing output, as measured by the official statistics, for example, continued
to fall; the relatively labor-intensive light and food processing industries were hit
particularly hard, and output of consumer durables fell sharply as well. In 2000 and 2001,
however, our economy has registered strong broad-based economic growth across
sectors, including in agriculture. Our progress in securing macroeconomic stability,
managing the oil windfall, and in price and trade liberalization, as well as in land and
small-scale enterprise privatization has been important factors behind this turnaround.
4.    Our macroeconomic policies have restored financial stability and economic
growth during the second half of the 1990s. Despite these achievements, important
challenges need to be overcome if future growth prospects are to be realized, and provide
for rapid expansion of employrnent and income opportunities and a decline in poverty - in
1999, roughly a quarter of the population was estimated to be living on less than US$2 a
day and about I million people were refugees or internally displaced people (IDPs). The
non-oil sector remained constrained by problems with financial discipline and less than
efficient delivery of public utility services resulting in large quasi-fiscal deficits.
Structural refonns were proceeding, but needed to be accelerated to ensure the economic
performance of the non-oil sector, and to reduce high unemployment. We have now



Annex I                                                              Page 3 of 24
accelerated reforms in a wide range of areas: management of oil revenues, government
restructuring, legal framework, budget preparation and public expenditure management,
tax and customs administration, financial sector discipline, business investment
environment, elimination of the quasi-fiscal deficit, utility restructuring and privatization,
as well as better targeted social protection and services.
5.    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. To address poverty and unemployment in a
comprehensive fashion, the Government prepared an I-PRSP, which was discussed by the
Boards of the Fund and the Bank in early July 2001, and we are preparing a full PRSP to
be completed in the summer of 2002. The Government is taking a participatory approach
to preparing, implementing and supervising the PRSP process allowing all segments of
the population to express their views on the pnrorities and gain understanding of and
commitment to the goals of the poverty reduction program.
6.    The main challenge - raising incomes and creating jobs. The strategy set out in
the 1-PRSP defines the reduction of widespread poverty and unemployment as the main
economic challenge for Azerbaijan. Tackling these problems requires balanced growth,
which in turn calls for increased investnent not only in the oil sector but in the non-oil
sector as well, to ensure that the benefits of economic growth in terns of both rising
incomes and jobs are widely shared. Recognizing the crucial role of the private sector in
this endeavor, the second privatization program has been approved to create an economy
with a rapidly growing private sector. Similarly, recognizing that growth depends upon
the willingness of the private sector to invest, the Government will create an attractive
investment climate by removing obstacles and steadily strengthening governance,
transparency and accountability. At the same time, the Government will increase its own
capital expenditure and improve the effectiveness of public investment management by
developing a Public Investment Program (PIP) consistent with PRSP. Finally, to underpin
business competitiveness, the Government will pursue particular initiatives in key
sectors, notably securing rapid progress in the key hydrocarbon projects, abolishing
unjustified energy and water sector subsidies while bringing in private sector
participation, stimulating agriculture and developing financial markets.
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
Growth and Employment
7.    After a steep economic decline following the break-up of the Soviet Union, our
economy has grown at a rapid pace since 1997. In 2000, real GDP expanded by 11.1
percent. the highest rate for the last 10 years reflecting both sound policy adjustments
and hiigh oil prices. In 2001, growth is expected to have remained robust, despite the
global economic downturn and the impact of September 11 terrorist attack. Initiaily, the
econoiTmic recovery was largely driven by the rapid development of the oil sector. In 2000
and 2001, however, our economy has registered strong economic growth across sectors,
including in agriculture, whereas the oil sector growth moderated as current oil
production reached its capacity levels.



Annex I                                                                Page 4 of 24
8.    The labor market dynamics, however, are more disappointing, as the level of
employment has stagnated despite the recent rapid recovery. The main reason behind this
development is that although the oil and gas sector has made a major contribution to the
value of output and generated an increasing share of foreign exchange earnings and fiscal
revenues it created only few productive employment opportunities. Since 1995 the
employment growth has taken place in agriculture and services, where output per
worker is relatively low in comparison with the industrial sector.' The economy was thus
characterized by a significant portion of the labor force engaged in low productivity, part-
time employment with low incomes. The task of restoring productivity in Azerbaijan is
further complicated by the large number of displaced persons.
Macroeconomic Policies
9.    Despite large capital inflows of about 20 percent of GDP per annum, fiscal and
monetary policies in Azerbaijan have prevented sustained real exchange rate appreciation
since 1995. By end- 1999, the real effective exchange rate was about the same level as at
end-1994, and has since depreciated by 10 percent. Monetary policies were adjusted in
late 1997 - when strong inflows were not fully sterilized - and again following the
Russian crisis - when policies were eased and the nominal exchange rate allowed to
depreciate - to prevent excessive real appreciation.
10.   Oil strategy. Macroeconomic reforms were accompanied by successful
implementation of our oil strategy, which relies on attracting foreign companies with
capital and know-how to exploit the country's oil and gas potential on the basis of
Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs). As a result, since 1995 Azerbaijan has been the
fastest growing country in the CIS, with high levels of foreign direct investment per
capita. Because the oil and gas sector is likely to be the main engine of growth, it will be
important to create a business climate in which other sectors of the economy can reap
maximum benefit from the income generated in the oil and gas sector and from this
sector's input needs. We intend to accelerate structural reforms in the economy and in
social policy and realize that those are critical to rising incomes and poverty reduction.
We will also continue to maintain macroeconomic stability through continuing fiscal
consolidation, prudent management of budgetary and Oil Fund revenues and avoiding
excessive exchange rate appreciation.
11.   Monetary Policy. The practice of financing the deficit through money creation or
loans from Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB) has been terminated. ANB has kept growth
of Manat reserve money consistent with low inflation, despite the impact of large capital
inflows. To achieve low inflation, the ANB is targeting monetary aggregates and uses a
managed float exchange rate. This helps to smooth short-term fluctuations and to prevent
excessive nominal appreciation, as large capital inflows associated to oil sector
investments may place upward pressure on the Manat. The reserve position of the ANB
strengthened as well. In 2000, credit expansion was moderate, and interest rates were
INote, however, that the increase in agricultural employment observed in 1999 is partially due to the
change in the sector classification used by Goskomstat. Thus any results pertaining to the agricultural
sector should be treated witlh caution.



Annex I                                                              Page 5 of 24
stable, reflecting the strong fiscal performance. The 12-month inflation rate has declined
from 2.2 percent in end-2000 and to an estimated rate of 1.3 percent in 2001.
12.   Fiscal Policy. At the onset of our independence, we faced double-digit fiscal
deficits, which were largely attributed to difficult initial conditions. In recent years we
have managed to achieve relatively low overall deficits and avoided substantial
accumulation of domestic or external debt. Since 1995 public finances have been
considerably strengthened and restructured, as revenues have grown and the deficit has
been reduced. Fiscal policy has been directed to ensuring macroeconomic stability,
accelerating economic development, improving the social situation of the population,
minimizing the budget deficit and funding the deficit by non-inflationary sources.
Budget revenues grew during 1995-2000 from 17.6 to 21 percent of GDP due to higher
oil prices and a shift from direct taxes to taxes on consumption (VAT, excise, and
import). Tax rates have been progressively lowered and the tax base has been widened as
compliance has improved. We recognize the need to make further progress with tax
administration reform and with implementation of the new Tax Code. An important
milestone was the introduction of the single-account Treasury system.
13.   We have eliminated accumulation of arrears and are now in the process of
implementing a comprehensive reform program directed towards elimination of the
quasi-fiscal activities in the utilities sector. While high oil prices were behind the strong
increase in government oil revenues in 2000, our restrictive fiscal policy was also an
important factor behind overall deficit reduction. The general government deficit
(excluding the Oil Fund) in 2000 was 3.5 percent of GDP, and 2001 it is estimated at 2.2
percent of GDP.
14.   External Sector. Large current account deficits through the last decade were
mostly driven by the sizeable increase in imports related to foreign investments in the oil
and gas sectors. Those were by and large financed by capital account surpluses resulting
from strong FDI inflows and official lending. In 2000, the external current account deficit
dropped substantially, as oil exports doubled in dollar terms, combined with a 24.8
percent decline in oil sector imports, which was accompanied by a slowdown in
investment activity by the Azerbaijan International Operating Company (AIOC). Non-oil
exports of goods and services also increased significantly, while non-oil imports
increased by 12 percent. As a result, the current account deficit dropped from over 13
percent of GDP in 1999 to below 3 percent of GDP in 2000. In 2001, the current account
deficit reduced to about 2.3 percent of GDP, due to the increase in service import by the
oil sector and the recent lower oil price.
MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGY
15.   Our medium-term policy strategy to achieve our policy objectives is outlined in
the I-PRSP document. We are committed to maintaining macroeconomic stability
through continuing fiscal consolidation, prudent management of budgetary and Oil Fund
resources and through avoiding excessive exchange rate appreciation. Against this
backdrop, and in light of projected major increases in oil revenues, our medium-term



Annex I                                                                Page 6 of 24
reform strategy has two basic objectives. The first is to create a public sector that
manages efficiently the country's natural resource wealth and delivers on key social and
economic services, which is critical to our poverty reduction efforts. The second is to
remove impediments to growth and employment in the non-oil sectors.
16.   We recognize that to achieve sustainable development and growth with inclusion,
we need to accelerate: (i) public sector structural reforms to strengthen governance,
management of future energy revenues, policies and institutions of public expenditure
management; and (ii) non-oil sector development through improvement of the business
environment, financial sector reforms, energy sector refonns and private sector
development to derive maximum benefits from the expected increase in oil activities.
17.   The role of the oil and non-oil sectors. The successful development of the oil
sector is crucial to maintain growth. In the medium terrn, economic prospects depend
upon developments in four major projects: full field development of the Azeri-Chirag-
Guneshli (ACG) oil field; the construction of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) oil pipeline
to transport the oil from this field to the Mediterranean; the development of the Shah
Deniz gas field; and a gas pipeline from Baku to Turkey parallel to the new oil pipeline.
We expect major investments associated with these projects to take place during 2002-
2005. These projects would require investments in the order of $13 billion,2 or more than
twice 2001 GDP, and will be financed primarily by external sources. Until these projects
are implemented, growth in the oil sector is likely to slow down due to export capacity
constraints.
18.    For 2002-2004 the oil and gas sector production is expected to remain fairly
stable. Despite the large import component of these oil sector investments, some share of
this investment will be domestically produced, with a positive effect on construction,
transport and service sectors. The industrial sector, however, is not likely to benefit much
from this oil-related increase of investment. This calls for vigorous implementation of
structural reforrns, including privatization, to improve fuirther its economic performance.
Based on these assumptions, an annual average growth rate of 9-10 percent in the
medium terrn is within reach. Beyond 2005 we project double-digit oil sector growth over
the medium termn, provided that Phase I of ACG and the initial phase of Shah Deniz will
come on stream.
19.   The State Oil Fund. Without a major new discovery oil production is expected to
reach a peak by 2011 and subsequently decline fairly rapidly. To avoid excessive
exchange rate appreciation and to preserve the Nation's wealth and savings ensuring
sustainable development and efficient management of the oil boom, we will accumulate
oil revenues from PSAs and similar agreements in the State Oil Fund. The Oil Fund will
allow Azerbaijan to save part of oil revenues and prevent adverse effects from
excessively rapid transfers of oil revenues into the domestic economy. It provides the
necessary financial mechanism to separate commercial decisions on oil extraction from
public spending decisions. A fraction of the oil revenues, conservatively estimated and
consistent with sustainable development will be allocated for additional expenditure for
2 This estimiate is provided by British Petroleum, the lead player in these projects.



Annex I                                                              Page 7 of 24
lifting bottlenecks that prevent growth and especially affect the poor. Direct poverty
reducing measures are warranted to alleviate the plight of the poorest, and among them
the one million IDPs and refugees of the Nagomo-Karabakh conflict.  Second,
investment in human capital can be increased, thus making the new generations better
equipped to succeed in a market economy. Third, there are huge needs for rehabilitation
of infrastructure, especially in rural areas. Nonetheless, by strictly limiting Oil Fund
expenditures to funding projects within the consolidated Government budget, we aim to
prevent a loosening of fiscal discipline and avoid the danger of hurriedly and ill-
conceived expenditure projects.
20.   When it comes to sustained economic development and poverty reduction, the
world has seen more failures than successes with oil windfalls, and the many risks
associated with the oil resources must be identified and properly managed. We shall
continue to resist the inevitable political pressures to spend our oil wealth rapidly, and to
be prudent we are taking into account the following factors: (i) any spending out of the
Oil Fund need to be consistent with the overall fiscal policy, which aims at continued
macroeconomic stability and growing our nation's wealth, including the value of human,
physical and natural resources; (ii) additional resources shall be allocated according to
strategic priorities, as outlined in our forthcoming PRSP and our medium-term
expenditure strategy; (iii) spending decisions shall not only be based on the availability
of resources, but also take into account our institutional capacity to spend efficiently;
(iv) we are maintaining high standards with regard to accountability and transparency of
the Oil Fund to ensure aggregate fiscal restraints and good governance; and (v) we will
properly account for risk and uncertainty, especially with regard to volatile oil prices.
21.   The coming three years, leading up to the materialization of substantial oil
revenues are of crucial importance. We have published a Medium Term Public
Expenditure Strategy that outlines the priorities for consolidated public expenditures
(i.e. including from the Oil Fund) and an associated expenditure allocation path for the
next three years. The Strategy stipulates implementation and governance arrangements
for those consolidated public expenditures, as well as key institutional and policy reforms
envisaged in the public expenditure area during this period. The rules and principles that
detennine the magnitude of expenditures out of the Oil Fund during these three years are
fornulated, together with a timeframe for the fiscalization and eventual elimination of
utility subsidies. Within this strategy framework and on the basis of ongoing PRSP work,
we will by end-September 2002 fonnulate consistent medium-tenn expediture programs
for the social sectors and a three-year PIP. The end result should be a sustained growth
path with public resources specifically targeted to empowering the poor. Estimates
suggest that with sustained implementation of the reform program and if the projected
path of oil and non-oil sector growth materialize, this could lead to a per capita GDP of
about US$2000 in 2010, which has to lead to very significant improvements in social
indicators and reduction in poverty levels.
22.   External Position and the BOP. The current account improved substantially in
2000, owing to increased oil exports, higher oil prices, oil sector investment and an
imports slowdown. During 2002 -2004, we project sizeable increases in oil and gas



Annex I                                                                Page 8 of 24
related imports of capital goods and services, largely reflecting oil and gas related foreign
investments, while the oil export volume will remain fairly stable for the next three years.
The current account deficit is projected to increase sharply, peaking at almost 40 percent
of GDP in 2003 as imports for oil and gas investment grow.
23.   Although current account deficits will be financed by foreign direct investment
and official lending, considerable risks and uncertainties remain. Two main factors may
increase the vulnerability of our economy to external shocks within next three years:
(i) the risk of a protracted period of low oil prices may lower substantially the value of oil
exports and consequently our eaming capacity; (ii) any delays in implementation of the
pipeline, oil and gas projects may distance the prospects of increased exports capacity
and consequently earnings potential which would increase financing needs.
24.   External Financing Needs. Azerbaijan's external financing needs depend on the
level of world oil prices and on the implementation schedule of the four mega projects in
the oil and gas sector. Weaker world economy, as well as the shock from attacks of
September 11 resulted in substantial downward revision in the oil price projections. For
the year 2002, the world oil price projection was revised downwards by nearly US$6 per
bbl, which lowered our projected export revenues by more than US$400 million3. The
impact of lower oil prices on the overall balance of payments, however, is less severe,
since any reduction in export revenue translates into reduced capital repatriation of
invested capital and profits by international oil companies. Furthermore, during the fall of
2001, a previously unexpected decision was made to bring forward the Shah Deniz gas
field development project. These two factors resulted in higher than projected net foreign
direct investment, which broadly offsets the impact of lower oil prices on the balance of
payments in 2002. The residual financing need of US$72 million4 in 2002 is expected to
be covered by the IMF (US$42 million) and the disbursement under the proposed SAC-II
(US$30 million equivalent). In 2003, the projected financing gap of US$98 million is
expected to be closed by the anticipated disbursements from the PRGF (US$32 million),
the SAC-Il (US$30 million equivalent), as well as bilateral donors. Financing gaps for
2004 and 2005 are projected at about US$91 million and US$190 million, respectively.5
These gap estimates are very sensitive to oil price changes. According to the IMF, an oil
price drop of US$1 per bbl would reduce export receipts by US$76-79 million, with a
corresponding decline in the overall balance of payments by about US$31 million (0.5
percent of GDP), and a loss of government revenue of roughly US$35 million (0.6
percent of GDP) in 2002. This persistent balance of payments problem, combined with
low income, widespread poverty and the heavy burden of refigees and IDPs, make
Azerbaijan eligible for support under the IMF's PRGF and we are also seeking IDA
support through the proposed SAC-II.
25.   Longer-term prospects. Beyond the medium-term horizon, rapid hydrocarbon
production acceleration and expanded export capacities will allow us to improve our
3 WEO and DECPG oil price projection for 2002 changed from $24.4 per bbl as of Jun 2001 to $18.5 per
bbl as of Dec 2001.
4 Note, that if oil price would fall further, additional financing gaps are likely to occur.
5Those projections are based on WEO assumptions of $19 per bbl for 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively.



Annex I                                                               Page 9 of 24
external position. Beyond 2005 we project export volume to build rapidly, provided that
Phase I of ACG and the initial phase of Shah Deniz come on stream. In 2006, with the
full operation of these projects and the related increase in exports, and the sharp reduction
in oil sector investment-related imports, the current account deficit will be reduced
sharply-to 2 percent of GDP-before moving to surplus starting in 20076. Once
production starts to rise, fiscal and export revenues will increase rapidly, even if oil prices
decline moderately. Without a major new oil discovery, however, production and fiscal
revenues from the sector could peak in 2011 and then decline fairly rapidly, dropping to
less than half the 2011 level by 2017.
26.   Budget financing needs. Our fiscal policy during coming years will reflect the
need to maintain macroeconomic stability, to manage efficiently the oil revenues, to
strengthen financial discipline, and to increase budget allocations on social sector.
Therefore, the 2002 state budget reflects a number of important structural changes. On
the revenue side, we agreed with the IMF on important tax policy changes aiming at
reducing the tax burden on labor, and at the same time enhancing revenue collection
capacity. On the expenditure side, we are now introducing important structural changes,
such as: (i) the provision of adequate allocations for energy consumption of budgetary
organizations; (ii) the incorporation into the budget of some of the previously implicit
subsidies related to preferential utility, gas and transport tariffs; (iii) the intention to
increase allocations for social expenditure; and (iv) the continuation of the policy of
decompression of the govemment wage scale, which is an essential part of civil service
reform. Furthermore, we plan to increase capital expenditure out of the Oil Fund, to
improve the situation of IDPs and refugees. We project that these changes will result in a
consolidated deficit (excluding the Oil Fund) of 2.7 percent of GDP. Our objective is to
further improve revenue collections and efficiency of expenditure in the medium-terrn
and as a result, to achieve an overall cash deficit of the consolidated government
(excluding Oil Fund revenues) of less then 1.5 percent of GDP, by 2005, while at the
same time, to increase expenditure on health and education.
27.   External debt. The present level of external debt is considered as sustainable
albeit increasing, given its long maturity and low interest rates. Azerbaijan's stock of
external debt was about 54 percent of exports or 23 percent of GDP at end-2001. The
Government will coordinate external borrowing with the activity of the Oil Fund and the
budget to ensure that the overall fiscal position is sustainable. Government policy is to
limit external borrowing to a sustainable level, and in general, funds will be borrowed
only at concessional rates or when there are strong non-financial reasons for borrowing.
STRUCTURAL REFORMS
28.   Public sector reform is an essential element of the Govermment's adjustment
strategy and is supported by the PRGF program of the IMF, technical assistance from the
EU and other donors, and the proposed SAC-II. The objectives of our public sector
refonns are to: (i) enhance governance and aggregate fiscal discipline; (ii) to improve
6 These numnbers are based on the IMF projections of oil prices as of November 30, 2001.



Annex I                                                               Page 10 of 24
resource allocation and use; and (iii) improve efficiency and effectiveness of programs
and service delivery. To ensure these three outcomes, the public sector reforms are
directed towards the improvement of the main public sector functions: control of public
resources, planning for future allocation of resources, and management of resources
including oil related revenues.
29.   To enhance sustainable growth of the non-oil sector and private sector
development, the Government will: (i) reformn the financial sector; (ii) gradually eliminate
the quasi-fiscal deficit in the utilities sector; (iii) accelerate utility sector reforms
(electricity, gas and water); (iv) improve the business climate; and (v) modemize tax and
customs administration.
30.   Financial sector reform is essential for lowering the cost of credit and improving
the enterprises' access to credit, which is an important precondition for healthy private
sector growth. Lack of financial discipline and non-payment have caused a large quasi-
fiscal deficit in the electricity, gas, and water sectors. Further detrimental consequence of
these quasi-fiscal deficits is the deteriorating infrastructure, resulting from deferred
maintenance. The result is increasing inefficiencies in the long run because of system
break-down causing significant losses to users. This has high productive and social costs.
Thus, reform and privatization in the utilities sector will have a substantial impact on
both non-oil sector development, and on poverty reduction through improving the quality
of essential services.
31.   To eliminate the quasi-fiscal deficits, however, it is necessary to eliminate
implicit and extra-budgetary subsidies or replace them with explicit subsidies and cash
transfers directly accounted for in the budget. These subsidies need to be rationalized and
effective poverty targeting mechanisms need to be put in place through an improved
social safety net. The outcome of efforts to alleviate poverty will be better measured due
to the ongoing strengthening of our statistical methods for poverty monitoring, and
targeting of the IDPs. Furthermore, the Government is enhancing its program of free
schoolbooks to include fifth grade and all grades for IDPs.
Budgetary Planning and Public Expenditure Management
32.   We have adopted and made public a medium-term public expenditure strategy,
covering consolidated public expenditures and setting out clearly the development
objectives, principles, sectoral and program priorities, and major planned expenditure
reforms, including articulation of the role of the Oil Fund in supporting that expenditure
strategy, and consistent with the poverty reduction strategy outlined in the I-PRSP and
further elaborated in the PRSP under preparation. Annual budgets will be prepared within
the framework set out in the Medium-Termn Public expenditure Strategy.
33.   A new Budget Systems Law satisfactory to IDA and the IMF has been submitted
to Parliament on January 29, 2002. The Law, inter alia: (i) covers all relations with state
extrabudgetary funds, including the Oil Fund, (ii) provides for complete accounts of
extrabudgetary revenues, expenditures, and surplus balances as per economic and
functional classification levels; (iii) ensures the full and transparent reporting to



Annex I                                                             Page 1] of 24
Parliament of these accounts in the budget process; and (iv) stipulates that any resources
drawn from the extrabudgetary funds, other than for meeting the State Oil Fund's own
administrative expenses, should be channeled through the State Treasury. Budget
preparation in the new Budget Systems Law is organized around the Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF).   The Law provides the basis for output-based
budgeting instead of norm-based. The Law also establishes a fin-n link between local
budgets and the central consolidated budget and prevents local self-governing bodies
from borrowing outside the central budget of the Ministry of Finance. Based on
indicative total expenditure limits, line ministries and other spending agencies will submit
detailed medium-tenn revenue and expenditure estimates to the Ministry of Finance as
per economic (subsection) and functional (paragraph) classification levels with full
justification. Such estimates for current programs will be presented separately from those
related to approved new policies that will impact on estimates for the next fiscal year.
Separate comprehensive estimates of extrabudgetary revenues and planned utilization
will also be provided as well as revenue and expenditure estimates for investment
projects.
34.   A medium-term framework and policy statement will be submitted to Parliament
along with the draft Budget. That will include a MTEF for the state budget and the
budgets of each state extrabudgetary fund together with the details of major investments
and other projects compiled in the Public Investment Program (PIP). Among the main
indicators to be approved by the Law on the State Budget will be limits/ceilings on the
state budget deficit, net additional borrowing, the total stock of debt, and state guaranteed
debt.
35.   The new Budget Systems Law is expected to be enacted and made effective in
May 2002. Nevertheless, the Government will prepare the 2003 budget and the 2003-
2005 MTEF and PIP consistent therewith according to the new Law with the budget
preparation calendar starting in February 2002, and Cabinet approval before September
15, 2002. To the extent necessary, temporary regulations will be enacted by the Cabinet
to allow the budget preparation process to move forward pending final action on the Law.
36.   A New budget classification has been developed according to GFS and will be
implemented with the new Budget Systems Law. Furthennore, MOF has developed and
Ministry of Justice has approved, the formal rules for undertaking new commitments on
state budget expenditures, and for Treasury registration of goods, works and services.
These rules provide for clear formnal procedures that any budget organization needs to go
through to incur new commitments. By recent Presidential Decree the MOF is authorized
to appoint its representatives in state bodies that may incur government guaranteed
external borrowing in order to monitor and ensure compliance with these rules.
37.   Extrabudgetary funds.  The Parliament adopted the Law "On the Social
Protection Fund" on November 15, 2001, which provided for the specialized social funds
- Social Protection Fund, Disabled Person's Fund and Employment Fund - to be merged.
Similarly, according to the Law on Budget 2002 adopted by the Parliament, eleven extra-
budgetary funds (0.8 bln manats) out of 85 are to be included directly witlh the revenues
and expenditure parts of the Budget 2002. In 2003 the remaining extrabudgetary funds



Annex I                                                             Page 12 of 24
and operations of budget agencies will be included to the state budget. At that point the
Oil Fund will be the only remaining extrabudgetary fund. The Law on State Budget 2002
and the Law "On the Budget of Social Protection Fund" were made effective on January
1, 2002.
38.   The Govemment has approved a terns of reference (TOR) for technical
assistance to assist in drafting of rules and regulations for the Budget System Law as well
as with capacity building in MOF. Drafting will start in the Spring of 2002, and will be
based on a review of budgetary procedures, development of an action plan to strengthen
budgetary preparation and monitoring of budget execution, with the possible assistance of
the proposed Second Institutional Building and Technical Assistance Credit (IBTA-II).
39.   A Public Investment Appraisal Unit (PIAU) has been established recently in the
Ministry of Economic Development (MED) for technical, financial, and economic
evaluation of public investment projects. This will provide for effective selection and
prioritization of projects for the PIP. The Cabinet has approved TOR for technical
assistance with the PIP and capacity building in PIAU.
40.   The MOF is also building technical capacity for preparing macroeconomic
forecasting and investment planning. The MOF Macroeconomic Policy Group has
already produced a comprehensive set of medium-term macroeconomic and fiscal
projections. These projections have been used in developing the I-PRSP and budget
preparation.
41.   The Oil Fund with separate fully identifiable revenues and expenses, working
under the oversight of a Supervisory Board, was created by recent Presidential Decree as
an extrabudgetary fund. The Supervisory Board was appointed by the President of the
Republic of Azerbaijan in December 2001 with appropriate representation of Parliament
nominated by Parliament itself and of civil society. The preparation of the Oil Fund
budget will be carried out in consultation and coordination with the MOF. The draft
budget will be reviewed by the Supervisory Board and its opinion will be submitted to
the President prior the President's final approval and publication. Oil Fund expenditures
(other than administrative expenses) will be part of the approved and published
Consolidated Budget, MTEF and, for investment projects, of the PIP. The adopted
regulations provide that the Oil Fund budget be prepared at the same level of detail and
classification as the state budget. The expenditures of the Oil Fund (except for its own
administrative expenses) will be executed through the State Treasury and subject to
standard accounting, procurement and other rules. An internationally reputable firm will,
in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA), audit the annual financial
statements of the Oil Fund prepared in accordance with Intemational Accounting
Standards (lAS) and both the financial statements and audit report will be made public. In
addition, the Oil Fund will be audited by the Chamber of Accounts. Unaudited financial
infonnation on the revenues and assets of the Oil Fund have been released to the general
public and mass media and this practice will continue at least on a quarterly basis.
Furthemnore, quarterly published budget execution reports include information on Oil
Fund expenditures.



Annex I                                                             Page 13 of 24
42.   The Governance and Management Framework for the Oil Fund provides for
professional fund management under appropriate oversight, including prudential
investment rules and guidelines for desired risk-return combinations. These governance
arrangements will be reviewed in 2002. We understand that second tranche release of
SAC-Il funds is conditional on satisfactory conclusion of this review, and on satisfactory
quarterly financial and budget execution statements, i.e. with Oil Fund expenditures
(other than administrative expenses) in accordance with the Consolidated Budget, and
financial flows in accordance with the Governance and Management Framework.
43.   The Chamber of Accounts, that is the Supreme Audit Institution, has been
established. With the new Budget Systems Law, the enactment of amendments to the
Law on the Chamber of Accounts and the approval by the Milli Majlis of the Internal
Regulations (Charter) of the Chamber of Accounts, the Chamber is now being invested
with the necessary authority and rights to enable it to audit and make public the results of
its audits of all public sector bodies and organizations, including all budgetary and extra-
budgetary organizations and funds. Resources for the full staffing and proper functioning
of the Chamber have been allocated in the 2002 budget, and five auditors have already
been appointed by Parliament. Standard reporting fonnat has been adopted in order to
monitor extent and quality of implementation. During 2002 we will: (i) develop a revised
organizational structure; (ii) formulate staff grades with appropriate job descriptions and
recruitment criteria; (iii) equip the Chamber with appropriate numbers and types of
computers and software; and (iv) prepare the Chamber's 2003 work plan and present the
related 2003 financial plan to Parliament. We will submit to Parliament reports on budget
execution and other reports for the six-month period ending June 30, 2002. It will take
some time before the Chamber is fully functioning, but we plan to audit at least one
ministry and one state owned enterprise in 2002.
44.   The Government is committed to strengthen further the Chamber of Accounts and
in this regard has approved a tenns of reference for appropriate technical assistance and
are requesting that IDA finance this technical assistance through the proposed IBTA-Il.
A counterpart team has already been established, and we also work closely together with
IDA on the preparation of the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA),
which is expected to be completed in June 2002. The CFAA will lead to a financial
accountability action plan, which we will start implementing in July 2002.
45.   A revised Procurement Law satisfactory to IDA has been enacted and made
effective and implementing mechanisms have been adopted. The legal and institutional
framework for governing public procurement has been finalized and an independent State
Procurement Agency has been created, staffed, and made operational. We have adopted
a standard reporting format to monitor the extent and quality of implementation and
established a baseline to assess progress in implementation.
46.   We have approved TOR for technical assistance to prepare and execute the public
procurement implementation plan which includes: (i) a review of the draft implementing
mechanisms and country specific procurement documents; (ii) preparation of a program
of infolnation dissemination to include the establishment of a website; (iii) preparation
and execution of a comprehensive training and public awareness program and a plan to



Annex I                                                               Page 14 of 24
strengthen the Agency; and (iv) developing and carrying out of procurement audits. This
TA could be supported by IBTA-Il. A counterpart team has already been established.
Country specific procurement document will be adopted in March 2002, and the TA will
help to institute a process of random reviews by an independent procurement auditor of
completed procurements, and conduct pilot audits in 2002. We will at least have audited
2-3 contract procedures at the central level of public authority covered by the new Law,
and we will publish the results of these pilot audits as well as plans for any appropriate
remedial action.
47.   We also work closely with IDA on the preparation of the Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR), which is expected to be completed in June 2002. This will
lead to a CPAR action plan, which we will start implementing in July 2002.
Social Assistance
48.   The current social assistance system is characterized by some fragmentation of
programs and multiple allowances, and frequently low benefit levels spread among a
large number of recipients. During the transition to market economy, the infonnal sector
has expanded, and it has become more difficult to gauge the income of families receiving
assistance, in particular the child allowance. Hitherto, lack of regular and comprehensive
data on living standards has prevented a technical analysis of the targeting efficiency of
social protection programs. However, new data from the reforrmed household survey
system of the State Statistical Commitee (SSC) will pennit regular analysis of social
protection targeting. This analysis is to be complemented with information gathered by
social workers from the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of Population
(MOLSPP) local offices in order to construct a more complete assessment on how to
strengthen targeting. The President of Azerbaijan issued a decree in March 2001 to
improve targeting of social assistance benefits. This background analysis and revision of
programs should serve as the basis for a more comprehensive social assistance reform
strategy that will take into account the complementarities of different social protection
programs.
49.   We are preparing a study assessing the targeting efficiency of social protection
programs using data from the revised household survey system. In this respect we have
prepared an issues paper on a medium-terrn strategy for enhancing targeting of social
assistance and alleviating the impact on the poor of new public utility policies, "Concept
of Social Assistance Reform in the Republic of Azerbaijan - An Issues Paper." The next
step would comprise the Governnent's approval of a medium-tenn strategy for
enhancing the targeting of social assistance programs consistent with a broader social
protection framework and with the reforms of the utilities sector.
50.   As part of our strategy for strengthening the social safety net and simultaneously
developing financial discipline in the energy and water sectors (see below), in 2002 the
Government has abolished discounts and exemptions in the areas of housing and utilities
(electricity, gas, water supply, etc.), transport services, use of telephone lines, and
purchases of phannaceuticals for 11 privileged groups of the population, such as war
veterans, veterans of anned forces, work veterans, military servants, etc., and allocated



Annex I                                                             Page 15 of 24
funds in the 2002 budget for an explicit system of direct cash transfers to the truly
needy. Social policy will also continue to address the special needs of the IDPs with
targeting, to the extent possible, based on vulnerability. The needs of the IDPs would be
considered within the context of the refonn of the social assistance system. As the
situation allows, the Government will support the transition from humanitarian assistance
to self-sustainability for IDPs.
Poverty Monitoring
51.   The SSC has recently revised its methodology for conducting household living
standard surveys to improve estimates of household income and expenditures and other
vital data to deternine the well-being of households. The survey is based on a probability
sample, and is designed to provide data which are representative nationally and which
can also be used to study differences in regional living standards, and among different
groups of the population. 2,000 households are interviewed each quarter, providing an
annual sample of 8,000 households. The SSC has collected data for three quarters of
2001, and is working on improving the quality of the data produced through further
checks on data entry and perfecting the structure of the survey questionnaires. The
quarterly household survey process has now been firmly institutionalized with
appropriate funding from the annual state budget and staffing including the hiring of an
additional 20 survey interviewers.
52.   The analysis of this data has been completed by the SSC with assistance from the
World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, and will serve as the basis for
constructing an updated poverty profile, i.e. an assessment of poverty incidence, its
severity, and the identification of regions and particular types of households (for
example, households headed by unemployed or pensioners, or families with many
children) registering higher rates or more severe poverty. The poverty profile will be
critical information for completing the PRSP. The poverty profile is to be updated
annually in order to monitor closely the impact of economic development and public
policies on the poor.
53.   A related issue has been the definition of an appropriate poverty line for
Azerbaijan. In the past, there has been a tendency to define minimum consumption
baskets that were unattainable by the majority of households. Such poverty lines were
poor indicators for policymakers since they encompassed the majority of the population
and could not help distinguish households that suffer relatively higher poverty, in order to
focus policies on them. Work is now being completed by the SSC, together with the
MOLSPP and the Ministry of Health, to create a new poverty line for the country. The
approach to setting an official absolute poverty line has already been established, and the
Poverty Monitoring Working Group has redesigned the composition of the food basket,
and its cost based on an average calorie consumption of 2097 per day.
Pension Reform
54.   The President approved on July 17, 2001, a comprehensive concept paper and
time schedule for pension reform that addresses both policy and administrative issues



Annex I                                                               Page 16 of 24
affecting the current system. The core objectives of the reform are to enhance the
financial sustainability of the pension scheme, improve contribution incentives inter alia
by establishing closer links between contributions and benefits, enhance the system's
transparency by eliminating discretionary rules, and eliminate existing inequities within
the system by rationalizing early retirement provisions and equalizing the male and
female retirement age. The new system will establish a greater distinction between labor
and social pensions. As of January 2001, the financing of social pensions has already
been ful1y transferred to the state budget. MOLSPP and the State Social Protection Fund
(SSPF) have been charged with implementing the pension reform.
55.   Policy reforms will be complemented by a new administrative structure to
increase collection and coverage, support the revised benefit formula based on workers'
entire contribution history, foster sound management of pension resources by establishing
new financial management systems and provide better service quality and information to
contributors and pensioners. The Government has merged the Social Protection Fund for
the Disabled and the Employment Promotion Fund with the State Social Protection Fund.
56.   The changes will entail the collection and centralized maintenance of individual
records on workers' contributions that will eventually be used to determine pensions.
The agency maintaining individual records will also be responsible for calculating
pensions. The pension concept paper proposes the unification of contribution collection,
maintenance of workers' records, and pension calculation within the existing SSPF.
57.   The reform will entail various legal changes, most importantly, a new Pension
Law, a Law on Individual Records, and a Presidential Decree designating the agency
responsible for individual records and other pension administration functions. The
MOLSPP has submitted a new draft Pension Law to the Cabinet, consistent with the
policy principles outlined in the concept paper. An actuarial model will also be developed
to estimate the financial impact of the proposed changes. The Law on Individual Records
has been enacted.
Elimination of the Quasi-Fiscal Deficit in Utilities Sectors
58.   We recognize that the accumulation of large quasi-fiscal deficits in the utilities
sector is a major challenge that we need to resolve. These quasi-fiscal deficits signal lack
of financial discipline, pose a threat to macroeconomic and fiscal stability, and create
barriers to entry to the private sector. Quasi-fiscal deficits originate from three factors:
(i) non-payments for energy and water consumption; (ii) excessive technical and non-
technical losses, and (iii) opportunity costs resulting from charging below market prices
for fuel and gas supplied by SOCAR.
59.   Accumulation of quasi-fiscal deficits in the energy and water sectors results in a
deterioration of the fiscal position and leads to additional debt. Costs associated with the
accumulated quasi-fiscal deficit, in terms of: (i) foregone export earnings, (ii) foregone
fiscal revenues, and (iii) deteriorating infrastructure, due to under-investment, exceed the
deficit itself. The latter has a particularly devastating effects, because systems break
down, causing significant losses to customers, and also high cost penalties associated



Annex I                                                              Page 17 of 24
with having to completely replace equipment long before the end of its original design
life. This deferral of maintenance also has high productive and social costs as it results in
lower quality of services. For example, among residents of Baku, 87 percent of the
surveyed perceive piped water to be unsafe and 81 percent consider the water shortage
problems severe or very severe. On average, water is available to individual households
of Greater Baku about 22 days per month for four hours per day. The population copes
through various costly strategies that can be as high as 7 percent of income for the
poorest segments of the population.
60.   In order to resolve the quasi-fiscal problem in the electricity, gas, and water
sectors, the Goverranent is developing a comprehensive program in consultation with
IDA and IMF. This program aims at establishing financial discipline in the energy sector
and largely eliminating the quasi-fiscal deficit in the sector within 5 years, and is
attached in the Appendix to this LDP. Besides strengthening financial discipline, we are
embarking on an ambitious utilities restructuring and privatization program as part of our
efforts to eliminate the roots of quasi-fiscal deficits. The aim is to enhance efficiency by
bringing capital needed to maintain service, monitor consumption (meters) and improve
management, and last, but not least, by engaging private operators with incentive to
improve collections.  We have started to formulate an appropriate framework for
regulating these natural monopolies. Furthermore, while eliminating implicit and extra-
budgetary subsidies and introducing explicit budgetary subsidies, we need to put in place
a better and more effective social safety net, as well as reformulating tariff policies. The
regulatory reforms and private sector development sections below, as well as the
strengthening of social assistance targeting described above comprise together with the
actions to eliminate the quasi-fiscal deficit a comprehensive and coordinated program to
resolve the problems of the utilities services.
61.   In order to strengthen financial discipline, key elements of the program include:
(i) enforcement by energy and water companies of the right to shut non-paying customers
and Government monitoring of the disconnection program; (ii) allocation in the 2002
budget of appropriate funds to budget organizations to pay their utility fees, strict
supervision over the payment of these fees, and disconnection of institutions that
consume in excess of the limits; (iii) provision of adequate compensation in the state
budget for utility fee subsidies to poor households; (iv) delivery of services to enterprises
with a history of delinquency only on the basis of advance payments; and (v) bringing
subsidies from SOCAR to the energy and water companies explicitly on the books of the
MOF, and compensated by a corresponding tax credit to SOCAR.
62.   The Government has already established a baseline formula of implicit subsidies
together with procedures to measure and monitor the level of these implicit subsidies. We
have instructed Azerenergy, Azerigaz, and ARWC to produce monthly reports on
collections, cut-offs, largest debtors, and arrears, as well as quarterly reports of budget
organizations that have surpassed their allocated limits, non-revenue technical losses, and
implicit subsidies. This will provide timely data for the Government to take prompt
action in the implementation of the measures established to strengthen the financial
discipline and to reduce the implicit subsidies.



Annex I                                                             Page 18 of 24
63.   The phased program of elimination of the quasi-fiscal deficit in the utility sectors
will have as the 2002 target a reduction of implicit subsidies in the electricity, gas, and
water sectors by at least 30 percent overall from the baseline formula established and at
least by 30 percent in each individual sector, through a combination of better cash
collection, increased tariffs and/or efficiency gains. In order to achieve this, it is planned
to increase collections in electricity and gas sectors to 45 percent, while water utility fees
should reach a 60 percent collection rate of billings.
64.   To support and enable the design of a program of reform in the utility and oil
sectors, the Government is keenly aware of the need to have access to appropriate
financial and operational infornation. In this respect, the Government has instructed
SOCAR, Azerenergy, Azerigaz and ARWC to deliver and also share with the IMF and
World Bank: (i) monthly accounts receivable statements arranged by user groups;
(ii) monthly statements of non-technical losses; (iii) monthly statements of historic and
projected cash flows; (iv) annual financial statements prepared in accordance with lAS as
well as an audit opinion thereon from a reputable internationally-recognized auditor
having performed the audit in accordance with ISA; and (iv) a plan to upgrade their
financial management arrangements, including the design and implementation of
appropriate accounting procedures and internal controls, to enable the production of
reliable, relevant, accurate and timely financial and management accounting information.
Additionally, the Government will review the adequacy of electricity, gas and water
tariffs. This review will also take into consideration the social and environmental impact
of changes in tariffs to ensure affordability of basic energy supply to poor households.
65.   The Government has also issued and published a decree that will prohibit the use
of netting operations in transactions to pay energy and water tariffs involving budgetary
institutions and/or state-owned enterprises. The Government is committed to the
elimination of netting operations to pay energy and water tariffs involving budgetary
institutions and/or state-owned enterprises and will provide evidence to IDA of at least a
6-month track record of no netting operations before 2nd tranche release of SAC-II.
Regulatory Reform in the Utilities Sectors
66.   The Govemment has reviewed the recommendations contained in the recent
consultants' report "Electricity and Natural Gas Restructuring and Regulatory Reform"
(May 2001). Based on these recommendations, and within the overall context of the
privatization of the utilities, the Government has issued a policy statement on the future
structure, regulatory framework, and tariff policies for the electricity, gas, and water
sectors. Based on these policy statements, the sector authorities with advisors already
hired will set up an adequate legal and regulatory framework for the sector to protect the
public interest and encourage private investment. The Government's strategy with regards
to regulation will be:
i.   To use competition in lieu of regulation, where ever and whenever possible, to
protect the public interest.



Annex I                                                              Page 19 of 24
ii.  Not to delay privatization transactions, but rather to pursue both transactions and
the development of the legal and regulatory framework in parallel so as to require
the sector authorities to meet the transaction timetables in completing the
development of the legal and regulatory framework.
iii.  As much as possible, mitigate regulatory risks in the early years of long-term
contracts (whether concessions or management contracts) by defining tariff paths -
aiming to full cost recovery levels - and other key issues for a multi-year period,
and monitoring both compliance and social impacts.
iv.  In the longer tenn, to provide for independent regulation of the utility sector, with
possible institutional arrangements to be assessed in the near future (including the
feasibility of multi-sector regulation). Substantially independent regulatory
institutions will be in place and hilly operational by the end of the initial 2-3 years
tariff revision period - so that they can take the lead in reviewing tariffs at that
time, and re-setting them -- but in any case not later than September 2004. In the
interim regulatory functions should be transferred from entities to the appropriate
sector ministry.
v.   To ensure that targeted social protection measures are an integral part of the
program and to monitor their effectiveness and impact.
67.   A decree has been issued to remove regulatory functions from commercial state-
owned enterprises. Those include, for example, transferring regulatory functions to the
Ministry of Fuel and Energy from commercial state-owned companies, SOCAR,
Azerenergy and Azerigaz, and to the Ministry of Transport from comrnercial transport
state-owned companies, such as Azal, Caspian Shipping, Azeravtonagliyyat, Baku Port
and Azerbaijan Railways. The full implementation of this separation will be completed
in 2002.
68.   We have initiated work with advisors in order to complete the regulatory
framework for electricity and gas sectors and on a strategy to adjust utility tariffs towards
full-cost levels and to enforce payments, including phased provisions for protecting the
poor and avoiding unintended negative environmental impacts. During 2002 we will
have detennined appropriate economic prices for electricity, gas, water, wastewater and
solid waste, and will approve and publish a time-bound plan to move tariffs to economic
prices, and implement appropriate country-wide tariff changes if necessary. We have
already established a Tariffs Regulatory Council with participation of relevant
Government institutions.  In order to increase the effectiveness of state regulation of
tariffs and ensure that regulation is performed in the interest of the economic policy of
the state, actions to strengthen the legislative framework will be implemented in 2002-
2003.



Annex I                                                             Page 20 of 24
Financial Sector Development
69.   In 1999, with the assistance of the IMF and the World Bank, the Government and
ANB started implementation of a comprehensive banking sector strategy. This includes
the following main elements: (i) restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks;
(ii) consolidation and rationalization of privately-owned banks; (iii) enhancing the
regulatory, supervision and banking resolution capacity of the ANB; (iv) developing a
legal and regulatory framework supporting banking activities; and (v) developing the
institutional and technical infrastructure to support a sound, efficient and competitive
banking system, including accounting, payments system, and auditing.
70.   During this two-year period, the Government and ANB have achieved substantial
results: (i) the ANB Supervision Department has completed a diagnostic study of all
private banks and the licenses of a substantial number of private banks have been
revoked, reducing the total number of banks to 53; (ii) the banking licenses of Savings
Bank, Prominvest and Agroprom Bank were revoked, BUSbank was created through the
merger of the viable part of these three banks, and a limited banking license was issued;
(iii) a decision has been made by Government to establish a non-bank credit organization
on the basis of Agroprom Bank; (iv) a Memorandum of Understanding, defining the
activities of BUSbank, was prepared in cooperation with IMF and the World Bank and
signed by the Minister of Finance, the ANB and the Management of BUSbank.
BUSbank is currently prohibited from engaging in lending, and may hold currency
position only for sales of cash currency; and (v) the Real Time Gross Settlement system
for large value payrnents was introduced in February 2001.
71.   Building on the above achievements, the Government and the ANB will continue
cooperation with the IMF and the World Bank to further implement banking sector
reform. In particular: (i) IDA technical assistance will be provided to the BUSbank to
assist the development of internal capacity, with the ultimate objective of its
privatization; (ii) the remaining majority of shares of the IBA will be sold. The
Government intends to conclude agreement with an international financial institution for
the purchase of 20 percent and will move aggressively to sell the remaining part (30.2
percent) of the state-held founding capital through cash auctions or international tender to
one or more fit and proper strategic investor(s); (iii) the ANB will continue the
rationalization and consolidation of the banking sector; (iv) IAS compatible National
Accounting Standards for banks are being introduced, together with necessary revisions
of laws and regulations; and (v) a low-value payments system will be developed and
implemented.
72.   The ANB will expedite revision of the legal framework, including the Central
Bank Law, the Law on Banks, the Law on Payments System, the Bankruptcy Law, and
drafts will be submitted to Parliament for approval. The ANB has also undertaken in
consultation with IMF and World Bank staff, a comprehensive review of: (i) factors
inhibiting development and competition in the banking system, (ii) factors that may be
inhibiting the activities of foreign banks in Azerbaijan, and (iii) the regulatory burdens
placed on banks by Govemment agencies other than ANB. A program of refonns has



Annex I                                                             Page 21 of 24
been designed to address any problems identified in this review, in consultation with the
IMF, and the Government has initiated a program to eliminate any undue regulatory
burdens placed on banks by govemment agencies other than the ANB.
73.   In order to increase competition and improve the terms on which credit is
available, the "non-binding" ceiling on the share of foreign banks's capital in the
domestic market has been raised to 50 percent. To signal its intent ANB is soliciting
expressions of interest for foreign banks of good repute to operate in the country as full
service banks, including foreign banks experienced in providing rural credit in
developing countries. As a condition of license, Azeri citizens should be allowed to buy
shares in the local subsidiaries.
Private Sector Development
74.   The Government will promote the introduction of IAS in order to provide
investors with proper financial infonrnation. This will also improve the ability of Azeri
companies to raise finance. The Government is drafting a law that will require all joint
stock companies over a threshold level of tumover of and all large utility enterprises to
produce accounts in line with LAS. The Law will be enacted and made effective Jan 1,
2003 with a timetable requiring that annual reports including the accounts be made
publicly available. To further strengthen accounting and audit practices we are working
with IDA on the above mentioned CFAA.
75.   A Presidential Decree, in late 2000, abolishing all internal inspection/control
departments in the Ministries except for the internal audit department in the MOF, has
resulted in a significant reduction of obstacles for private sector development and led to
an improving business environment. During 2002 we will complete a review of the
licensing regime with a view to reducing further the number of licensed activities and
scope of enforcement activities.
76.   In order to identify key barriers to business and to develop baseline indicators to
monitor progress over time, the Government has also together with FIAS commenced a
diagnostic study of the investment climate, complemented by a firm-level survey of
administrative costs conducted by an independent Azeri research company. During the
first half of 2002 we will hold a joint public-private sector workshop to present the results
of the completed diagnostic study and survey results and solicit recommendations for
improving the investnent climate. On this basis we will develop a concrete action plan
and a system to monitor progress over time in the reduction of barriers to investment
through annual finn-level surveys by an independent Azeri research organization
reporting the results publicly to a suitable non-governmental body or forum.
77.   The Government has made substantial progress in the first privatization program
with the privatization of small and medium-sized business and with the privatization of
land and equipment in agriculture. Under the new program, as set out in the Law and
Presidential Decree on the Second Privatization Program, smaller enterprises can be
privatized by order of the Minister of Economic Development and larger enterprises by
order of the President. Around 70 auctions of small and medium-sized enterprises have



Annex I                                                               Page 22 of 24
been held since the start of the second program. The Government is currently preparing
for the President's consideration a list 450 public enterprises in the machinery, oil,
chemical, and food sectors to privatize in the course of the program, and has also
announced a list of enterprises to be privatized during 2001-2003 period.
78.   The Government is committed to a transparent and accelerated process of
privatization according to intemnational best practice, and is receiving assistance from the
World Bank through the First Institution Building and Technical Assistance (IBTA-l)
credit.
79.   The Govenmnent's program for privatization includes the energy, water, telecom,
and transport sectors. Privatization of energy and water supply is now under way. In
telecommunications, the Baku Telephone network, Aztelecom, Baku Telegraph, and
other enterprises have been endorsed for privatization. Within the transport sector the
airlines and affiliated companies are slated for privatization.  We are planning a
privatization and investment promotion conference with announcement of our
privatization program and prioritization of investments in the non-oil sector once the
FIAS study is completed.
80.   Energy. Specifically in the energy sector the Government: (i) has signed a long
term management contract for BAGES with a private investor; (ii) is preparing to hold
tenders for at least three other electricity distribution utilities, for which financial advisors
have been hired; (iii) is committed to a policy of unbundling and privatizing the gas and
electricity sectors along the lines of the energy sector consultant's report mentioned
above; (iv) will issue a decree for the privatization of gas distribution and issue a Request
for Proposal (RFP) for financial, technical and legal advisors by end-March 2002,
supported by IBTA-I; (vi) is considering to privatize at least two gas-industry enterprises,
namely, the Karadag Gas Processing Plant (owned by SOCAR) and the Karadag Gas
Storage Facility (owned by Azerigaz); (vi) will complete a Natural Gas Sector Strategy
(with funding from PPIAF and ESMAP) before June 2002; and (vii) set in place a
monitoring program to assess the social impact of the strategy.
81.   Water. As part of the National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy completed
in 2000, the Government is committed to implementing reform for water supply and
wastewater services in the Apsheron Peninsula, and has initiated integration of the
management and operation of these setvices under ARWC. A larger service area would
attract international operators of greater experience and quality and enhance the
possibility of a successful privatization process. The Government has started to analyze
the basic options to involve the private sector, including long-tenn leases and concession
contracts, and recognizes the need to be responsive to the poor segments of the
population. We have requested the World Bank's assistance to complete the analysis of
options in order to proceed with the privatization process as well as the definition of an
adequate regulatory framework, in close coordination with that for the other utility
sectors. A decree for the privatization of ARWC will be issued by end-March 2002, and
a RFP for financial, technical, and legal advisory services the water transaction at the
same time.



Annex I                                                              Page 23 of 24
82.   Many industrial enterprises are in severe distress and have suffered significant
dis-investment over the past decade. They continue to employ significant numbers of
people - many in areas where alternative employment opportunities are limited - and
continue to remain a significant fiscal drain. The Government is concerned about this
problem and its recent decision to privatize these enterprises reflects its resolve to address
it. However, the employment and associated social impact of privatizing these enterprises
can be a significant obstacle. The Government will thus adopt a comprehensive and
integrated Industrial Privatization and Labor Redeployment program for this group of
enterprises. Funded by IBTA-I, we will issue by end-February 2002 two RFPs for
consultant work in this respect, one to develop a detailed strategy for privatization of
industrial enterprises, including past environmental liability issues, and the second for the
design of a comprehensive labor re-deployment program.
83.   Tax administration. Significant progress has been made in the area of improving
tax administration. A new Tax Code has been adopted, the practice of negotiating tax and
social protection fund payments has been abolished, and the tax administration is
undergoing a comprehensive program to improve its operations with the help of the IMF.
The aim of this program is to: (i) ensure that the no-contract approach is used for all
return filing; (ii) improve the Tax Ministry's organizational structure; (iii) strengthen the
Large Taxpayer Unit, centralize its operations, and clarify the criteria for inclusion of
taxpayers in this unit; (iv) institute a properly designed and funded comprehensive
training program, improve recruitment and testing procedures for new employees, and
provide remuneration levels that allow the recruitment of competent staff.
84.   In order to ensure the use of proper accounting standards the Government will
issue an instruction that the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Taxes is to use IAS
accounts from SOCAR, Azerenergy, Azerigaz and ARWC from 2004 for monitoring and
taxation purposes.
85.   The State Customs Committee (SCC) has signed a contract for technical
assistance with modernization with an international reputable firm and a new
organizational structure has been adopted. We have implemented a new tariff
nomenclature, and are publishing monthly reports on imports and customs revenue, by
tariff band, as well as excise collections by product. A Presidential decree has been
issued reducing the scope and clarifying the procedures for granting exemptions. We
have eliminated all ad hoc tariff exemptions, restructured the taliff schedule maintaining
a 15% maximum tariff rate, and introduced the harmonized system. SCC has also
introduced a code of conduct, and a law on customs brokers has been adopted. Finally,
the first phase of linking customs offices into a wider area network has been completed.
86.   As with the rest of the program, the aim of these measures is to strengthen
governance and increase certainty in order to develop the private sector, and especially in
the non-oil areas.



Annex I                                                           Page 24 of 24
Conclusion
The Government is moving rapidly forward with a wide range of structural reforms
aimed at strengthening governance and removing impediments to non-oil sector
development. These reforns are particularly important in order to create more jobs and
equity in our society. It is a balanced program, on the one hand further removing barriers
to the development of a market economy led by the private sector, and on the other hand
it will strengthen targeting of social assistance to the poor and vulnerable. We appreciate
the World Bank's significant support to our reform program through the proposed SAC-II
and the associated IBTA-II.
Baku February 12, 2002
Artur Rasizade                       Avaz Alekperov
Prime Minister                       Minister of Finance
Farhad Aliyev                        Elman Rustamov
Minister of Economic Development     Govemor of
the National Bank of Azerbaijan



Attachment 1 to Annex I                                                                                                  Page I of 14
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues              Recent Actions                Policy Actions                   Policy Actions              Technical
I          Prior to Board               Prior to Second Tranche         Assistance
1. Improve transparency and accountability in public financial management,
including the establishment of the supreme audit institution.
Need for strengthening  Budget Systems Law      Submit to Parliament a Budget       Cabinet approval of Medium-   IBTA II
legal basis for sound   drafted and submnitted to  Systems Law that, inter alia,    Term Expenditure Framework
budgetary practices and  Bank and Fund for       (i)   covers all state extrabudgetary  for 2003-2005.
procedures and operational  comments.                  funds, including the Oil Fund;
efficiency.                                                                         Cabinet approval of Public
(ii)  provides for complete accounts  Investment Program for 2003-
of extrabudgetary revenues,  2005 consistent with Medium-
expenditures and surplus     Term Expenditure Framework.
balances as per economic and
functional classirication levels;  Cabinet approval of 2003 budget
consistent with Medium-Term
(iii)  ensures the full and        Expenditure Strategy and
transparent reporting to     Framework, and prepared
Parliament of these accounts in  according to key provisions of
the budget process, notably  new Budget Systems Law
through a consolidated      (calendar, comprehensiveness,
government budget statement;  documentation and disclosure),
and                          publication of 2001 budget
execution, and implementation of
(iv)  stipulates that any resources  2002 budget according to new
withdrawn from               Budget Law as applicable.
extrabudgetary funds, other
than for meeting the State Oil  Integration of all remaining state
Fund's own administrative    extrabudgetary resources into
expenses, should be channeled  the state budget with the
through the state treasury.  exception of the Oil Fund.
Eliminate or integrate 9 large     MoF to approve new Budget
extrabudgetary funds/operations into  Classification system according to
the state budget.                  GFSM.
Approval of TOR for technical assistance
with drafting of new Budget Systems
rules and regulations, as well as with
capacity building in MOF.



Attachment 1 to Annex I                                                                                                     Page 2 of 14
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues               Recent Actions                 Policy Actions                    Policy Actions              Technical
Prior to Board               Prior to Second Tranche          Assistance
I. Improve transparency and accountability in public financial management,
including the establishment of the supreme audit institution.
(cont.)
Establish a comprehensive  New draft Public       Enact and make effective new Public  Provide evidence of satisfactory  IBTA-II
public procurement system  Procurement Law        Procurement Law.                    implementation of public
that is suitable for a  acceptable to IDA has been                                    procurement implementation
market economy and      submitted to Parliament.  Adopt Implementing Mechanisms.      plan pursuant to the base line.
introduces competition
into the system.                                  Adopt standard reporting format to  Adopt country specific
monitor extent and quality of       procurement documents.[March,
implementation. Establish base line to  20021
assess progress in implementation.
Execute the Public Procurement
Approval of TOR for technical assistance  implementation plan at central
to prepare and execute a public      govemment level.
procurement implementation plan to
include: a review of the draft      Institute a process of random
implementing mechanisms and country  reviews by independent
specific procurement documents;     procurement auditor of
preparation of a program of information  completed procurements, and
dissemination to include the         conduct pilot audits in 2002.
establishment of a website; preparation  Publish pilot results as well as
and execution of a comprehensive    plans for any appropriate
training and public awareness program  remedial action.
and a plan to strengthen the SPA;
developing and carrying out of      Approve CPAR action plan and
procurement audits.                 identify funding to implement the
action plan.
Approve CPAR preparation action      [August, 2002]
plan as presented in Initiating Concept
Memorandum (ICM), induding
nomination of a Government
counterpart team for CPAPR



Attachment 1 to Annex I                                                                                                     Pg      f1
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix                                        Page 3 of 14
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues               Recent Actions            Recommended Policy Action        Recommended Policy Action          Technical
I |        Prior to Board               prior to Second Tranche          Assistance
I. Improve transparency and accountability in public financial management,
including the establishment of the supreme audit institution.
(cont.)
There is no functioning  The Chairman of the new   Enact amendments to Law on         In respect of the Chamber of    IBTA 11
supreme audit          Chamber of Accounts has been  Chamber of Accounts establishing the  Accounts: (i) appoint the
institution.          appointed.                   Chamber as the supreme audit       Chamber's five Auditors; (ii)
institution of the Republic and submit  develop a revised organizational
Draft Charter and amendments  Charter to Parliament.            structure; (iii) formulate staff
to the Law prepared and                                         grades with appropriate job
submitted to Bank and Fund for  Allocate adequate resources in 2002  descriptions and recruitment
comments.                   state budget for full staffing and proper  criteria; (iv) equip the Chamber
functioning of the Chamber          with appropriate numbers and
types of computers and software;
Agree upon a time-bound action plan to  and (v) prepare the Chamber's
strengthen the Chamber of Accounts.  2003 work plan and present
related 2003 financial plan to
Approval of TOR for technical       Parliament.
assistance with building the capacity of
the Chamber of Accounts, and        Submit to Parliament, reports on
establishment of Government         budget execution and other reports
counterpart team for TA.            for the six month period ending
June 30, 2002.
Approve CFAA preparation action plan
as presented in Concept Paper,      Provide evidence of satisfactory
including establishment of Government  implementation of public
working group for CFAA.             financial accountability action
plan. [benchmarks to be
determined with assistance of
CFAA].



Attachment 1 to Annex I                                                                                                       Page 4 of 14
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues                Recent Actions          Recommended Policy Action         Recommended Policy Action           Technical
Prior to Board          I    prior to Second Tranche           Assistance
II. Strengthen the tracking of poverty-reducing expenditures, and monitoring of expenditure impact on poverty
Inadequate efficiency of  Two household surveys have  Institutionalize the household  Prepare a poverty profile based on  ADB,
scarce public resources  been completed. Quality of  survey, including adequate budget  revised household survey, and define  UNICEF,
and excessive program  sampling method and analysis  allocation in draft 2002 budget.  a new poverty line for Azerbaijan.  IDA.
fragmentation, inclusion  is improving.
and exclusion errors                               Prepare an Issues Paper on a medium-  Conduct benchmark incidence
result in inadequate                               term strategy for enhancing targeting  analysis of public expenditures for
protection of the poor.                            of social assistance and alleviating  health, education and social
the impact on the poor of new public  assistance.
Limited monitoring of                              utility policies.
incidence of poverty                                                                 Adopt a medium-term strategy for
and impact of public                               Complete 3d quarter household     enhancing targeting of social
policies on poverty.                               survey.                           assistance and alleviating the
Established Social Fund for                                   impact on the poor of new public
Azerbaijan still has a  Development of IDPs                                          utility policies.                 Social Fund for
high level of                                      Approval and publication of 2002                                    Development of IDPs
unemployment and       The government issued recently  public expenditure program for  Provide evidence of satisfactory  project.
poverty. These        two decrees reflecting an    IDPs.                             implementation of 2002 expenditure
problems are especially  increased commitment to                                     program for IDPs and prepare IDP
acute for IDPs (and    permanent resettlement of                                     plan for 2003 budget.
refugees). Education   refugees and IDPs in targeted
services for the poor  areas.                                                        Allocate funds in education budget
need substantial                                                                     for 2003 for the provision of free
improvement.           An IDA education LIL was                                      basic textbooks for all public school
signed in July 2001.                                          students in grades 1-5, and for IDP  Education LIL.
and refugee students grades 1- 1.



Attachment i to Annex I                                                                                                  Pg      f1
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix                                      Page 5 of 14
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues             Recent Actions          Recommended Policy Action         Recommended Policy Action          Technical
I                       lT          Prior to Board          |     prior to Second Tranche         Assistance
III. Improve strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-term public expenditure and investment
programs.
Establish legal and   Presidential decree    Adopt a Governance and Management    Publish 2001 audited accounts of
institutional framework  establishes the     Framework. for the Oil Fund, that    the Oil Fund.
for                   Regulations on the State  provides for professional fund
1. preparation,       Oil Fund, Dec 2000     management under appropriate         Publish quarterly financial and
execution, audit and  Rules on the preparation  oversight, includes prudential    budget execution statements
reporting of the annual  and execution of the  investment rules and guidelines for  satisfactory to IDA, i.e. with
oil fund budget       annual program of       desired risk-return combinations,   expenditures (other than
2. execution of the oil  revenues and expenditures  requires publication of the audited  administrative expenses) in
fund                  for the State Oil Fund,  annual accounts, and publish the 2002  accordance with the Consolidated
based on the following  December 2000.        Oil Fund budget.                    Budget, and financial flows in
principles:                                                                       accordance with Governance and
- projects to financed by  Issued Presidential decree  Appoint Oil Fund Supervisory Board  Management Framework.
the oil fund must be  on the operations of the  with appropriate representation of
included in the PIP or  State Oil Fund, with Rules  Parliament nominated by Parliament  Satisfactory review of governance
Medium-Term           on storage, placement and  itself and of civil society.     arrangements of Oil Fund.
Expenditure Program   management of the State  Proposed Oil Fund expenditures are
- the president will  Oil Fund's foreign     subject to review and endorsement of
approve a consolidated  currency resources.  the Supervisory Board.
government budget
-parliament will be                           Adopt and make public a medium-term
provided full                                 public expenditure strategy, covering
information on the                            consolidated public expenditures and
consolidated budget                          setting out clearly the development
- full disclosure of Oil                     objectives, principles, sectoral and
Fund's investments on a                       program priorities, and major planned
regular basis and                             expenditure reforms, including
quarterly publication of                      articulation of the role of the Oil Fund
consolidated budget -                         in supporting that expenditure strategy,
integration into the                         and consistent with the poverty
budget                                       reduction strategy outlined in the I-
- execution of the Oil                        PRSP and elaborated in the PRSP
Fund's expenditure to                         under preparation. The Government
be done through the                           agrees to formulate annual budgets
treasury subject to                           within the framework set out in the
standard procurement                          medium-term public expenditure
and other rules                              strategy.
Adopt rule that Oil Fund expenditures
(other than administrative expenses)
will be part of the approved and
published Consolidated Budget, MTEF
and/or PIP.



Attachment 1 to Annex I                                                                                                         Page 6 of 14
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues               Recent Actions           Recommended Policy Action          Recommended Policy Action           Technical
Prior to Board                prior to Second Tranche            Assistance
III.  Improve strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-term                 public expenditure and investment
programs.
(cont.)
Budget needs to be linked  Ministry of Finance has  Approval of TOR for technical      Develop Public Investment Appraisal  IBTA 11
to a medium-term         developed a forecasting   assistance with Public Investment   Division (at MED) for technical,
financial framework.     unit and started to prepare  Program, and capacity building in  financial and economic evaluation of  DFID, ADB
medium-term financial and  Public Investment Appraisal Division.  public investment projects.   (particularly, for
A more integrated        macroeconomic framework.                                                                        forecasting and
framework needs to be    .                                                                                               macroeconomic
developed for public                                                                                                     department)
expenditures, as well as
project and program
evaluation capacity.



Attachment I to Annex I                                                                                                       Page 7 of 14
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues             Recent Actions          Recommended Policy Action       Recommended Policy Action prior to        Technical
Prior to Board                     Second Tranche                  Assistance
IV. Introduce transparency and financial discipline in the energy sector, including fiscalization of quasi-fiscal
activities.
Water: In 2000,        Households collection   Establish a preliminary baseline   Reduce implicit subsidies in the     PPIAF/ESMAP work
collection of water    rates by community arc  formula of implicit subsidies in the  electricity, gas, and water sectors by at  on gas and electricity
tariffs in Baku for    published monthly.      energy sector, together with       least 30% overall from the baseline  will include sector
budget organizations                           procedures to measure and monitor  formula established and at least by  financial models that
was 27% and for        Water Law approved in   the level of these implicit subsidies.  30% in each individual sector, through  will include the
industries 53%,        2000 authorizes ARWC to      .          .         .        a combination of better cash collection  capability for GOA
according to ARWC.     shut-off non-paying     Termiate the practice of ordering  and/or tariff adjustments, and/or    to quantify and track
customers.       ~SOCAR to undertake other fiscal    icesdfiiny.the evolution of the
customers.               operations.                       increased efficiency.                 QFD.
Electricity: In 2000,  Govemment has           Approval and publication of a      Provide evidence that budgetary
collection for electricity  eliminated 11 utility  phased program to eliminate the  institutions have been current with  TA component of
for budget organizations  subsidies and replaced 12,  implicit subsidies completely from  utility payments for at least six  Greater Baku Water
was 27.8% and for      and stated that cash    the energy and water sectors within  months.                            Supply Project will
industries 77%,        transfers directed to the  5 years.                                                             continue to support
according to           poor will be used instead.                                                                      financial
Azerenergy.                                    The program will include, but not be                                    management
limited to, the provisions outlined in                                  strengthening of
this column and the second tranche                                      ARWC.
Gas: In 2000, collection                       column of this section:            Issue instruction that Ministry of Finance
for gas supplied for                           The utilities will enforce the right to  and Ministry of Taxes is to use IAS  Additional PPIAF
budget organizations                           shut off any and everybody for non  accounts from SOCAR, Azerenergy,    funding is being
was 23.3% and for                              payment and the Government will    Azerigaz and ARWC from 2004 for      sought to track
industries 57.5%,                              monitor the actual shut-offs and track  monitoring and taxation purposes.  ARWC's financial
according to Azerigaz.                         the percentage (number of) shut-offs                                    performance.
on a quarterly basis.              Production by SOCAR, Azerenergy,
Azerigaz and ARWC of: (i) monthly
Instruct SOCAR, Azerenergy,        financial and operational management
Azerigaz and ARWC to deliver: (i)  information to monitor implicit
monthly financial and operational  subsidies; (ii) annual audited financial
management information to monitor  statements; and (iii) a costed, time-
implicit subsidies; (ii) annual    bound action plan to upgrade their
audited financial statements; and  financial management arrangements.
(iii) a plan to upgrade their financial
management arrangements.



Attachment 1 to Annex I                                                                                                           Page 8 of 14
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix
February 13,2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues              Recent Actions          Recommended PolicyAction         Recommended Policy Action prior to         Technical
I |        Prior to Board                      Second Tranche                   Assistance
IV. Introduce transparency and financial discipline in the utilities sector, including fiscalization of quasi-fiscal
activities.
(cont.)
There is a need to                              Increase the budget provision for
strengthen the financial                        utility (electricity, gas and water)
discipline of SOCAR,                            consumption by budgetary
Azerenergy, Azerigaz,,                           organizations so that all utility costs
ARWC, and other utility                         can be paid. The Govemment will
companies in the                                 inform all budgetary organizations that
electricity, gas, and                            they are not to exceed the budgeted
water sectors.                                  levels of utility consumption.
The 2002 budget to provide
contingency funds to cover
emergencies for providers of essential
public services.
Instruct managers of all state-owned
utilities that they should cut off
supplies to budgetary organizations
attempting to consume more than the
budgeted limit. Utility companies will
provide timely information to the MOF
on any excess consumption, and MOF
will make measures to pay for this
consumption, within the overall budget
deficit ceiling.
Issue instructions to utility companies
to deliver services to enterprises with a
history of delinquency only on the
basis of advance payments.



Attachment 1 to Annex I                                                                                                         Pg      f1
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix                                           Page 9 of 14
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues              Recent Actions          Recommended Policy Action       Recommended Policy Action prior to        Technical
Prior to Board                      Second Tranche                  Assistance
IV. Introduce transparency and financial discipline in the utilities sector, including fiscalization of quasi-fiscal
activities.
(cont.)
Water: Netting                                  Issue and publish decree limiting the  Establish track record of at least 6
operations in Baku                              use of netting operations in       months compliance with Decree
amounted to 20% of                              transactions to pay energy and     prohibiting the use of netting operations
revenue collected                               water tariffs involving budgetary  in transactions to pay energy and water
institutions and/or state-owned    tariffs involving budgetary institutions
enterprises.                       and/or state-owned enterprises.



Attachment I to Annex X                                                                                                         ae1If1
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix                                          Page 10 of 14
February 13,2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues              Recent Actions             Recommended Policy Action            Recommended Policy Action         Technical
Prior to Board                  prior to Second Tranche          Assistance
V. Reduce conflicts of interest and corruption in the business environment, including enforcement of regulations,
separation of regulatory and commercial functions, and tax and customs
Regulatory functions are  Water Law approved in  Issue and publish Policy Statements on  Approval of draft regulations   PPIAF/ESMAP
currently performed by  2000 - may need review  reform, restructuring and private sector  for electricity, gas, and water  restructuring analysis
commercial companies,  in coordination with     participation in electricity and gas sectors.  sectors.                  and regulatory
resulting in conflict of  regulatory reform of the           .                                                           framework for
interest.              sector.                  Issue and publsh decree that transfers   Complete transfer of policy and  electricity and natural
regulatory functions in the energy sector  regulatory functions related to the  gas. Grant financing
Phase I Energy Sector    away from commercial operabons, to        energy sector from commercial  sought to provide TA
Report completed.        appropriate government institutions (e.g.  operations to Ministry or     assistance to water
joint participation of Ministry of Energy,  regulatory agency.           sector.
Ministry of Fuel and   MoF and MED within the frame of their
Energy established.      functions) or independent regulatory      Adopt decision to establish an
agencies.                                 independent regulatory agency
Costly tariff subsidies                         Initiate work with advisors in order to  (covering both rural and urban
and lax payment                                 complete regulatory framework for electricity  levels of such agency presence).
policies, providing                             and gas sectors.
inefficient protection for
poor families.                                  Initiate work with advisors on a Govemment
strategy to adjust utility tariffs towards full-  Determine appropriate
cost levels and to enforce payments, including  economic prices for electricity,
phased provisions for protecting the poor.  gas, water, wastewater and solid
waste, approve and publish a
Establish Tariffs Regulatory Council with  time-bound plan to move tariffs
participation of relevant Govemment       to economic prices, and
institutions.                             implement appropriate
country-wide tariff changes for
2002.



Attachment 1 to Annex IPae1of4
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix                                          Page 11 of 14
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues              Recent Actions             Recommended Policy Action           Recommended Policy Action          Technical
Prior to Board                   nrior to Second Tranche         Assistance
V. Reduce conflicts of interest and corruption in the business environment, including enforcement of regulations,
separation of regulatory and commercial functions, and tax and customs
(cont.)
Substantial foreign    Legal basis for Market   Commence diagnostic study of the          Hold a joint public-private sector  FIAS
investment in oil since  economy established    investment climate, complemented by a     workshop to present the results of
1995, has restored    through crinminal, civil  firm-level survey of administrative costs  the completed diagnostic study  IBTA-II
economic growth and    and tax codes.           conducted by an independent Azeri         and survey results and solicit
made Azerbaijan the                             research company, to identify key barriers  recommendations for improving  Swiss TF
largest recipient of FDI  More objective tax regime  to business and to develop baseline  the investment climate.
per capita in the FSU.  with lower burdens.     indicators to monitor progress over time.
However, most of this                                                                     Develop a concrete action plan
investment has been oil  Abolished internal                                               based upon recomendations
related and has made   inspection and control                                             contained in the diagnostic study
limited impact on      departments.                                                       and solicited from the workshop.
industry or agriculture
which is the heart of the  Liberalized trade and                                          Develop a system to monitor
country's non oil      customs tariffs.                                                   progress over time in the
economy.                                                                                  reduction of barriers to
Addressed corporate                                               investment through annual
Governance issues e.g.                                             firm-level surveys by an
IAS.                                                              independent Azeri research
organization reporting the
results publicly to a suitable
non-governmental body [tbd].
Complete a review of the
licensing regime with a view to
reducing the number of licensed
activities and scope of
enforcement activities.
Conduct privatization and
investment promotion conference
with announcement of
privatization program and
prioritization of investments in
non-oil sector.



Attachment 1 to Annex I                                                                                                          Page 12 of 14
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix
February 13,2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues              Recent Actions             Recommended Policy Action            Recommended Policy Action           Technical
I                        I              Prior to Board              I   prior to Second Tranche          Assistance
V. Reduce conflicts of interest and corruption in the business environment, including enforcement of regulations,
separation of regulatory and commercial functions, and tax and customs
(cont.)
Improve efficiency and  New Tax Code designed   Permanently abolish the practice of setting  Provide evidence that SOCAR   IMF
yield of tax code, and  in cooperation with the  targets for tax and social protection fund  [and 3 other large SOEs tbd] are
address transparency   IMF took effect January 1,  payments by large state-owned enterprise.  being assessed tax liabilities in
and accountability     2001.                                                               2002 that comply fully with the
issues in the tax                                (i) seek to ensure that the no-contract approach  tax laws.
administration.        The Ministry of Taxes has  is used for all return filing; (ii) improve the
embarked on a            Tax Ministry's organizational structure; (iii)
comprehensive program to  strengthen the Large Taxpayer Unit, centralize
improve its operations.  its operations, and clarify the criteria for
inclusion of taxpayers in this unit; (iv)
institute a properly designed and funded
Strengthen transparency                         comprehensive training program, improve
and accountability in the                       recruitment and testing procedures for new
Customs administration                           employees, and provide remuneration levels
that allow the recruitment of competent staff.
There is a need to      Eliminated all ad hoc tariff  Adoption of a new tariff nomenclature.  Satisfactory progress with   IMF
strengthen transparency  exemptions, restructured                                          Customs administration
and accountability in the  the tariff schedule  Presidential decree reducing the scope and  modernization, according to IMF
Customs administration  maintaining a 15%        clarifying the procedures for granting    PRGF program.
maximum tariff rate, and  exemptions.
introduced the harmonized
system.                  Adoption of a new organizational structure for
the State Customs Committee (SCC).
Signed long-term contract
for technical assistance  Introduction of a code of conduct.
with customs
administration           Adoption of a law on customs brokers.
modernization with
international reputable  Completion of first phase to link customs
firm.                    offices into a wider area network
preparation of a tender for an external
Publishing monthly       evaluation of the SCC.
reports on imports and
customs revenue, by tariff
band, as well as excise
collections by product.



Attachment 1 to Annex IPae1of4
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix                                           Page 13 of 14
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues              Recent Actions             Recommended Policy Action            Recommended Policy Action           Technical
Prior to Board                  prior to Second Tranche           Assistance
VI. Improve transparency, financial discipline and competition in the banking sector
Banking sector is weak,  Strengthened Supervision,  Lift the "non-binding" ceiling on the share  Sell 20 percent of Government's
with chronic liquidity  raised capital adequacy  of foreign banks's capital in the domestic  shares in the IBA (the largest state  Financial Sector TA
problems, portfolio    requirements, improved    market to 50%.                            bank) to one of the highly rated  Credit
mismatches and a large  prudential norms, and                                              international finance/credit
volume of bad debts    licensing rules for credit  Invite expressions of interest for foreign banks  organizations and offer for sale
stemming from state    cooperatives.            to be licensed to take deposits and provide  the remaining part (30.2 percent)
interference and lack of                         credit and other full-scale banking services in  of the state-held founding capital
competition. State     Revoked banking licenses  Azerbaijan.                               through cash auctions or
Banks dominate the     of Savings Bank,                                                    international tender to one or
system and are plagued  Prominvest and Agroprom                                            more fit and proper strategic
with problems of       Bank-three of the four                                              investor(s).
collections, losses and  largest state banks.
administrative and
management             Completed diagnostic
weaknesses.            study of all pivate banks
Government is          and revoked licenses of
implementing           banks not meeting
restructuring and      requirements, reducing the
privatization of major  number from 215 to 59.
banks and has tightened
considerably the legal
and regulatory
framework, including
enforcement.



Attachment 1 to Annex I                                                                                                        Page 14 of 14
Azerbaijan: SAC II Policy Framework Matrix
February 13, 2002
(Core Conditions in Bold)
Issues              Recent Actions             Recommended Policy Action            Recommended Policy Action        Technical
Prior to Board                  prior to Second Tranche         Assistance
VII. Improve the privatization process.
The disinvestments     Awarded 25 year private  Issue decrees for the privatization of at least  Complete Information
related to the quasi   sector management       three electricity distribution companies   Memorandum and Transaction
fiscal deficits and the  contract for the Baku  covering all of the country outside Greater  Documents.
resulting deterioration in  electric distribution  Baku (except Nakichevan Republic) and hire
the infrastructure and  network (BAGES)         Financial Advisors.                       Adopt a privatization transaction
the accompanying                                                                         timetable.
inefficiencies and
breakdown of service,
has been causing
significant losses to  The Govemment is         Cabinet approval of draft decree for      Issue the RFP for the financial  IBTA-I, IBTA-II
consumers at a high    actively pursuing options  privatization or management contract for gas  technical and legal advisors for
productive and social  for private participation in  distribution.                        preparation of the management
cost.                  gas distribution, and has                                          arrangements for gas distribution.
issued invitation for
A viable utilities sector  expression of interest of                                      Complete Information
with reliable supply of  financial advisor.                                               Memorandum and Transaction
electricity, gas, water,                                                                  Documents, and adopt a
telecommunications                                                                        transaction timetable for gas
etc., at prices that allow                                                                distribution.
for continuous         The Govemment is         Cabinet approval of draft decree for      Issue the RFP for the financial  IBTA-I, IBTA-II
investment and         actively pursuing options  privatization or management contract for  technical and legal advisors for
upgrading of these     for private participation in  water distribution                   preparation of the management
services as well as    gas distribution, and has                                          arrangements for ARWC.
technology transfer and  issued invitation for
investment on a        expression of interest of                                          Complete Information
significant scale is   financial advisor.                                                 Memorandum and Transaction
needed in order to                                                                        Documents, and adopt a
revitalize the non-oil                                                                   transaction timetable for ARWC.
sectors of the economy.                                                                               . .



Attachment 2 to Annex I                                                     Page 1 of 6
Government Program on
Strengthening Financial Discipline in the Energy Sector
Action Plan submitted to the President of Azerbaijan
Action                  Objective        Implementing          Timing
agency
Budgetary measures
I    Provide in the state budget the  Elimination of    Ministry of        Starting from 2003
subsidies related with purchase of  implicit subsidies,  Economic
fuel for Azerenergy and Azerigas  prevention of    Development,
accrual of arrears  Ministry of
Finance,
Ministry of Fuel
and Energy
2    Identify limits on utility       Ensure that budget  Ministry of      Starting from
consumption for budget-financed  organizations pay  Economic          2002, on the
organizations, and disconnection of  for utility services  Development,  regular basis
organizations that use the services                Ministry of
in excess of the limits                            Finance,
Ministry of Fuel
and Energy, utility
companies
3    Application of a card system in  Prevent cases of  Ministry of        Starting from 2003
payments for utility services    abuse, and ensure  Economic
full payments for  Development,
utility services   Ministry of
Finance, National
Bank of
Azerbaijan
4    Provision of compensations in the  Prevent cases of  Ministry of      Starting from
state budget to the citizens who are  abuse, and ensure  Economic     2002, on the
eligible for discounts on utility  full payments for  Development,    regular basis
services                         utility services  Ministry of
Finance, Ministry
of Labor and
Social Protection



Attachment 2 to Annex I                                                    Page 2 of 6
Improving of rmancial indicators at Azerenergy and Azerigas
5    Implementation of measures to   Ensure that full   Utility companies  Regularly
increase collections            payments are maid
6    Provision of stronger           Ensure that full   Ministry of Justice  2002
administrative measures in the  payments are maid
legislation against the cases of
evasion from payments
7    Reduction of fuel consumption and  Ensure economic  Ministry of Fuel  Starting from
technical losses and switch of  efficiency of      and Energy        2002, on the
thermal power plants to gas, with  electricity                       regular basis
the purpose to increase efficiency  production
of electricity production
8    Restructuring and privatization  Increase the      Ministry of       2001-2002
(concession) of utility companies  quality and     Economic
economic          Development
efficiency of utility
companies
9    Restructuring of Azerenergy and  Increase the      Cabinet of        2002-2003
Azerigas                        efficiency of      Ministers, Ministry
production         of Fuel and
Energy, Ministry
of Economic
Development
Improving of the structure of the State Oil Company
10   Restructuring of the State Oil  Increase the      Cabinet of         2002-2003
Company                         operational        Ministers, Ministry
efficiency of the  of Fuel and
State Oil Company  Energy, Ministry
of Economic
Development



Attachment 2 to Annex I                                                   Page 3 of 6
Prices and tariffs regulation
11   Creation of Tariff Board        Analysis and      Ministry of        2002
prompt regulation  Economic
of prices and tariffs  Development,
Ministry of
Finance, Ministry
of Fuel and
Energy, State
Customs
Committee and
other relevant
bodies
Other organizational measures
12   Accurate record-keeping of      Ensure the        State Customs      Starting from
imported/exported electricity and  supervision over  Committee,      2002, on the
gas                             the use of         Ministry of Fuel  regular basis
electricity and gas  and Energy
13   Restructuring of large electricity-  Ensure that  Ministry of        Starting from
consuming enterprises,          electricity is used  Economic        2002, on the
improvement of management and   in the saving      Development       regular basis
implementation of other measures  regime
14   Azerenergy and Azerigas to submit  Strengthen     Ministry of        Starting from
monthly reports by consumer     financial discipline  Economic       2002, on the
groups regarding the structure of  at Azerenergy and  Development,   regular basis
accounts receivable, the fuel   Azerigas           Ministry of
consumption, as well as the losses                 Finance, Ministry
and financial indicators.                          of Fuel and
Assignment of representatives from                 Energy, Ministry
appropriate organizations to                       of Taxes
Azerenergy and Azerigas in order
for them to supervise the cash flow
at those companies.
15  Implementation of investment     Increase          Ministry of        Regularly
projects that are related with use of  production of  Economic
alternative sources of energy   electricity        Development,
Ministry of Fuel
and Energy



Attachment 2 to Annex I                                                    Page 4 of 6
16  Improving of administrative      Increase of       Ministry of        Regularly
structure at large taxpayers    consumption        Economic
(SOCAR, Azerenergy, Azerigas,   efficiency,        Development,
ARWC, State Railway, Caspian    fulfillment of     Ministry of Fuel
Shipping Company) and state     commitments to     and Energy,
companies, privatization of     the state budget   Ministry of
subsidiary servicing units,                        Finance, State
increasing the profitability of                    Procurement
enterprises, and taking full control               Agency
over their procurement operations,
with the purpose to reduce
production costs of large taxpayers
and state companies and to ensure
timely payment of taxes. Ensuring
that these operations are
implemented in accordance with
the legislation on tenders.
17   Conducting of international-    Clarify the       Ministry of        Starting from 2002
standard audit, with the purpose to  financial indicators  Economic
identify mutual arrears between the  and the amount of  Development,
State Oil Company, Azerenergy   arrears, ensure    Ministry of
and Azerigas and other large    transparency in    Finance, Ministry
taxpayers, as well as their budget  these processes  of Fuel and Energy
arrears, and to carry out
comprehensive analysis of other
financial indicators.
18   Construction of power plants    Increase the       Ministry of       Regularly
production of     Economic
electricity       Development,
Ministry of Fuel
and Energy



Attachment 2 to Annex I                                                   Page 5 of 6
Government Program on
Strengthening Financial Discipline in Water Sector
Action Plan submitted to the President of Azerbaijan
J2                  Actions                     Implementers      Implementing period
I     Prepare a restructuring plan for a water  Ministry for Economic  Since 2002
supply sector                         Development      and
Absheron Water Joint
Stock Company
2     Involve a reputable advisory firm     Ministry for Economic  Since 2002
Development, advisory
firms, relevant central
and local bodies of
executive authority
3     Create an open joint stock company on the  Ministry for Economic  Since 2002
bases of enterprises, departments and  Development, advisory
organizations to be established in the  firms
framework of the restructuring plan
4     Improve  a legal framework, prepare   Ministry for Economic  2001-2003
regulations and approve them with regard  Development, Ministry
to sector regulation                   of  Justice,  relevant
central  bodies   of
_____                                        executive authority
5     Define and bring a tariff methodology in  Ministry for Economic  Since 2002
conformity with international norms and  Development, Ministry
standards taking into account the social of Finance, Ministry of
status of the population              Justice, relevant central
bodies  of  executive
authority
6     Introduce a card system  into a system  Ministry for Economic  Since 2003 regularly
payments for municipal services        Development, Ministry
of Finance, National
Bank
7     Provide allowances from the state budget Ministry for Economic  Since 2002 regularly
to those municipal service users who have  Development, Ministry
a right for privileges                of Finance, Ministry of
Labour   and   Social
Security of Population
8     Undertake actions to increase a collection  Absheron Water Joint Regularly
rate                                   Stock Company
9     Define limits for water supply of budget-  Ministry for Economic  Since 2002 regularly
financed organizations                 Development, Ministry
of Finance, Absheron
Water   Joint  Stock
Company
10   Install water meters to improve a quality of Absheron Water Joint Since 2002
municipality services to consumers     Stock Company
11    Select a privatization strategy (outright sale  Ministry for Economic  2002
of assets, a partial privatization with  Development, advisory
limited part still owned by the state, a long-  firms
term    privatization,  a   short-term
privatization and etc.) for a newly
established joint stock company in the
framework of a restructuring plan



Attachment 2 to Annex I                                                  Page 6 of 6
12    Prepare a draft contract and other draft Ministry for Economic  2002-2003
documents  such  as   an  information  Development, advisory
memorandum, tender documents, bid firms, relevant central
evaluation criteria, a management right for bodies  of  executive
the purpose of conducting an international authority
tendering process to transfer a joint stock
company into long-term management
13   Identify a list of well-known reputable  Ministry for Economic  2003
operators specializing in this particular Development, advisory
field and send them requests for expression  firms
of interests
14    Tender   announcement   and   public  Ministry for Economic  2003
awareness campaign                    Development,   State
Television and Radio
Company, State Mass
Media, relevant central
and local bodies of
_ _____________________________________  executive  authority
15    Negotiations with preferred bidders and  Ministry for Economic  2003
award of a concession agreement      Development, relevant
central  bodies   of
executive authority
16    Undertake actions in the field of bringing  Ministry for Economic  2002-2003
the quality of drinking water with respect Development, Ministry
to sanitary and hygiene requirements to  of Health
conformity with international standards
and create consumer unions for this
purpose
17    Coordinate activities of operators who  Ministry for Economic  2004-2005
have taken for management the joint stock  Development
companies in this sector
18    undertake  actions  to  protect  the  Ministry for Economic  2004-2005
environment from dirty and waste waters  Development, Ministry
for   Ecology    and
Natural Resources
19   Identify and apply the government support Ministry for Economic  2003-2005
possibilities with respect to monitoring and  Development, relevant
prevention of negative trends serving to the  central and local bodies
identification of potential for the sector to  of executive authority
increase its efficiency
20    Apply a practice of cutting off the non-  Absheron Water Joint Since 2002
payers of water bills                 Stock Company
21    Create a strict mechanism to supervise the  Absheron Water Joint 2002
budget  and  industrial  organizations' Stock    Company,
receivables to be serviced            Ministry of Finance
22   Improve collection rules              Absheron Water Joint 2002
Stock      Company,
National Bank
23    Bring an accounting system and financial Absheron Water Joint 2002
statements to conformity with international Stock  Company,
standards                             Ministry of Finance
24    Prevent energy losses in water treatment, Absheron Water Joint Since 2002
_    , pumping and sewage stations          Stock Company        II



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
AZERBAIJAN
Statement of Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Accounts List as of December 31, 2001
18 Records Retrieved -- Sorted by Financier, Loan Num
Loan/Credit Financier Project ID Description            CCY of   Amount in millions (USD)
Commit   Pnincipal Undisb.  Disbursed Approval Date    Closing Date
27080    IDA        P008282 PETROLEUM TA                XDR      20.8     0.0      9.6      20-APR-1995        30-NOV-2000
27510    IDA        P008288 BAKU WS                     XDR      61.0     4.6      47.0     28-JUN-1995        31-DEC-2002
27690    IDA        P008283 IBTA                        XDR      18.0     2.1      13.2     25-JUL-1995        30-SEP-2002
27730    IDA        P008289 REHABILITATION              XDR      65.0     0.0      61.4     22-AUG-1995        31-DEC-1996
29230    IDA        P008287 GAS REHAB                   XDR      20.2     6.8      11.3      19-SEP-1996       31-MAR-2002
29330    IDA        P040544 FARM PRIV                  XDR       14.7     1.5      12.0      16-JAN-1997       30-JUN-2003
29780    IDA        P041261 SAC                         XDR      70.0     0.0      70.7      24-JUL-1997       30-JUN-1999
29781    IDA        P041261 SAC                         XDR      7.0      0.0      6.7      31-MAR-1999        30-APR-1999
31070    IDA        P055155 URGENV INVST -AZ            XDR      20.0     16.9     1.9       30-JUN-1998       31-DEC-2003
31090    IDA        P035770 PILOT RECON                 XDR      20.0     10.4     8.9       02-JUL-1998       31-MAR-2003
31091    IDA        P0)65504 RECNSTR PILOT (IDP)        XDR      10.0     8.8      0.5      08-JUN-1999        31-MAR-2003
32070    IDA        P058969 CULT HERITAGE               XDR      7.5      6.4      0.6       13-MAY-1999       31-DEC-2004
32200    IDA       P057959 EDUC REF                     XDR      5.0      2.5      2.2       24-MAY-1999       31-DEC-2002
32360    IDA        P035813 AGRIC DEVT&CREDIT-AZ        XDR      30.0     22.3     5.7      08-JUN-1999        31-MAR-2004
33900    IDA       P008284 IRRIG/DRAINAGEREHAB-AZXDR             42.0     34.3     5.5      22-JUN-2000        31-MAY-2006
35170    IDA        P040716 HIGHWAY                     XDR      40.0     39.5     0.0       12-JUN-2001       30-JUN-2005
35180    IDA        P070973 FIN SCT TA                  XDR      5.4      5.4      0.0       12-JUN-2001       28-FEB-2006
35230    IDA        P069293 HEALTH REF LIL              XDR      5.0      4.9      0.1       12-JUN-2001       31 -DEC-2004



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Azerbaijan
Azerbaijan
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 10/31/2001
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                  Disbursed
FY Approval Company          Loan  Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1999 Amoco Caspian    28.64     0    0 4.82 28.64      0     0 4.82
1998Azerb. JV Bank       0      1    0     0     0      1    0     0
1997/98     Baku Coca Cola     4.08     0    0     0   4.08     0    0     0
1999Baku Hotel        14.58     0    0     0  14.58     0    0     0
1999Early Oil Fin     13.47     0    0 2.27   13.47    0     0  2.27
1999Lukoil Overseas   16.84     0    0 2.84   16.84    0     0  2.84
1998SEF Azerigaz       0.08     0    0     0   0.08    0     0     0
1998 SEF Rabitabank    0.08     0    0     0   0.08    0     0     0
1999Turkish Petrol    11.37     0    0   1.91  11.37   0     0  1.91
1999Unocal Chirag     16.93     0    0  2.85  16.93    0     0  2.85
Total Portfolio:      106.07    1     0 14.69 106.07    1     0 14.69
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
2001 Azer JV Increase     0    60    0     0
Total Pending Commitment:      0     60    0     0



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
Azerbaijan - Key Economic Indicators
Aciual             Eitimate         Projected
lndicator            19)7    149x    1999   20)00   200!    2 002    2003     20()4
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta              100     100    100     100      100    100       100      100
Agriculture                         22      19      19     19       20      20       20       20
Industry                            40      36      33     38       38      39       40       41
Services                            38      45      48     43       42      41       40       39
Total Consumption                     89     96      80      72      67      73       72        74
Gross domestic fixed investment       36      37     35      26      31      47        59       53
Government investment                 1      1       3      3        3       4        4        6
Private investment                  35      36      32     23       28      43       55       47
Exports (GNFS)b                       29      23     28      41      40      32        29       26
Imports (GNFS)                        53     54      42      38      38      52        60       53
Gross domestic savings                11       4     20      28       33     27        28       26
Gross national savingsc               11      5      20      23      29      24        25       24
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product              3962   4446    4556    5269    5724    5942     6753      7548
(US$ million at current prices)
GNI per capita (US$, Atlas method)   410    510     570     600     670     720       780      850
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 2000 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices   10.0     7.4    11.1     9.0     8.5      8.5       8.0
oil and gas production        0.0   23.1    20.3     1.3     5.5     7.7       3.9      3.5
Gross Domestic Income              14.6    -3.5   12.1    26.5     2.3     0.4      10.0      9.9
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 2000 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices    9.0     6.4    10.1     8.0     7.5      7.5       7.0
Total consumption                  -2.6    16.6   -2.8     8.5     2.1     3.2       7.7     15.5
Private consumption                -4.0   13.1     0.2     7.9     4.3     1.0       8.2     16.8
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                    1150    1010   1283    2137    2300    1888      1985     1998
Merchandise FOB                   808    678    1027    1877    2025    1593      1670     1661
Imports (GNFS)b                   2101    2417    1917   2024     2170    3088     4072     4034
Merchandise FOB                  1375   1716    1433    1539    1457    2055     2615      2620
Resource balance                   -951   -1407   -634     113      130  -1200     -2087    -2036
Net current transfers                46     69      81      73      71      94        52       49
Current account balance            -971   -1356   -601    -124     -134   -1365    -2299    -2207
Net private foreign direct         1093   1024     550     119     351    1307      2341     2061
investment
Long-term loans (net)                11     49     207     239       87    131       183      167
Official                            26     73     139      80      140    121        70       34
Private                            -14     -24     68     160     -53      10       113      133
Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissions)  224  -4   -5 14   -225      -45      -97       34
Change in reservesd                -143     59    -152     280      -79     -29      -78      -55



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Azerbaijan - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
AcLual             Esdmate         Projected
Indicator             1997   1998    1999   2000     2001    2002   2003    2004
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)         -24.0  -31.7  -13.9    2.1    2.3   -20.2    -30.9    -27.0
Real annual growth rates ( YRO0
prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)          -16.7   37.6    7.6   17.8    31.3   -2.1     -0.3     -4.0
Primary                             7.5   28.2   13.9   36.8  -19.7     7.5      3.7     49.4
Manufactures                       -9.0  -18.2   32.2   42.0   -28.8    8.1      7.1      7.1
Merchandise imports (CIF)           -0.7   21.9  -21.7    8.9    -0.8   35.7     21.9     -2.4
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                   19.1    19.6   18.6    21.2    21.4    23.6    23.3    23.7
Current expenditures               18.9   21.9    20.0    17.8     17.0   19.7    18.8    18.6
Current account surplus (+) or deficit(-)  -2.3   -1.4     3.4     4.4     3.9     4.5     5.1
Capital expenditure                 3.3    2.2     3.8     4.1     3.0     4.0     4.3     6.3
Foreign financing                   1.9    4.3     6.0     3.6      1.7    2.1     2.7     1.8
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                             13.8    11.0   10.9    11.1     11.7   12.3    13.1    12.5
Growth of M2 (%)                   41.4   -13.3    8.7    27.1    19.1    10.7    21.2     6.3
Price indices( YROO =100)
Merchandise export price index     74.7   45.6    64.2    99.5    81.8    65.7    69.0    71.5
Merchandise import price index     92.9   95.1   101.4   100.0    95.4    99.2   103.6   106.4
Merchandise terms of trade index   80.5   47.9    63.3    99.5    85.7    66.2    66.6    67.3
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)'     107.2   111.1  109.3   100.0      ..
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)     3.7    -0.8   -8.5     1.8     2.0     3.1     3.3     3.3
GDP deflator (% change)             9.3   -1.0     2.2    12.4     3.2    -3.2     3.7     3.4
WEO oil price (USD/bbl)            19.3   13.1    18.0   28.3     24.3    18.5   19.0     19.0
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
Azerbaijan at a glance                                                            2/6/02
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Central    Low-
Azerbaijan     Asia  income       Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      8.1      475     2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  600     2,010      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     4.9      956     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                       1.0       0.1      1.9
Labor force (%)                                      1.7       0.6      2.4     GNI              IGross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                           capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  68
Urban population (% of total population)             57        67       32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     71        69       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             16        21       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           10                              Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  ..       90       76
Illiteracy (% of population aqe 15+)                  ..        3       38                       ..
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-a,epopulation)  106      100       96                  Azerbaian
Male                                              108       101      102                  Low-income group
Female                                            105        99       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990     1999      2000
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                           ..       ..      4.6       5.3
Gross domestic investmentfGDP                ..       ..     33.7      25.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..     ..      28.2      40.7                   Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..      ..      19.7     28.1
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..      ..     20.5      22.9                      T
Current account balance/GDP                  ..       ..     -13.2     -2.4     Domestic                  Investment
Interest payments/GDP                         ..      ..      0.3       0.7     savings
Total debVGDP                                 ..      ..      22.8     22.5     s
Total debt service/exports                   ..       ..      6.5       8.1
Present value of debtGDP                      ..      ..      16.3
Present value of debtlexports                ..       ..     56.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  ..     1.3      7.4      11.1      8.5            --..Azerbaijan
GDP per capita                      ..      0.3      6.4     10.1       7.5                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       ..      6.6      7.6      17.8      4.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
Agriculture                                  ..       .,      18.8     18.9     60
Industry                                     ..       ..     33.2      37.9       '
Manufacturinq                              ..       ..       7.5       6.8    2( 4
Services                                     ..       ..      48.0     43.2
Private consumption                           ..      ..     67.2      59.4     41
General government consumption               ..      .,      13.1      12.5                  -GD           GDP
Imports of goods and services                 .       .      42.1      38.4
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  ..      0.6      7.1      12.1    60
IndustrV                                     ..     -5.3      3.4       6.7    40
Manufacturing                              ..    -10.0      -9.1      15.0    20 +
Services                                     ..     15.6      11.4     11.9  ,        .  _ .S, . -    -
Private consumption                          ..     6.4       1.1       8.8   -2u           -          ''
Generalgovernment consumption                ..      5.4     -14.5     12.8    go
Gross domestic investment                    ..      5.6     -15.9      3.0             -                  I E   Olmports
Irnports of goods and services               ..      5.7    -21.7       8.9
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
Azerbaijan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Infatidn (%)
Domestic pnces                                                                  30-
I% changeJ
Consumer pnces                                 ..     ..      -8.6       1.8     20
Implicit GDP deflator                         ..      ..       1.6      13.0     10
Government finance                                                                            9
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             -10
Current revenue                               ..      ..       18.6     21.2     20
Current budget balance                        .,        ,      -1.4      34             -G   DP deflator   tCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..      ..      -5.2      -0.6
TRADE
t1980   t1990     t1999     2000     Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..      ..      1,027    1,886    2,000
CommoditV 1                                  ..      ..      451     1,044
Commodity 2                                  ..      ..      270       563     1,500*
Manufactures                                ..       ..       82         0
Total imports (cif)                           ..      ..      1,433    1,539    1,*00
Food                                        ..       ..      195         ..     s_
Fuel and energV                             ..       ..        4
Capital goods                                ..      1. 195            147       o-   -
94   95  96   97   98   99   00
Export ptice index (1995=100)                 ..      ..       116      182
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..       111      110                MExports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..       ..      105      165
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (S)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 ..      ..     1,283     2,137     0
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..      1,917    2,024     *s - 94       __
Resource balance                              ..      ..      -634      113      1C
Net income                                    ..      ..       -48     -310      1s
Net current transfers                         ..      ..        81       73      20
Current account balance                       ..      ..      -601     -124     25
Financing items (net)                         ..      ..       753     -156     -30
Changes in net reserves                       ..      ..      -152      280     *3s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        ..      ..       676      680
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              ..      ..    4,120.2  4,472.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   ComposItion of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..      ..      1,038    1,184
IBRD                                        ..      ..         0        0
IDA                                         ..      ..       199      216                G: 15         B: 216
Total debt service                            ..      ..        86      181
IBRD                                        ..      ..         0        0
IDA                                         ..      ..         1        2
Composition of net resource flows                                                        (
Official grants                             ..      ..         0        0
Official creditors                          ..      ..       139       80                                   C: 336
Private creditors                           ..      ..        88       45                   _   :
Foreign direct investment                   ..      ,.       510      119           E: 183
Portfolio equity                            ..      ..         0        0                    D: 104
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..      ..         ..       .,     A - IeRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..      ..        ..        .,     B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..      ..         0        0      C - IMF                   G - Short-tem
Net flows
Interest payments                           ..      ..         1        2
Net transfers                               ..
Development Economics                                                                                             2/6/02



ANNEX V
Azerbaijan - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual            Estimate      Projected
Indicator           1997  1998   1999  2000    2001    2002   2003   2004
Total debt outstanding and    507    708   1038   1184     1291   1442   1586   1680
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a     138    181    320     73       53    126    145    132
Total debt service (TDS)       78     24     86    181      123    134    170    147
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service
indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                    43.5   67.4   78.9   52.8     53.7   72.1   74.9   77.6
TDO/GDP                     12.8   15.9   22.8   22.5     22.6   24.3   23.5   22.3
TDS/XGS                      6.7    2.3    6.5    8.1      5.1    6.7    8.0    6.8
Concessional/TDO            23.0   23.1   29.1   33.3       ..
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Preferred creditor DS/public  87.5  53.1  48.5   49.5     65.4   63.1   67.3   78.6
DS (%)c
IBRD DS/XGS                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
IBRD TDO (US$m)d               0      0      0      0        0      0      0      0
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)        ...   ...    ...     ...     ...    ...    ...
IDA TDO (US$m)d              116    141    199    216      259    303    332    353
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net
short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the
IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



ANNEX VI
AZERBAIJAN - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of key Processing Events
1. Time taken to prepare:       I 1 months
2. Prepared by:                 Government of Azerbaijan with the assistance of
IDA staff
3. Preparation Mission:         May 2001
4. Appraisal Mission:           November 2001
5. Negotiations:                February 2002
6. Planned Board Presentation:  March 2002
7. Planned date of Effectiveness:  March 2002



MAP SECTION






- ,t, >1 -     RUSSIAN
,G E  O R G I A           ~r  5        FEDERATION                                  AZERBAIJAN
*.- Fbii~.  ~   ~  .'   1.            -                         SELECl ED CITIES AND TOWNS
N,  -...     -   -*r~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~   ..I-bchrviol      *  ~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
b -b4l.s *                                           ,  ,r ^ > \ ' L ~ - r UMi- - --- ROADS
,> r. ,)  ,.  <             1, '\    >,,                                               RAILROADS
-~~~  ~ ~   hisiota ~~~~~~~  /  %~~heik.                 4,,hAIRPORTS
--)liktc       I                             Oe.ech.51 f-,-h.k. -1,  ^  1   i  _  RIVERS
1~4  i,h  Is '.                                        .                - ~ ;   '.  --  INTERNArIONAL BOUNDARIES
4  '''-            -' --                j.eS;> "   ~   7AbaI> ,,       5 
Be,                                            K  -L
ARMENIA     .9 ke                   Boyd.9                                              _
| |; > ~~~~~Aghder5t :)e.--
-    ') _Ke,      A Z ER B A I J A N         .
Agkdom{&, r-%Af g ;h1bed; --B O  -                |            '- _       HldIC A S P I A N  SE A A
LLI  1o VewveG                     rol .--
(' ' S ;C " tX Qj Kh ;< ,,. . \ \ ,; .. :_ . ,^ *w-~ . ^.r .. ; o .   I
.-.         .                 '.-                           -Sob o.                heh bo.nd, .n  a,  -eoe.t  c ordSlA  cey .e  I-
-                                l   ')iel.i  '_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  .A,1.c'fi.vo&.o ." l _ e.r  el 'he l W B . _r.
I       C                                      IOF IRANL~^ 1                o.,Je..ee..a'I...3. :e'.e.sec
3n~~~                                          ~    ~   ~~ . _ir -... -' rO-te -                             e5
A;hdo. ,                           -  -                    r     ri d- -  I.
wt    .        .                                                                             S TlNokkke.or.  Ko*a.tACk? C.AII I.P OEPAN  K2I(RIAls1N
Shw ih.                '' ''k        bon'"
ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC OF IRAN  -  h--                       -    ~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~-,  d--- 
In.                                           stare                                           z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'.W .
Y I                                                                               V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UIE  .



