                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 29422


                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (TF-25389 IDA-36150)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION

                                 TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                      AZERBAIJAN

                  FOR THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                     September 1, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
South Caucauses Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective April 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Manat (AZM)
                               Manat (AZM) 1 = US$ .0002
                                           US$ 1 = Manat (AZM) 4925

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1-        December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEEPs          Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA           Country Financial Accountability Assessment
COA            Chamber of Accounts
COM            Cabinet of Ministers
CPAR           Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPIA           Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESW            Country economic and sector work
FSAP           Financial Sector Assessment Report
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IAS            International Accounting Standards
IBA            International Bank of Azerbaijan
IBTA           Institution Building Technical Assistance
IDA            International Development Association
IDPs           Internally-Displaced Populations
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IFIs           International Financial Institutions
IMF            International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP         Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MED            Ministry of Economic Development
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOLSP          Ministry of Labor and Social Security of Population
MTEF           Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NBA            National Bank of Azerbaijan
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
PIP            Public Investment Program
PPIAF          Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRGF           Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PRSC           Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
SDR            Special Drawing Rights, 1 SDR=1.26 US$
SOCAR          State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic
SOE            State-owned Enterprise
SPRRED         State Programme on Poverty Reduction and Economic Development
TA             Technical Assistance
USAID          United States Agency for International Development


                               Vice President:        Shigeo Katsu
                             Country Director         D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
                              Sector Manager          Samuel K.E. Otoo
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Christian E. Petersen

                                         AZERBAIJAN
                                   SAC II (formerly PSRAC)


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              4
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 20
6. Sustainability                                                                     21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      22
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    25
9. Partner Comments                                                                   25
10. Additional Information                                                            26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 36
Annex 8. List of Officials from the Government, Agencies, and Others Interviewed      37
During Mission to Baku, April 19-24, 2004, and at Headquarters

Project ID: P055131                                                  Project Name: SAC II (formerly PSRAC)
Team Leader: Christian E. Petersen                                   TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 2, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SAC II (formerly PSRAC)                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-25389; IDA-36150
   Country/Department: AZERBAIJAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (47%); Oil and gas (19%);
                            Power (15%); Water supply (12%); General industry and trade sector
                            (7%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Standards and financial reporting (P); Other economic management
                            (S); Regulation and competition policy (S); Other financial and
                            private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/19/1999                                     Effective: 03/13/2002                03/13/2002
     Appraisal: 10/26/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 03/12/2002                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF AZERBAIJAN/PRIME MINISTER'S OFFICE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            Judy M. O' Connor
Sector Director:                Cheryl W. Gray                                 Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:             Christian E. Petersen                          Christian E. Petersen
ICR Primary Author:             Sulaiman S. Wasty


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

Country Assistance Context

Azerbaijan has experienced many of the same challenges as other CIS transition economies - severe
economic contraction during the early 1990s, a concomitant deterioration in social services and
infrastructure and sharp increase in poverty, and a daunting agenda of reforms and institutional challenges
needed to redefine the role of the state and create the essential underpinnings of a market economy. In
Azerbaijan's case, however, these challenges were exacerbated by armed conflict with Armenia over
Nagorno-Karabakh, which led to nearly one million internally displaced people (IDPs) and refugees, loss of
control over some 20 percent of the land area, and disruption of key regional trade and transport links. On
a more positive note, however, Azerbaijan's future again holds tremendous promise because of new efforts
to develop its significant oil and gas resources. How the country manages the exploitation of these finite
natural resources and the associated revenue boom will determine the success of its medium-term poverty
reduction goals, set out in its PRSP, called the State Program for Poverty Reduction and Economic
Development 2003-2005 (SPPRED, Report No. 25593-AZ).

Azerbaijan entered the post-independence transition period considerably poorer than many other former
Soviet republics. Azerbaijan's GDP then dropped by 63 percent during 1989-95, compared with an
average of 42 percent in the CIS. Thus, even with economic recovery beginning in 1996 and GDP growth
averaging more than 8 percent a year over 1997-2002, GDP is still 40 percent less than in 1989 and nearly
half the population remains below the national poverty line.

The signing of a number of Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs) with oil companies in the mid-1990s
and initiation of stabilization and standard reform programs marked the beginning of a turnaround in
Azerbaijan's development prospects. These have opened the way for investment in two major pipelines
which are scheduled for completion by around 2005: the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) pipeline will carry oil
primarily from the Azeri, Chirag and Gunashli (ACG) oil fields in Azerbaijan to the Turkish port of
Ceyhan on the Mediterranean Sea through Georgia, and the Shah-Deniz pipeline will transport gas to
Turkey, also through Georgia. Managing the expected substantial, but without major new discoveries,
short-lived revenue windfall resulting from these investments, in a way that avoids the risk of severe
macroeconomic distortions and encourages diversification and growth of the non-oil sector, poses a
complex set of challenges. Consistent with the FY00-02 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No.
19892-AZ), the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-II, Report No. P7512-AZ), approved by the
Board on March 12, 2002, focused on helping Azerbaijan meet these challenges. This focus is maintained
in the FY03-05 CAS (Report No. 25790-AZ).

As in other CIS countries, the tasks of overcoming the legacy of inefficient production, outdated
technology, monopolies, disregard for consumer preferences, environmental neglect and the absence of the
institutions of a market economy have proved more difficult in Azerbaijan than initially anticipated. The
record of policy and institutional reform has been mixed, as noted in the ICR of the first SAC of 1997-99
(Report No. 21502-AZ), but there clearly has been a gain in momentum since 2001. This did not stem
from a need to deal with a debt or related financing crisis. Rather, the success of the stabilization program,
growing foreign investor interest, and the prospect and risks of large-scale oil revenues seem to have
strengthened the authorities' interest in and commitment to reforms.

The advent of the SPPRED process provided a timely opportunity for the government and other national
stakeholders to initiate a dialogue and planning of a medium-term development strategy which emphasizes
tackling poverty and strengthening governance, with technical cooperation from the international
community. SAC-II supported this process from the I-PRSP (Report No. 22336-AZ) stage and forward.
The most significant reforms have included establishing a State Oil Fund (SOFAZ); the adoption of more


                                                    - 2 -

transparent budget preparation and execution; establishing the supreme audit capacity; utility sector
reform, including reduction in implicit subsidies, greater financial transparency, private sector
participation, and moving towards an independent regulatory agency; as well as modernization of tax and
customs administrations on the basis of a modern Tax Code and more liberal trade regime.

The reform program was also supported by the first Institutional Building and Technical Assistance project
(IBTA, see ICR Report No. 26986-AZ), as well as the follow-on IBTA-II, which is directly designed to
support implementation of SAC-II. Close coordination with the ongoing IMF Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) and with donor programs greatly enhanced the scope and performance of the
reforms.

Recent Macroeconomic Performance

The dramatic output collapse of Azerbaijan's economy in the early to mid-1990s witnessed double-digit
fiscal deficits financed by money creation, hyperinflation, sharp currency depreciation and rapidly depleting
foreign exchange reserves. Essentially, stability was restored in 1994 and Azerbaijan started to undertake
significant structural reforms. Privatization of small businesses, collective farms, and land were largely
completed and the legal framework for privatization of large enterprises was launched with clear rules and
regulations. The legal basis for a market economy was largely established and the public sector underwent
substantial reforms, including reform of the central bank, restructuring of Government ministries, and
establishment of the Treasury.

Since 1995, Azerbaijan has been the fastest growing country in the CIS with one of the highest levels of
foreign direct investment (FDI) per capita. The Azerbaijan economy grew on average by more than 8
percent a year during 1997-2002. In 2003, growth is estimated at 11.2 percent. This growth performance
reflects a significant increase in investments in the oil and gas sectors, combined with sound economic
performance in the other sectors. Azerbaijan has been successful in maintaining macroeconomic stability,
notwithstanding the sizeable annual capital inflows of as much as 33 percent of GDP recently. Sterilization
of oil receipts through SOFAZ together with prudent fiscal policies has succeeded in preventing sustained
real exchange rate appreciation since 1995. For a detailed analysis see the Public Expenditure Review,
Report No. 25233-AZ.

Azerbaijan has had large current account deficits financed by capital account surpluses resulting from
strong FDI inflows and official lending. During 1995-2003, cumulative FDI inflows amounted to US$10
billion mainly in the energy sector. In 2001, the current account deficit dropped to below 1.0 percent of
GDP as oil exports doubled in dollar terms. In 2002 and 2003, however, current account deficit increased
significantly to 13 percent and 20 percent of GDP respectively, due to high oil sector imports related to the
construction of the BTC pipeline and upstream oil platform development.

The fiscal stance has been considerably strengthened since 1995, as revenues have grown and the deficit
has declined. Fiscal adjustment required expenditure cuts, which among other things, resulted in lower
allocations for social sector spending. During 2000-2003, the consolidated government deficit, excluding
Oil Fund revenues, grew from 4.9 percent to 6.7 percent of non-oil GDP. This is consistent with the
Government's cautious intention in spending oil revenues while the institutions for managing and spending
that wealth are being developed.




                                                    - 3 -

                                     Azerbaijan - Key Economic Indicators


                                                                                         Actual           Estimate
                           Indicator                           2000        2001       2002       2003      2004
                                      billion manats, unless otherwise indicated
 Nominal Gross Domestic Product at market prices                 23,591     26,578    30,312      35,054   40,616
 Real Gross Domestic Product at market prices                    25,946     28,514    31,523      35,054   38,241
   Real GDP growth rate (%)                                        11.1         9.9      10.6        11.2       9.1
   Real Non-Oil GDP growth rate (%)                                13.7        10.4      12.3        15.5      10.4
   GDP Deflator (2003=100)                                         90.9        93.2      96.2       100.0    106.2
 Consumer Price Index (2003=100)                                   93.7        95.2      97.8       100.0    105.6
                                                  as share of GDP*
  Agricultue                                                       17.1        16.1      15.0        14.1      13.7
  Industry                                                         45.3        47.2      50.2        54.5      54.9
   o/w oil and gas                                                 29.5        32.2      31.4        31.2      31.1
   o/w other                                                       15.9        15.0      18.8        23.3      23.8
  Services                                                         37.5        36.7      34.8        31.4      31.4

 Total Consumption                                                 80.7        75.7      75.3        73.2      67.9
  Government Consumption                                           15.2        13.6      12.4        11.7      21.7
  Private Consumption                                              65.5        62.1      62.9        61.5      57.0

 Gross Fixed Investments                                           23.1        22.9      34.1        50.8      54.5
  Government Investments                                            3.0         2.1       5.6         6.1       4.7
  Private Investments                                              20.1        20.8      28.5        44.7      49.8
                                    million US dollars, unless otherwise indicated
 Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services                       2,058.5    2,335.7    2,667.1    3,055.4   3,626.2
 Imports of Goods and Non-Factor Services                       2,023.5    2,130.0    3,121.1    4,767.7   5,469.6
 Net Foreign Direct Investments                                   148.5      298.7    1,047.8    2,353.0   2,429.1

 Current Account Balance (as share of GDP)                         -3.6        -0.9     -12.3       -28.3     -27.8
                                                   as share of GDP
 Consolidated Revenues                                             21.2        18.7      27.3        27.5      27.7
 Consolidated Expenditures                                         20.8        18.7      27.7        29.2      26.8
 Consolidated Deficit                                              -0.6        -0.5      -0.5        -1.2       1.0
 Consolidated Government Deficit excluding the Oil Fund            -3.4        -1.5      -3.6        -2.9      -1.0

 Source: State Statistics Committee, the World Bank and the IMF Staff Estimates
 *Note: Sectorial shares of GDP is derived based on the GDP at factor cost


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

SAC-II was designed to support and deepen the structural reform momentum that started to accelerate in
2001. Its aim was to bolster crucial components of the Government's structural reform program intended
to: (i) enhance public sector efficiency; and (ii) accelerate non-oil sector growth. In particular, SAC-II
would support (a) public sector reforms to strengthen policies and institutions for public expenditure
management, poverty monitoring, social services and safety nets through better targeting and special
initiatives for refugees and IDPs; and (b) accelerated and more broad-based development of the non-oil



                                                    - 4 -

sector through continuous diagnosis and improvement of the business environment, and better financial
discipline and service delivery in the utility sectors. Besides eliminating a major source of soft-budget
constraints and facilitating private participation, utility sector reforms would reduce the health risks
associated with unsafe water, as well as the social, economic and environmental consequences of unreliable
electricity and gas supply.

SAC-II is consistent with the FY00-02 CAS, which outlined a three-part agenda for accelerating poverty
reduction and growth in Azerbaijan: (i) reform of public sector institutions; (ii) a strengthened regulatory
and business environment for private sector development (particularly in the non-oil sector); and (iii)
investment in social development, including targeted poverty alleviation measures. At the time the CAS
was presented in 1999, uncertainties over the Government's reform intentions led the Bank to place
Azerbaijan in the Low Case. During most of 2000, the policy dialogue remained stalemated--largely over
Bank concerns about governance.

Over the course of 2001, the policy environment in Azerbaijan changed. The success of the stabilization
program, growing foreign investor interest, and the prospect and risks of large-scale oil revenues possibly
combined to strengthen the reforms. Renewed reforms did not stem from a need to deal with a debt or
related financing crisis. As mentioned, the advent of the PRSP process provided an important opportunity
for the IMF and World Bank to re-engage with the Government in a medium term economic development
strategy with the twin objectives of tackling poverty and strengthening governance. The Public Sector
Reform Adjustment Credit (PSRAC) proposed in the CAS had concentrated mostly on civil service reform,
but little ownership was found for such reform. PSRAC was replaced by SAC-II in order to: (i) take on
board the emerging concern about the quasi-fiscal deficit estimated at 20 percent of GDP in 2000 - 60
percent higher than public spending on health and education combined; and (ii) to take account of actions
with better ownership in the public sector reform sphere, such as budget planning, auditing, and
procurement reform.

SAC-II became a key instrument to catalyze further action in some of the most politically sensitive and
technically complex areas of the Government's program and follow through with the proper implementation
of these. SAC-II became a key instrument to move the Bank program from the current Low Case to the
Base Case.

The Bank correctly believed that it could play a useful role in engaging the Government in a dialogue on
reforms that would improve the transparency and efficiency of public sector institutions, thereby improving
the investment environment, begin reforms in the energy sector to make a dent in the quasi-fiscal deficits,
and help reduce poverty. SAC-II was thus intended to support selective areas of the Government's broad
reform agenda, as outlined in the I-PRSP and complementing and reinforcing other Bank Group projects.
Importantly, the IMF had recently gone ahead with a three-year financing program (SDR 80.5 million,
approved in July 2001) under the PRGF. Insofar as the institutional capacity was concerned, a broad array
of technical assistance (TA) from the Bank and other donors was in place. A financial sector TA had been
approved earlier in 2001 to alleviate shortcomings in the banking industry and financial intermediation.
Additionally, IBTA-II extended simultaneous to SAC-II was to address critical remaining bottlenecks and
ensure transparency in sensitive areas such as the privatization of the utility entities, and to factor in
environmental and social impact of the reforms.


3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised.



                                                     - 5 -

3.3 Original Components:



The reform program supported by SAC-II consisted of the following components:

I.   improving transparency and accountability in public financial management, including the
     establishment of the supreme audit institution;
II.  strengthening the tracking of poverty-reducing public expenditures, and monitoring their impact on
     poverty;
III. improving strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-term public expenditure and
     investment programs;
IV. introducing transparency and financial discipline in the energy sector, including fiscalization of
     quasi-fiscal activities;
V.   reducing conflicts of interest and corruption in the business environment, including enforcement of
     regulations, separation of regulatory and commercial functions, and tax and customs modernization;
VI. improving transparency, financial discipline and competition in the banking sector; and
VII. improving the privatization process.


3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory

The SAC-II was a follow-up operation to the 1997-99 SAC (Report Nos. 2978-AZ and 2978-1-AZ),
taking into account lessons learned from implementation of that credit. The SAC addressed the issues of
creating competitive markets, notably land, reducing the role of the state in economic and commercial
activities, and developing an efficient banking system. Post-implementation assessments generally find that
the credit's objectives and components were appropriate to the reform challenges at the time, but that
implementation was weak. The SAC also did not score well in regard to its poverty and social impact.
These shortcomings reflect the fact that, given the objectives of the SAC, the design and implementation
arrangements did not fully incorporate key social issues and the views of major stakeholders through a
participatory process. Furthermore, the QAG rated SAC poorly in regard to risk mitigation and
sustainability, raising questions on the extent of borrower ownership and the adequacy of the institutional
capacity base, and recommending closer linkage of tranche release conditions to the achievement of
development objectives as opposed to processes. Nonetheless, as noted earlier and above, after a hiatus, the
authorities made renewed progress in the reform areas supported by the SAC.

Lessons learned from SAC are: (i) transition to a market economy is a gradual and lengthy process that is
marked by incremental changes to the status quo ­ in other words - over-ambitious goals and short time
frames should be avoided; (ii) capacity constraints cannot be understated, and should influence the design
and timetable of our operations in countries such as Azerbaijan; (iii) there may sometimes be a justifiable
reason for adjusting the implementation timetable; and (iv) more efforts should be put to ensure objectives
are shared with a broad range of Government counterparts.




                                                      - 6 -

The ECA Region reviewed the initial design concept of SAC-II, based on discussions with the Government
in the I-PRSP context, in July 2001. It was decided to continue with a formal Quality Enhancement
Review (QER), which was conducted under the auspices of QAG in September 2001.

·         The QER panel found consensus on the need to change the role of the state, to increase financial
discipline and efficiency of public resource use inter alia for poverty impact, since public investment is
likely to continue in many sectors (e.g., transport), and to reduce opportunities for corruption.
·         Nonetheless, the panel found the proposed coverage of SAC-II too broad. It noted a serious
disconnect with known institutional capacity and demonstrated past political will to carry through difficult
reforms. The analytical foundation for some core reforms was not evident.
·         A less fast processing time table was recommended to enable more depth to be introduced in some
areas, without compensating with more process conditions. It would be important that the second tranche
be conditioned on tangible and measurable indicators of systemic change. Negotiating unambiguous
measurable indicators would provide a litmus test of the authorities' political will to implement actions that
would have systemic impact. Wherever possible, these measures should be those that would institutionalize
the process of governance monitoring by the broader public. Back loaded tranching was seen as an option,
as was a floating (third) tranche in areas that may require more preparatory work. For the actions
envisaged, the projected timing of second tranche release appeared optimistic.
·         It would be essential that the Region agree on the actions which are non-negotiable before
approaching the borrower - and these should conform with the central objective of provoking and
demonstrating systemic change. The panel recognized that in FSU countries like Azerbaijan this would be
a long term process, which may need to be followed with subsequent adjustment operations and large doses
of analytical and technical support.
·         The need to move fast on all fronts( privatization, social safety nets etc) recognizing that all
elements are not in place was acknowledged. This made it imperative that areas selected for reform be
accompanied by abundant capacity building through the IBTA II operation.

The design of SAC-II benefited tremendously from the QER and an the subsequent Regional Operations
Committee (ROC) review. It helped to focus the reform support, thoroughly evaluate the Government's
capacity and ownership in the different areas, and identify the core conditions for the second tranche.
Consequently agriculture, pension reform, privatization (other than utilities) and financial sector reforms
where dropped. Core areas to support through the SAC-II would be: (i) financial discipline in the public
sector reform including quasi-fiscal issues; (ii) alleviating worst offenders in the social sphere; as well as
(iii) strengthening the business environment in the non-oil sector, and eliminating barriers to entry.

The first Operations Committee (OC) meeting was held on October 11, 2001. SAC-II was characterized as
a highly risky operation attempting to support a turn-around case for a country with little track record, and
involving high reputational risk for IDA. Main questions concerned: (i) the rationale for IDA budget
support to a country with substantial and increasing resources saved in its Oil Fund or whether a TA
operation would be more appropriate and effective; (ii) the governance framework for SOFAZ; (iii) the
proper targeting of SOFAZ resources, including whether earmarking of expenditures would be appropriate;
(iv) whether enough progress was being made on budgetary reform and the establishment of a
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and Public Investment Program (PIP); and (v) fiduciary
issues related to financial accountability, State audit, and State procurement practices.

The members of the OC and the SAC-II team met daily for two weeks in order to progress on these issues.
This exceptionally intensive process led to a substantial improvement in the coherence of the design of the
program, and more emphasis on fiduciary issues by advancing the Country Financial Accountability



                                                      - 7 -

Assessment (CFAA) and Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR).

On the basis of a revised policy framework matrix a 25 member appraisal mission completed its work in
November 2001, and a final OC meeting on December 7, 2001, authorized the Region to proceed with
negotiations, subject to further clarification of: (i) the medium-term expenditure strategy, the future
development of an MTEF and PIP and the inclusion of SOFAZ expenditures in these; (ii) horizontal
accountability of SOFAZ, i.e. Parliamentary and civil society oversight and periodic public disclosure; (iii)
inclusion in second tranche conditions of CFAA and CPAR action plans; (iv) the schedule for the reduction
of implicit subsidies in the energy sector; and (v) whether "hardened" IDA credit terms should be applied.

In terms of Quality at Entry the Azerbaijan SAC-II is probably one of the most scrutinized IDA operations
ever. It set a precedent for using the SAC instrument for furthering the reform dialogue with a government,
even when there is no financing gap. It also clarified the Bank's position on not earmarking revenues of
extractive industries for specific purposes, but rather concentrate on strengthening the overall budget
planning, execution, and audit processes. Finally, it was determined that the existing IDA "claw-back" rule
in fact could be expected to lead to even harder terms that IDA "hardened terms" in the case of Azerbaijan,
and as such the later were not applied.




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall Outcome: Satisfactory

SAC-II was a two-tranche operation with prior actions. The second tranche was released on time in June
2003. Implementation of the structural adjustment program supported by SAC-II has been very good. The
macroeconomic and fiscal framework has been satisfactory during the program period. The IMF completed
the second review of the PRGF on May 2003 and the third review in December 2003. The Government
met, and in important aspects exceeded, 11 out of the 12 core conditions of SAC-II second tranche release.
Progress with respect to 29 non-core conditions and the program of the Letter of Development Policy has
been satisfactory in all material aspects. One condition was not fully met owing to delays in obtaining the
necessary funding for technical assistance, but satisfactory progress was made. A PPIAF funded TA
project for the utilities regulatory framework started only in May 2003. In order to remedy the late start of
the TA, the Cabinet approved a Letter of Intent stating the salient principles and a detailed action plan for
implementation. The TA has since been completed and the Government is following the action plan.

On the strategic level SAC-II successfully contributed to two very important outcomes. First, it facilitated
obtaining the financing for the more than $13 billion investment in oil and gas structures, and particularly
IFC and EBRD financing each in the order of $800 million with $250 million in A-loans. SAC-II, and the
dialogue and relationship generated by it, contributed in a major way to establishing the governance
framework for the Oil Fund, a framework that by many are considered best practice today. Going beyond
SAC-II conditionality, amendments to the Budget System Law (BSL) providing for the integration of Oil
Fund expenditures with the consolidated budget of the Government were passed by Parliament on May
13, 2003. With these amendments, the Parliament approves the overall public expenditure envelope,
including Oil Fund expenditures. This strengthens horizontal accountability and legislative oversight of the
Oil Fund considerably.




                                                     - 8 -

The second important strategic outcome is the SPPRED. SAC-II set in motion the whole PRSP process.
To address poverty, the Government has committed to a comprehensive program through a balanced
approach to economic reform as outlined in the SPPRED, which was approved by the President of
Azerbaijan in February 2003. The SPPRED was prepared with significant input and participation by a
broad range of civil society and key stakeholders through 15 Sector Working Groups. Regional Town Hall
meetings were organized to identify priorities for poverty reduction. The SPPRED identifies six key
strategic goals to reduce poverty and to increase standard of living of the population: (i) creating an
enabling environment for growth of income-generating opportunities; (ii) maintaining macroeconomic
stability; (iii) improving quality and access to basic health and education services; (iv) improving
infrastructure; (v) reforming the system of social protection; and (vi) improving the living conditions of
IDPs.

As stated in the Joint Staff Assessment (JSA), the SPPRED presents a credible poverty reduction strategy
and its broad policy priorities are appropriate and consistent with multi-dimensional nature of poverty
reduction and reflect the need for balanced growth through developing the non-oil sector and reducing
differences in development between Baku and the rest of the country. The Government is committed to
exercise considerable caution over the use of the expected oil and gas windfall and to ensure that the
benefits resulting from the exploitation of this natural asset would accrue to all citizens and to future
generations. SAC-II in synergy with the SPPRED put in place the initial integrated MTEF and PIP.

All of Azerbaijan's future depends on these two strategic outcomes, and on steady implementation progress
of the wide-ranging multi-sectoral reform program.

Achievements in the overall objective of acceleration of non-oil sector growth have been remarkable during
the SAC-II period. This is despite a deceleration in the oil sector due to capacity constraints, which will be
alleviated as the BTC, upstream and gas investments are completed in 2005-06.



 growth rates in real terms      2001        2002     2003      2004*
 - Non-Oil Sector GDP            10.4        12.3     15.5       10.8
 - Oil Sector GDP                  7.9        3.9       0.4       0.8
 Total GDP                         9.9       10.6     11.2        9.1
Source: IMF data; * projected


The second overall objective of enhancing public sector efficiency can be measured by the improvement in
Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) ratings from 2000 to 2003. Management of inflation
and macroeconomic imbalances has remained at the highest score throughout the period. Management and
sustainability of the development program has improved to far above the IDA average. The Competitive
environment for the private sector has improved by 1.5 points since in 2000 to about the IDA average.
Policies for social inclusion and equity are yet to shown improvement, and have stayed at the IDA average
during the period. More needs to be done, and our sector projects in Azerbaijan are prioritizing these areas,
see component II below. In terms of public sector management and institutions, SAC-II has contributed to
very significant improvements. In year 2000, all governance indicators had consistently been rated the
lowest for a couple of years. With SAC-II governance indicators have increased significantly to above the
IDA average.

In terms of poverty reduction it is still early to make a firm judgement of the impact of SAC-II, but
indications point to a substantial reduction in poverty. As elaborated in Section 4.2-II below, the



                                                      - 9 -

methodology for measuring poverty was changed from 2001 to 2002, which renders the data incomparable.
The overall poverty incidence in 2001 (based on the 2001 Household Budget Survey) was estimated at
nearly 50 percent, while the extreme poverty rate was estimated at over 17 percent. The more recent
figures, based on the 2002 HBS, estimate the overall poverty at 46.7 percent and the extreme poverty
incidence at 8.8 percent. At the same time, the poverty line estimate was raised from $24 per month in 2001
to a more reasonable $35 in 2002. Preliminary results for 2003 indicate that poverty is falling rather
rapidly, albeit from a high level.

4.2 Outputs by components:

(Core conditions are listed in bold).

       [For a comparison of the issues, expected achievements, and outputs/outcomes: see Annex I.]

(Component I) Improving transparency and accountability in public financial management, including the
establishment of the supreme audit institution. Substantial

         The MTEF for FY 2003-2005 and the PIP for FY 2003-2005, consistent with the MTEF, have been
approved

The MTEF has been approved as an attachment to the SPPRED and endorsed by Presidential Decree of
February 20, 2003. The Cabinet has approved and submitted the PIP consistent with the MTEF to the
President's Office (letter of the Prime Minister of April 29, 2003). TA for strengthening the capacity for
appraisal of public investment projects is supported by IBTA-II. Subsequently the MTEF and PIP have
been prepared for 2005-07.

         (a) The BSL of the Borrower has been enacted; and (b) the budget for FY 2003, consistent with the
MTEF and the Borrower's BSL, has been approved by the Borrower's Cabinet of Ministers, integrating all
remaining state extrabudgetary resources into the state budget with the exception of the Oil Fund.

The 2003 Budget Law (enacted on December 26, 2002) was prepared according to the principles of the
BSL (approved on Oct 31, 2002) and is consistent with the MTEF. The Social Protection Fund, a pension
fund appropriately placed outside the budget, and the State Oil Fund are the only remaining extrabudgetary
funds not included in the State Budget.       Very important amendments to the BSL providing for the
integration of Oil Fund expenditures with the consolidated budget of the Government were passed by
Parliament on May 13, 2003. With these amendments, the Parliament approves the overall public
expenditure envelope, including Oil Fund expenditures. Also the FY2004 Budget was prepared and
approved accordingly, and institutional capacity is being strengthened further as the FY2005 Budget Law
is being prepared.

Other issues on financial management relate to Treasury management encompassing functional
requirements for the budget implementation and accounting processes, and internal and external auditing.
The establishment of the Single Treasury account has resulted in better cash management and better
controls of budget execution. IBTA-II together with USAID is supporting the computerization of the
Treasury, which is expected be functional by end-2004.

         (a) Provided evidence of satisfactory implementation of the Public Procurement Implementation
Plan; (b) implemented a process of Public Procurement review by independent procurement auditors
commencing with pilot audits in FY 2002; and (c) published the results of the pilot audits as well as the plans




                                                   - 10 -

for any remedial actions.

The new State Procurement Law according to international principles has been enacted, and institutional
development of the State Procurement Agency (SPA) is moving forward including the beginnings of
E-government.

The Charter of the SPA and implementation of the Public Procurement Plan have been endorsed by the
Cabinet. The Cabinet also has approved the recommendations and action plan of the CPAR (Report No.
26778-AZ), which is being implemented satisfactorily with supervision of the ECA procurement team. An
international expert has conducted the procurement audit, and is assisting with implementation of the plan.
The procurement audit report concluded that competitive biddings held for public procurement purposes
are in broad compliance with the principles and rules of fair competition, and implemented in accordance
with provisions of the Law. While the SPA is assessed a capable entity, among the best in the region, the
audit report outlines a range of remedial actions to strengthen the procurement capacity of the line
ministries. These issues are being addressed through IDF funded training. The SPA has published the
results of the pilot audits as well as plans for remedial actions.

         (a) Appointed at least five auditors for the Chamber of Accounts; (b) developed a satisfactory
organizational structure; (c) created staff grades with acceptable job descriptions and recruitment criteria;
(d) installed appropriate equipment with the Chamber of Accounts; (e) prepared the Chamber of Accounts'
work plan for FY 2003; and (f) submitted the financial plan for the Chamber of Accounts for FY 2003 to the
Parliament.

With support of SAC-II the Chamber of Accounts (COA) was established - the supreme audit institution of
Azerbaijan.    Five auditors including the Deputy Chairman have been appointed by the Parliament.
Organizational structure, staff grades, recruitment criteria, job descriptions have been developed. The work
plan for 2003 has been carried out. Computer equipment and software have been procured supported by
IBTA-II. A contract for long-term technical assistance has been cleared, and started with some delay in
May 2004. The financial plan for FY2003 and for FY2004 have been approved by Parliament, and the
Chamber has reported to Parliament on its findings.

         Implemented a satisfactory public financial accountability action plan.

The Cabinet has approved the recommended action plan of the CFAA (Report No. 26995-AZ). The plan
sets a range of medium and long-term objectives, which would take 2-3 years to implement.
Implementation is progressing with full implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) in the banking sector. Extremely important is the recent passage by Parliament of the new
Accounting Law introducing IFRS. The new Law and related secondary legislation among other things
will: (i) mandate the use of pure IFRS by public interest entities, (ii) mandate the use of National
Accounting Standards consistent with IFRS by all other entities, except micro enterprises and natural
persons, for which a simplified accounting system would be sufficient; and, (iii) establish an appropriate
framework for the governance of accounting standard setting under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance. The new Law also stipulates that the consolidated budget accounting system should conform to
generally accepted accounting standards for governmental entities (IPSAS) according to the International
Federation of Accountants. Strengthening the internal audit function will be addressed as part of the
strategy to be worked out for implementation of these new public accounting standards.



(Component II) Strengthening the tracking of poverty-reducing public expenditures, and monitoring their



                                                     - 11 -

impact on poverty. Substantial

         Adopted a satisfactory medium-term strategy for enhancing targeting of social assistance and
reducing the impact on the poor of new public utility policies.

Despite the recent high rates of growth, poverty in Azerbaijan remains widespread. According to the
SPPRED, the overall poverty incidence in 2001 (based on the 2001 Household Budget Survey, HBS) was
estimated at nearly 50 percent, while the extreme poverty rate was estimated at over 17 percent. The more
recent figures, based on the 2002 HBS, estimate the overall poverty at 46.7 percent and the extreme
poverty incidence at 8.8 percent. Because of the changes made in the questionnaire, the 2001 and 2002
HBS data sets are not comparable. Likewise, the poverty line estimate was raised from $24 per month in
2001 to a more reasonable $35 in 2002.

The 2002 data shows that incidence of poverty is slightly higher among urban than rural households, 47.8
percent and 45.4 percent respectively, and is associated with falling employment opportunities and earnings
in the formal economy. The rural areas are more deficient in terms of access to services and adequate
infrastructure, factors that contribute to intense rural-urban migration. Although Baku (40 percent of
poverty incidence rate) has the largest absolute number of urban poor, poverty incidence is highest in
provincial towns.     Rural areas and small towns suffer from unreliable supplies of energy and gas,
inadequate infrastructure, and weak access to basic health and education services.         Lack of reliable
electricity supply is one of the major factors discouraging investment in the regions outside Baku.
Concentration of activities in the oil and gas sector and the development of related services and
infrastructure in and around Baku add to the increase in the regional differences in living standards. Also,
unemployment and underemployment remain high, particularly among women.                 Among individuals,
children up to 15 years of age face the highest poverty risk. As far as household poverty is concerned,
poverty risk decreases with the education level of a household head. Particularly vulnerable are household
with many children--those with 3 and more children experience the highest poverty risk of all households.

During the first year of SPPRED implementation monitoring of poverty impact has been developed
substantially.   The May 2004 SPPRED Progress report discusses the relevance of the Millenium
Development Goals (MDGs) for Azerbaijan and reports on a range of related monitoring indicators.

Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) of the Nagorno Karabakh conflict, who lack assets and depend heavily
on state transfers, are particularly vulnerable and need to be integrated in the Azeri society. The conflict
resulted in nearly 209,000 officially registered refugees from Armenia and about 576,000 officially
registered IDPs. This segment of the population constitutes one of the poor and most vulnerable sections of
the society. The Government has resettled all the refugees in other parts of the country. However, a large
majority continues to live in temporary shelters. The Government has made continued substantial efforts to
resettle those IDPs living in extremely poor conditions to new settlements financed through the Oil Fund
(e.g., $47 million in 2004).

Supported by IBTA-II, advisors worked with the Government on a detailed program for the social
assistance reform, and according to a Cabinet-approved Letter of Intent stipulating the implementation
schedule together with the concomitant utility sector reform. A Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA)
has been completed concerning the utility sector reform. SAC-II also acted as a catalyst to establish the
new Pension and Social Assistance Project and reform program and as the linkage with the utility sector
reform described below. With regards to social assistance, the Government's program is now supported by
the IDA Pension and Social Assistance Project approved in June 2004. This includes: (i) national roll-out
of the targeting of social assistance benefits based on eligibility assessment taking into account the



                                                    - 12 -

economic and social situation of the applicants; (ii) consolidation of various benefits into a single targeted
family poverty benefit in cash as of 2006 and a significant increase of resources allocated to its financing ;
and (iii) modernization of the capacity of Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population to
administer social assistance benefits using computerized MIS.        Recently a draft framework Law on
Targeted Social Assistance was submitted to the Cabinet.


(Component III) Improving strategic priority setting and transparency of medium-term public expenditure
and investment programs. Substantial

         (a) Published the audited accounts of the Oil Fund in FY 2001; (b) published financial and budget
execution statements quarterly; and (c) completed a review of the Oil Fund's governance arrangement.

The role of the Oil Fund will be a crucial factor in managing the relatively short-lived oil boom in the
future. The Fund provides a financial mechanism for separating commercial decisions on oil extraction
from public spending decisions. It also allows the Government to maintain a degree of continuity in fiscal
programs, especially with regard to the implementation of committed investment projects and programs.
Moreover, it has created greater transparency in the use of oil revenues and in preventing adverse effects of
excessively rapid transfer of oil revenues into the domestic economy. Without new discoveries, oil revenues
are expected to peak in 2011 and return to current levels by 2025. Prudent management of oil windfall in
Azerbaijan requires development of a long-run oil revenue management strategy, which is necessary to
avoid large and destabilizing oil-related foreign exchange inflows.

The Oil Fund Supervisory Board has approved the financial statement for 2001, 2002, and 2003,
respectively, as audited by a reputable international audit firm.       Financial information is published
quarterly, among other places on the State Oil Fund's web-site (www.oilfund.az). The annual budgets of
the Oil Fund have been approved at meetings of its Supervisory Board. The revised 2002 budget and the
approved 2003 and 2004 budgets have been published. The revenues and non-operational expenditures of
the Oil Fund were included in the 2003 and 2004 Consolidated Budgets submitted to the Parliament.
Presidential decree of February 7, 2003, allows the State Oil Company (SOCAR) to retain some of its
earnings for investment, and Oil Fund spending is no longer limited to interest revenues. Good governance
arrangements going beyond the SAC-II conditions were              established with the enactment of the
amendments to the BSL (see above). With the assistance of IDA, a review of the Oil Fund's governance
arrangements was conducted, including: (i) the composition, appointment procedures and responsibilities of
the Supervisory Board; (ii) the execution of the reporting arrangements for the Oil Fund; and (iii) the
priorities and execution of expenditures of the Oil Fund.        Box 1 describes the SOFAZ governance
framework.     Recently Azerbaijan has joined the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI).
These efforts are being led by SOFAZ.


(Component IV) Introducing transparency and financial discipline in the energy sector, including
fiscalization of quasi-fiscal activities. Substantial

         (a) Reduced by 30 percent the subsidies in the electricity, gas, and water sectors through a
combination of better cash collection, tariff adjustments and increased efficiency; and (b) provided evidence
that budgetary institutions have been current with utility payments for at least six months.

Implicit subsidies in 2002 have been reduced by 70 percent relative to 2001 - electricity by 85 percent, gas
by 44 percent, and water by 23 percent. The Resolution of the Cabinet of December 27, 2002, is


                                                     - 13 -

mandating payments to SOCAR on behalf of Azerenergy and Azerigaz for 2002 and thus making the
electricity and gas subsidies explicit. Explicit allocations have been made in the 2003 and 2004 budgets to
cover shortfalls in payments in electricity and gas sectors. Evidence provided by the Ministry of Finance
(MoF) shows that budgetary institutions have been 98 percent current on utility payments in 2002.
Electricity distribution across the country has been privatized through management contracts, which has led
to a significant strengthening in payment discipline among households and commercial enterprises.
Likewise, collections for gas and water services have increased. The remaining implicit subsidy, which
used to be funded by SOCAR in terms of unpaid delivery of fuel, has been made explicit, as fiscal transfers
from the Budget to SOCAR and these are included in the annual Budget Law. However, these explicit
subsidies are still large, and further reforms are ongoing according to the Letter and Intent.



      Box 1. Institutional Framework for the State Oil Fund of the Azerbaijan Republic (SOFAZ)

Supervision and Control
Ø        The three level management structure consists of the President, SOFAZ's Executive Director, and
Supervisory Board. The President appoints members of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Director.
Ø        The Board consists of key government officials (Prime Minister, ministers), two parliamentary
members (nominated by the Speaker), and academia. It is entrusted with the functions of internal supervision
to oversee the composition of the Oil Fund's assets and compliance with the expenditure rules.
Investment Strategy and Operational Management of Assets
Ø        The investment strategy is annually approved by the President based on recommendations of the
Executive Director, taking into account recommendations of the Supervisory Board.
Ø        Operational management is delegated to the Executive Director, who chairs the Investment Board
(internal structure of the Fund).
Ø        Professional portfolio managers may be contracted for a certain portion of the Fund's assets.
Ø        Investment portfolio guidelines determine currency composition, the balance between liquid (up to
40 percent of the portfolio) and long-term investments, and fixed and equity income instruments. Preference
is given to fixed income instruments, while equity income instruments (corporate securities and stakes) are
banned unless a highly reputable professional investment manager is hired to handle them.
Transparency, Accountability, and External Oversight
Ø        A highly reputable international auditor is selected to conduct an annual audit of the Oil Fund's
accounts. The results from the annual report on the use of the funds and the external audit report are
published in the mass media. Pursuant to the Azeri laws, the Chamber of Accounts (the country's Supreme
Audit Institute) may also audit the Fund.
Ø        Quarterly reports produced by the Executive Director shall be submitted to the Supervisory Board
and the President.
Ø        The annual report is prepared in coordination with the Ministry of Finance (MoF). After
recommendations of the Supervisory Board are incorporated, it shall be submitted to the President. The
annual report is posted on the official website of SOFAZ.
Governance of Revenues/Expenditure Rules
Ø        While the ultimate decision-making rests with the President, Oil Fund expenditures (other than its
own operating expenses) are consolidated with the state budget with the monies allocated to the budget and
used for purposes that are consistent with public investment program.
Ø        According to the 2002 Budget Systems Law, and the 2003 amendments to the Law Parliament has
the authority to set the expenditure and deficit ceilings for the Oil Fund.
Ø        All investment expenditures are to be executed through the Treasury.
Ø        Use of the funds is subject to the State Procurement Law, which governs all budgetary
expenditures.
Ø        Investments should be made in projects of national importance; project investments have to be part
of the governmental PIP and MTEF and consistent with the SPPRED.
_____________



                                                         - 14 -

Annual Report 2001, State Oil Fund of the Republic of Azerbaijan, and www.oilfund.az.



         SOCAR, Azerenergy, Azerigaz and ARWC have completed: (a) monthly financial and operational
management information in order to monitor subsidies; (b) annual audited financial statements; and (c) a
time-bound action plan in order to upgrade their financial management arrangements.


In order to monitor implicit subsidies monthly financial and operational management statements from
SOCAR, Azerenergy, Azerigaz and ARWC are provided to the MoF, the IMF and IDA. The 2001 and
2002 audited financial statements have been received from Azerenergy, Azerigaz and ARWC. In the
auditors' opinion, a financial statement of SOCAR would be less meaningful due to ongoing restructuring.
SOCAR, going beyond the condition, has hired a reputable international accounting company to assist with
a complete financial restructuring, and introduction of IFRS, according to terms of reference supported by
IDA. This restructuring is expected to take three years. At the same time EBRD together with USTDA is
supporting corporate restructuring of SOCAR. Also, Azerenergy, Azerigaz and ARWC have submitted
satisfactory action plans. IDA through IBTA-II is supporting plans for restructuring and private sector
involvement in Azerigaz and ARWC. The new Accounting Law recently passed by Parliament provides
the legal basis for the induction of full IFRS in these and other public interest companies during the next
three years.


(Component V) Reducing conflicts of interest and corruption in the business environment, including
enforcement of regulations, separation of regulatory and commercial functions, and tax and customs
modernization. Substantial

         Approved satisfactory draft regulations for electricity, gas and water sectors in order to ensure fair
and competitive behavior.

Satisfactory progress was being made on this condition but, through no fault of its own, the Government
was not able to complete the condition on time and a waiver was granted. The delay has been caused by
the fact that it has taken longer than originally anticipated to get the necessary technical assistance in place.
The PPIAF funded TA project has started on May 12, 2003. In the meantime, the Cabinet approved the
Letter of Intent that stipulates the action plan for the utilities sector reform and concomitant social
assistance reform with clear deadlines between now and 2006. The draft regulations are to be submitted to
Parliament during 2004, with implementation starting in 2005 together with the establishment of an
independent regulatory agency to be fully functioning by 2006. We are working closely together with
USAID on implementation of the action plan.

         (a) Determined appropriate economic prices for electricity, gas, water, wastewater and solid waste
treatment; and (b) approved and published a time-bound action plan to adjust tariffs to economic prices
along with required actions to mitigate social consequences.

A Presidential decree of May 2002 outlines detailed time-bound action plans for restructuring and
strengthening of financial discipline in the energy and water sectors. A progress report was published in
March 2003. The Tariff Council has approved, published, and implemented tariff increases for 2002-2003
as follows: a 20 percent increase in the retail tariff of electricity, a 8.3 percent increase for water and a 17
percent increases for wastewater. The Letter of Intent stipulates the further action plan, and clearly states
the policy will be to fully recover utility supply costs through tariff increases. Further elaboration of the
tariff policy has been formulated by MED together with possible tariff scenarios.                 Despite these



                                                      - 15 -

preparations and the PSIA conclusions, tariff increases nevertheless are a politically sensitive issue.

         Introduced a system to monitor and publish progress in the reduction of barriers to private
investment through annual firm-level surveys by an independent research organization.

In order to improve the investment climate in the country, a Council for Entrepreneurs was established in
2002. The Council meets regularly twice a year with the President of Azerbaijan and its concerns are
followed up. For example, the licensing regime and procedures have been simplified. New laws are being
drafted on: "Investment Activities", "Special Economic Zones and Regulation of their Activities",
"Anti-monopoly Code", as well as the preparation of draft normative documents on improving state
financial support to entrepreneurship. However, more needs to be done for giving voice to the private sector
in the formulation of investment policies; for example, a draft law on the activities of Chamber of
Commerce of the Republic of Azerbaijan is pending approval by the Parliament for the last two years.
FIAS is assisting with periodic business surveys, and a Integrated Non-Oil Trade and Investment Strategy
(Report No. 25818-AZ) has been formulated in collaboration with IDA. IBTA-II is supporting major
technical assistance to MED with the implementation of this strategy.

During the SAC-II program surveys indicate some progress in governance, particularly concerning
corruption and the business environment.                   The most comprehensive governance/investment climate
surveys, including EBRD/IBRD's Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS),
FIAS surveys, the PRS Group's International Country Risk Guide and the Heritage Foundation's
Economic Freedom Survey have all reported improvements in Azerbaijan's investment climate, particularly
in the last three years, albeit from a low base. The 1999 BEEPS ranked Azerbaijan at the bottom of 20
transition economies on measures of state capture and administrative corruption, although the country did
considerably better on other criteria, and on the overall Governance Index it ranked 11th among the 20
countries.   The 2002 BEEPS shows quite a significant improvement, notably in those areas where
Azerbaijan scored poorly in 1999. (See Figure 1.) These trends and those reported in other surveys are
encouraging, but should not be taken as doing much more than providing a promising platform for
continuing efforts to improve the governance, anti-corruption, business environment nexus.

               Figure 1: Qualitative Assessment of the Business Environment in 1999 and 2002


                                                  Access to Financing
                                                             4


                           Corruption                        3                       Quality of Infrastructure

                                                             2


                                                             1

                            Crime                                                          Taxes




                         Quality of Judiciary                              Regulations


                                                        1999           2002


           Source: EBRD and World Bank, Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey, 2002. The
           combined measure of qualitative assessments of the business environment is calculated as an unweighted
           average across seven dimensions. The values range from 1 to 4, with 1 indicating no obstacles to
           business growth and operation, and 4 indicating major obstacles. The extremity of each axis represents a
           score of 4, indicating a less favorable business environment.




                                                               - 16 -

During the SAC-II implementation period, administrative corruption has dropped relatively significantly in
Azerbaijan. (See Figure 2.) Upon completion of SAC-II, especially since March 2004, the Government has
stepped up its legislative efforts for combating corruption. Specifically, the purpose of the recently-passed
"Law on Anti-Corruption" is: "prevention, disclosure, and responding to consequences of corruption-related
offences, protecting social justice, human and citizens rights and freedoms, ensuring favorable conditions
for development of the economy, providing lawfulness, transparency and efficiency of the activity of public
bodies and local municipalities and public officials." Going further, a law on preventing money laundering
and combating the financing of terrorism is being drafted under the auspices of a Commission set up in the
Prime Minister's Office with representation from key ministries, law enforcement agencies, and the
National Bank (NBA). The specific purpose of the envisaged regulations is to comply with the stipulations
of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) established by the IFIs. In its oversight function over the
financial institutions the NBA is adhering to several of the FATF rules such as "know thy customer", and
"tracing the origins of transactions". A Financial Intelligence Unit is also going
to be established. The United States treasury has been assisting the Commission in providing legal advice
and for convening public awareness seminars.

                           Figure 2.--Decline in Administrative Corruption




                     0.8
                     0.6
                     0.4
                     0.2
                        0
                     -0.2
                     -0.4
                     -0.6
                     -0.8
                       -1
                     -1.2
                     -1.4


                                                                                                                                                 CIS-7
                              Armenia              Belarus  Georgia                                     Russia
                                                                                               Moldova                      Ukraine
                                       Azerbaijan                                                               Tajikistan
                                                                       Kazakhstan  Kyrgyzstan                                        Uzbekistan

                                                          Change in average score 1999-2002

                  Source: EBRD and World Bank, Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey, 2002.



Tax administration modernization has continued at a good pace since the completion of the assignment of
IMF's (FAD's) long-term adviser (2000­2002) and the Ministry of Taxes' (MoT's) top management is
committed to ongoing reform. The authorities continue to implement an overall strategy to modernize tax
administration. Supported by SAC-II the activities include: modernizing the basic tax administration
systems and procedures (taxpayer registration, return filing and payment; audit; collection enforcement;
and taxpayer services), strengthening the Large Taxpayer Unit, reorganizing the Ministry along functional
lines, preparing regulations for the administrative aspects of the new tax code, improving VAT
administration (in particular VAT refunds), and designing and implementing a performance monitoring



                                                                     - 17 -

system for tax administration. Since 2003, achievements in tax administration include (i) the reduction in
the number of tax offices from 84 to 14 with overall staff numbers reduced by 40 percent; (ii) the
implementation of a functional structure in local tax offices; and (iii) the implementation of improved
structure and processes in the Large Taxpayer Unit. The MoT is receiving assistance from the U.S.
Treasury Office of Technical Assistance in specific areas (e.g., taxpayers services and information
technology strategic planning).

Over the past several years, FAD has also provided advice on customs administration. An April 2000
FAD mission conducted a diagnosis of the State Customs Committee (SCC) organization and procedures,
and prepared a plan of action for its reform and modernization. Significant progress was made in 2001 and
the authorities issued a tender for an external evaluation of SCC organization and procedures. This
evaluation was completed April 2002. Based on this, the government prepared two reform action plans: a
short-term plan (up to end-2002) and a medium-term plan (up to end-2004), which was supported by
SAC-II. The short-term plan has completed important trade facilitation measures consistent with WTO.
The eight measures of the medium-term plan are as follows: (i) organizing a workshop on Effectiveness of
Information Technologies (June 2003); (ii) ensuring that duties and taxes on imports are automatically
recorded in the central customs database (June 2003); (iii) introducing an automated system to provide
electronic control over export, import and transit goods (end-2003); (iv) replacing specific customs duty
rates with ad valorem rates (April 2004); (v) creating a national and regional database on temporary goods
and means of transportation and introducing a relevant search system (end-2003); (vi) introducing an
automated system for customs clearance and control (end-2004); (vii) finalizing the design of an automated
system for risk detection and management (end 2004); and (viii) strengthening the automatic exchange of
information between the SCC and the MoT (end 2004). Measures up of end-2003 have been accomplished
according to plan, but the status of the measures since early 2004 is yet to be reviewed.

Since 2002, revenues from the MoT have increased (both as a percentage of GDP and of non-oil GDP),
while revenue collection from the SCC have been broadly stable (using the same two measures). However,
it is difficult to evaluate the positive impact of the administrative reform measures since during the same
period, many tax policy changes have occurred; these sometimes imply revenue losses (e.g., the significant
reduction in the average weighted tariff).


(Component VI) Improving transparency, financial discipline, and competition in the banking sector.
Modest

The banking sector in Azerbaijan is small, and competition remains stifled. The total assets at end-2002
amounted to AZM 4.1 billion (about US$844 million). The banking system has 46 commercial banks with
individual banks' assets amounting to an average of about US$7.4 million (excluding the two largest
banks). The two state banks, IBA and United Universal Bank (called BUSBank) dominate the system
accounting for over 60 percent of banking system assets, almost all of it on the account of IBA, and over
70 percent of deposits. There are currently 15 banks with some foreign capital, accounting for 15 percent
of total assets of the banking system. Five of these banks have majority foreign ownership (over 50
percent), and another two are Azerbaijan branches of non-resident banks. Entry of reputable foreign banks
had been discouraged by a limit imposed on the foreign share of total banking sector capital. Increasing
foreign investment and capitalization level of the banking system, the NBA has gone beyond SAC-II and
cancelled the limit completely. Moreover, one of the most active segments of the banking market is that for
payment services, where the Government is a major player (e.g., social security payments, salary payments
for civil servants); the tendency to engage state banks for the provision of these services leads to
monopolistic rents for these banks.


                                                     - 18 -

The restructuring of the banking sector had a modest start with the liquidation of three state-owned banks,
whereby good assets of the three banks were moved to create a new Bank, BUSBank, with a provisional
banking license. Since then, the NBA has pursued the objective of strengthening the private banking sector
by forcing either bank exits or mergers through minimum capital requirements (from previously US$2.5
million to US$5 million in 2004). To address the problem with payment services, the government is
planning to issue tenders for the provision of banking services to the government. Progress is being made in
strengthening the surveillance capacity of the NBA (including an IFRS-based commercial bank reporting
system) and the provision of TA for on-site examination. In this context, a new and advanced law, "On
Banks," has been adopted in 2004. This law meets the principles of the Basel Committee on Bank
supervision and is consistent with international experience. Enforcing this law would allow for exercising
effective mechanisms for banks' entry and exit, and administration and supervision of banking activities.

The basic regulatory framework for bank supervision has been put in place by the issuance of 13 new or
revised prudential regulations. However, some regulations, such as those concerning loan loss provisioning
and asset classification, may need to be revised to bring them fully in line with international best practice.
Recently, a newer version of "rules on classification of assets and creation of reserves for paying out
possible losses" is being applied based on the advice and TA from the IMF and USAID. Regarding another
unresolved issue pertaining to the governance structure of the NBA and the assignment of oversight of its
functions a new draft law, On the National Bank, strengthens the external oversight function as well as the
supervision capability of NBA.

(Component VII) Improving the privatization process.. Modest

Privatization of state banks was the key step in advancing the next stage of banking system restructuring,
but there have been considerable delays because of political resistance to privatization. Important progress
should have been made with the finalization of planned acquisition by the EBRD of a 20 percent equity
stake in IBA. A Memorandum of Understanding with EBRD was signed in June 2003, but pre-privatization
assessment and valuation of IBA are still to be completed. Similarly, little progress has been made so far
in the privatization of BUSBank.

On the more positive side, six state enterprises (Mughan hydropower plant, Shaki hydropower plant,
Diploma, Ltd., Baku Steel Factory, Azerelektoterm, and Dashkasan Ore-Dressing Plant) have been
privatized in 2003 through investment competition. In the same year, state shares of four joint ventures
have also been privatized. According to the Presidential Order of March 2003, several enterprises of
machine-building and conversion sectors have been declared open to privatization. Overall so far, about
30,000 small enterprises have been privatized, while over 1,500 medium and big enterprises have been
turned into joint stock companies in recent years. Finally, based on the experience gained from the
management of electricity distribution in the country, IBTA-II is supporting private participation in the gas
and water sectors.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Net present value/economic rate of return is not applicable to adjustment loans/credits.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Financial rates of return are not calculated for adjustment operations.




                                                     - 19 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Substantial

The institutional development impact has been substantial given the huge challenge of creating in a
relatively short span the institutional base and regulatory infrastructure for Azerbaijan to become a
successful market economy with an efficient public sector. There is also no dearth of indigenous human
capital especially in the core ministries and agencies. Noteworthy examples of building institutional
capacity in the country include: SOFAZ, budget formulation, MTEF, poverty monitoring, the supreme
audit function, as well as Tax and Customs modernization, and none the least, the SPPRED secretariat.

Further and as indicated above, according to the 2003 CPIA ratings (an average of 20 indicators),
Azerbaijan excels the average for IDA borrowers. Of particular note are the high marks received for
economic management: (a) management of inflation, macroeconomic balances; (b) fiscal policy; (c)
management of external and domestic public debt; and (d) management and sustainability of the
development program. In 2000 the CPIA governance indicators were at the bottom. Governance has since
improved markedly with the contribution of SAC-II and the intensified dialogue it created between the
Government and the Bank. In 2003 the CPIA governance indicator had improved to above the IDA
average.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The Government had planned to approve satisfactory draft regulations for electricity, gas, and water
sectors to ensure fair and competitive behavior--one of the core conditions for the second tranche release of
SAC-II. However, through no fault of its own, the Government was unable to make enough headway in
meeting this conditionality, and the Bank requested a waiver of this condition to disburse the credit's second
tranche in June 2003. Essentially, the delay had been caused by the fact that it had taken longer than
originally anticipated to get the necessary TA in place. The PPIAF-funded TA project started only in May
2003. In the meantime, the Cabinet approved a Letter of Intent outlining the action plan for the utilities
sector reform and concomitant social assistance reform. The TA for the draft regulations is now under
completion; and the draft Law is to be submitted to the Parliament by end-2004, with implementation
expected to begin in 2005.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Under IBTA II, an overall consultancy approach was envisaged to support the Chamber of
Accounts--including assistance on audit practices and standards, professional, technical, and management
training, developing and implementing an information strategy, and advice on the organization and human
resource management through services provided by a consulting firm.            However, the funds that the
Government was willing to borrow as part of IBTA-II were substantially less than the estimated need by
the CoA. It was therefore necessary to seek alternative funding arrangement for unfunded components of
the capacity building assistance, which caused some delay. Nevertheless, a qualified consultant company
has now started its work, the resident advisor is in place, and the work plan satisfactory to IDA according
to a recent supervision mission.

For the reform of the banking system, particularly for strengthening supervision of the industry, faster
progress would be welcome with enacting necessary regulations in conformity with the Basle principles, as
well as enactment of the law On the National Bank..


                                                     - 20 -

The quasi-fiscal deficit in the utilities sector has been addressed by bringing formerly implicit subsidies on
the books of the Budget as explicit subsidies. Much needs to be done to reduce untargeted utility subsidies,
better target social assistance to the poor, and increase resources for health and education as institutional
capacity is built and governance strengthened.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

A broad-based poverty reduction program (as outlined in SPPRED, PRGF, and SAC-II) needs intense
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination and frequent dialogue among the implementing
agencies--beyond the standard bureaucratic practices. Examples would be maintaining of consistency
between the PIP and MTEF, empowering line ministries to effectively participate in the budget preparation
process, adoption of coherent strategies for utilities pricing and targeted assistance for the poor. The
implementing agency, in this case the Prime Minister's Office, should be entrusted with more powers (not
essentially control) for ensuring the quality of regular progress monitoring, reporting, and accountability
functions of the programs.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely

There is low probability of a reversal of the reform measures supported by SAC-II.                 Nevertheless,
questions persist about accelerating the momentum of the reform agenda: particularly of the required
persistence of political will at all levels of the Government, and regarding the "quality" of implementation
of the next steps envisaged in the program. Such impediments can be resolved through a proactive
engagement of the IFIs in policy dialogue with the Government, building a constituency of core reformers
in the country, and continued financial support. On its part, the Bank has outlined--in the FY03-05 CAS--a
balanced combination of policy based assistance (PRSCs), complementary investment projects, institution
building TA on the pattern of IBTA-II, a thorough policy dialogue, and extensive analytical work. Beyond
2005, as oil revenues start rising very rapidly, the Bank's (and for that sake the Fund's) role in
Azerbaijan's development will depend even more critically on giving the right advice at the right time.

Another set of question marks pertains to maintaining a viable investment climate especially in the non-oil
sectors. However, significant improvements in the business environment and the governance indicators as
captured in the BEEPS serve as mitigating factors.

There is always the possibility of negative exogenous factors and adverse external developments:
specifically, a sharp drop in energy prices might lead the Government to divert its attention to dealing with
short-term revenue crisis at the expense of pursuing a longer-term reform program. Nonetheless, the risks
inherent in the volatility of energy prices are partially reduced by the Government's adoption to date of a
prudent fiscal stance, the establishing of the Oil Fund, and its strategy of facilitating the development of the
non-oil sector. Finally, earlier doubts about the scheduled progress of the BTC oil export pipeline are no
longer valid; the construction of the pipeline is well underway with financing secured from various sources
including major IFC and EBRD involvement.




                                                      - 21 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory

The SAC-II team managed to build new relationships and trust between Azerbaijan and the Bank. There
was no clear-cut and urgent financing need for a country endowed with large oil resources. The Bank's
assistance was more as a facilitator of change in the country's transition to a growing market economy.
The reform package was prepared with close collaboration of the key implementing agencies in the
Government, and managed to create a new vision and agenda for development as expressed in the
SPPRED.      Indeed, the Bank did not "push through" a financing package without the Government's
demonstrated credibility toward accelerating the reform agenda. Especially important was the Bank's
partnership with the IMF and other donors in formulating and implementing a coherent set of policies.

The Bank showed its flexibility by changing the original PSRAC design. When the new SAC-II team took
over, it spent much time in the beginning simply listening to a wide range of senior Government officials,
business representatives, and civil society. It carefully gauged in what areas consensus and ownership
could be built. The team did this while jump-starting the PRSP process at the same time.

The Bank demonstrated its diligence throughout the multi-stage review process involving the QER, ROC,
and exceptional scrutiny of the OC. Economic and sector work (ESW) was flexibly rescheduled and
advanced to improve the analytical underpinning in fiduciary and public expenditure management areas
(PER, CPAR, CFAA). Out of that grew new important reform agendas supported by SAC-II.

The Bank carefully designed the support for implementation of the reform program and backed it up with
IBTA and IBTA-II, and, very importantly, with extensive coordination of TA programs of other IFIs and
donors.


7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory

Given the complex nature of the reform program, frequent supervision reports--related to both SAC-II and
IBTA-II--by the Bank team highlighted the pace of achievements and suggested remedial actions for
stumbling blocks in individual components of the credit. The Bank showed flexibility in waiving one core
condition (i.e., reforming the utilities sector) for the release of the second tranche as the necessary TA
(PPIAF) had taken longer than anticipated. This issue was ultimately resolved through Bank team's
intervention and the Government taking the necessary steps toward an action plan for the utilities sector.

Most of all, a tightly knit country team involving all sectors, and creating the synergy between the SAC-II
high-level reform agenda and supporting sector projects was the formula for success. Supervision of
SAC-II was felt as a responsibility by the whole country team, and integrated with most other Bank work in
the Azerbaijan, whether sector projects or ESW. The staff of the Country Office, and especially the
Country Manager, played a crucial role in the dialogue with the Government and the ultimate successful


                                                     - 22 -

outcome. (The supervision cost of SAC-II recorded in SAP is misleading. The actual time and money
spent was very substantial, but always integrated with other work in order to reap cost efficiencies).

The SAC-II team coordinated its work closely with IMF. At one point in December 2002 the PRGF was in
danger of going off track, due to divergence in the Fund's and Government's approaches to the fiduciary
arrangements surrounding the Oil Fund. The Bank team designed and negotiated an alternative approach,
which led to the aforementioned amendments to the BSL strengthening horizontal accountability with
Parliamentary approval of the consolidated State Budget including Oil Fund expenditures. Similarly, close
coordination with EBRD led to an improved approach to sustained development of financial accounting
practices and organizational renewal of SOCAR.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory

The Bank recognized it was taking a high risk engaging in a turnaround case like Azerbaijan. It would
have been much easier to sit back and do nothing. Indeed, the more risk adverse elements in the Bank
almost won. In hindsight, the results of SAC-II, as demonstrated above, show that the risk was worth
taking.   These results were achieved by the Bank repeatedly demonstrating to the Government of
Azerbaijan that it could bring value-added to the table, despite the lack of immediate financing needs.

A closely knit country team brought through SAC-II and complementary sector projects in education,
health, social assistance and pensions, financial sector TA, rural development and agriculture, environment,
energy, water, and transport. Technical assistance across these areas is provided through IBTA-II.

Concurrent ESW include a large number of formal and informal analytical works. Among other things, the
country team completed the Integrated Non-Oil Trade and Investment Strategy (INOTIS) in November
2003, the Public Expenditure Review in December 2002, the Poverty Assessment in June 2003, the CPAR
in July 2003, the CFAA in September 2003, and with the Fund, a Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP) in February 2004. Azerbaijan's recent Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) has noted
that the overall portfolio is in good shape.

The country team also provided extensive value-added to the SPPRED, thereby setting in motion a
participatory process of policy formulation and priority setting, and shaping Azerbaijan's development
agenda in a socially and environmentally conscious manner as the country enters a new era of resource
abundance.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory

Within the Government there was a small group of reformers that arose to power in the late 1990s and
early 2000s. This group saw the benefit of working with the Fund and the Bank on furthering reforms,
strengthening governance and accountability, and opening Azerbaijan up to the market economy. During
the preparation of SAC-II this group managed to bring wider consensus and backing around the PRGF and
SAC-II programs. As SAC-II went through several rounds of revisions during the extensive review
process, the Government showed great flexibility and professionalism in accommodating the Bank's
concerns. At the end the Government's ownership of the program led to its results.



                                                    - 23 -

At the same time the Government started in earnest its PRSP process. The I-PRSP presented in June 2001
to the Bank and IMF laid the foundations for SPPRED 2003-05 as the first full PRSP of Azerbaijan. The
Programme represented an important milestone in the Government's ongoing efforts to elaborate a
comprehensive and homegrown strategy for poverty alleviation and economic growth, and provided the
basis for a sustained involvement of the international development community in providing concessional
assistance.

The SPPRED was formulated through a participatory approach, manifested in encouragement and
facilitation of the involvement of decision makers, civil society, and IFIs. The activities undertaken at the
implementation stage in 2003 took various forms. A series of regional workshops were held in six different
regions of the Republic. These workshops provided a forum where government officials and civil society
representatives could exchange views on the measures most appropriate for having a poverty reduction
impact at the national and local level. Discussions with representatives of the mass media and wide
dissemination of information using the media helped raise public awareness of SPPRED. A series of joint
activities with NGOs aimed at promoting the participation of certain target groups that also included
various training initiatives for local communities in the development of their regions. Fifteen sector working
groups were established in the respective ministries, whose inputs and efforts were then coordinated in the
PRSP Secretariat created under MED. Consequently, with the SPPRED, the Government was able to
identify priority public actions as well as attempt at the costing and sequencing of poverty-reducing
policies.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory

Aside from effectively managing the resources derived from the oil wealth (through the creation of the Oil
Fund), maintaining macroeconomic stability, and turning around economic growth in the current decade,
the Government has met (and even exceeded) compliance with policy conditionalities of SAC-II.

The Government again showed its flexibility and professionalism during implementation, e.g., by amending
the BSL to address fiduciary concerns. Achievements of five out of seven key components of SAC-II are
rated substantial, and the government's implementation experience should be rated as at least satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory

The Prime Minister's Office has played a critical role in facilitating dialogue and coordination with the
international development community. Further, the Office (as the implementing agency for SAC-II) has
been instrumental in pressing for the Government's enactment of requisite laws/decrees supported by
detailed regulations.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory

With SAC-II and the SPPRED the Government has set in motion a likely sustainable process of reforms in
Azerbaijan with the aim of managing the revenues of the oil and gas resources for the benefit of all citizens



                                                     - 24 -

and with special emphasis on the poor and IDPs. It has demonstrated it prudence in macroeconomic
management, and its resolve in implementing a complex package of structural reforms.

8. Lessons Learned

- As shown by the experience of Azerbaijan, adjustment lending can be a powerful instrument even for
countries that do not need Bank's financing for immediate balance of payments or budget purposes. The
policy reform package--and --was crucial in jump-starting and giving direction to the Government's
development program. The concomitant requirement for prior actions and/or conditionality for tranche
disbursements contributed to greater coordination across the Government and keeping the discipline with
implementation.    Equally important, this support provided a signal of confidence in the country's
transformation process and assisted in the mobilization of additional investments--both domestic and
foreign.

- An ambitious, complex, and demanding agenda (as in the case of SAC-II) seeking to accomplish extensive
behavioral changes in a transition economy in a short period of time necessitates a trusting partnership
between the Bank team and the Government's counterparts on the one hand; and on the other, consistency
of advice and coordination of efforts amongst multilateral agencies and bilateral donors.         Thorough
assessment of ownership and institutional capacity for each reform component is crucial. Extensive review
Bank-wide can be very helpful, while the Bank should to be ready to take risks in turnaround cases.

- Government ownership of policy reforms is a dynamic concept; it can reinforce itself or dwindle over
time. This issue has particular relevance for policy-based lending in uncertain political situations. The
program design should take cognizance of the extent of broad-based consensus amongst policymakers and
civil society, and engage the top leadership early on. Flexibility is also needed on the part of the country
team to negotiate unanticipated stumbling blocks. Frequent Bank-country dialogue with the continuity and
dedication of a well-coordinated country team throughout the tenure of the program helps to reinforce the
Government's commitment. The Country Office staff is vital in providing this continuity and dedication.

- Programmatic assistance (as contemplated by the PRSP process) should not be viewed just as
medium-term and time-bound external support. Development effectiveness stems from continuous policy
dialogue underpinned by extensive sector projects and ESW integrated within a coherent multi-sector
program. Adjustment operations can play a crucial integrative role in paving the way for sector projects in
achieving the necessary high-level decisions and providing the appropriate legal and strategic policy
framework.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Formal comments from the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, through the Prime Minister's
Office, were requested from the concerned ministries and agencies.

The following ministries/agencies had no objections or proposals to the document: Ministry of Finance,
State Agency on Procurements of Azerbaijan Republic, and Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of
Population.

The Ministry of Economic Development proposed some corrections in the "Country assistance context"
(section 2), which have been made in the text.




                                                   - 25 -

The State Oil Fund--while commending the ICR for its accurate description of the progress of
SAC-II--suggested the inclusion in the Report also of a number of actions taken by the government. The
examples have been added to the relevant section.

The National Bank of Azerbaijan made several references to the recent initiatives regarding "Achievements
of Objective and Outputs" [sections 4 (f) and (g)]. These have been incorporated in the document.

The Chamber of Accounts had several clarifications related to Section 5.2 of the ICR, which were taken
into account. The CoA noted:

 First, we must note that the tender arranged by the tender commission for the IBTA II Credit at the
 Ministry of Economic Development on April 3, 2003 for appointment of a consultant for Chamber of
 Accounts as a participant of the SAC-II has been awarded to the Australian company IDP.
 Implementation of the tender was possible only after enacting the Credit Agreement of IBTA II Project
 between IDA and the Government of the Azerbaijan Republic on December 24, 2002.

 Second, the consultant company has valued its work to be $803,400. But, there is only $620,000
 allocated for this purpose by IBTA II Project. Considering that the "Consulting Services" component of
 IBTA II Project is more important for us, to cover the emerging deficit, the Chamber of Accounts applied
 to the Azerbaijan Republic's Cabinet of Ministers for cutting out the insufficient fund from the
 "Information Provision" component of $300,000. After receiving the respective no-objection, a contract
 was signed on December 10, 2003 between the Chamber of Accounts and IDP for the provision of
 Consulting Services. Foreign consultants have started working from March 2004.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Several other international institutions, advisory agencies, and bilateral donors (including Asian
Development Bank, DFID, EBRD, European Union/TACIS, FIAS, ILO, IMF, Islamic Development Bank,
Swiss Trust Funds, UNICEF, USAID, United States Treasury) are active players in providing substantial
resources and TA in support of the Government's reform and development efforts.

10. Additional Information

The Bank intends to embark upon a series of programmatic credits (Poverty Reduction Support Credits) to
Azerbaijan over the next three years, with the following strategic goals: (a) managing the oil boom; (b)
generating jobs and sustainable non-oil growth; (c) improving social services and infrastructure; (d)
realizing oil and gas potential; and (e) implementing SPPRED: outcomes, monitoring, and institutional
capacity building.




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Not applicable to adjustment loans/credits, but the framework has been adapted and/or imputed to the progress
achieved under the current operation--SAC II.

           COMPONENT                          ISSUES and EXPECTED                    OUTPUTS/ OUTCOMES
                                                  ACHIEVEMENTS                        (as of closing of SAC II:
                                                     under SAC II                       December 31, 2003)
I. Improve transparency and             Strengthening of the legal basis for   - Approval in 2002 of the Law on
accountability in public financial      sound budgetary practices and          "Budget System"; the regulations are
management, including the               procedures and operational efficiency in keeping with international
establishment of the supreme audit                                             standards and intended to improve
institution                                                                    budget forecasting and rationalization
                                                                               of budget expenditure

                                        Establishment of a comprehensive       - Enactment of the New State
                                        public procurement system that is      Procurement Law in accordance with
                                        suitable for a market economy, and     international principles; and further
                                        introduction of competition into the   progress is being made in institutional
                                        system                                 development of the State Procurement
                                                                               Agency toward initiating
                                                                               E-government

                                        Establishment of a functioning         - Establishment of COA, which serves
                                        supreme audit institution              as the supreme audit institution, and
                                                                               whose jurisdiction extends to include
                                                                               the operations of the consolidated
                                                                               budget as well as extra-budgetary
                                                                               funds
II. Strengthen the tracking of          Achieving adequate efficiency of       - Extension of SPPRED with a
poverty-reducing expenditures, and      scarce public resources, and adequate full-fledged secretariat in MED
monitoring of expenditure impact on protection of the poor; monitoring of including a poverty monitoring unit,
poverty                                 incidence of poverty and impact of     and an elaborate poverty-reduction
                                        public policies on poverty; attaining  strategy; overall goals have been
                                        substantial improvement in the         identified, and the next stage is the
                                        services for the poor                  setting of concrete targets and
                                                                               indicators using the new absolute
                                                                               poverty line and reporting the results
                                                                               based on the improved 2002
                                                                               methodology and household budget
                                                                               survey

                                                                               - Conducting of the first national
                                                                               Labor Force Survey in 2003 to
                                                                               monitor employment in the formal
                                                                               and informal sector, together with a
                                                                               survey of the living conditions of
                                                                               IDPs in selected regions
III. Improve strategic priority setting Establishment of a legal and           - Enactment in 2003 of amendments
and transparency of medium-term         institutional framework for: (a)       to the Budget Systems Law, which
public expenditure and investment       preparation, execution, audit, and     subjected the consolidated budget
programs                                reporting of the annual Oil Fund       (including State Oil Fund
                                        budget; (b) prudential regulations for expenditures) to parliamentary



                                                         - 27 -

                                    Oil Fund portfolio management; and approval
                                    (c) Oil Fund public expenditures
                                    channeled through the consolidated
                                    State Budget and included in PIP
                                    and/or a medium-term expenditure
                                    program                                - Establishment of the PIP unit in
                                                                           MED, with the MOF beginning to
                                    Linking of the annual budget with      formulate annual budgets through the
                                    MTEF; establishment of a more          MTEF mechanism
                                    integrated framework for public
                                    expenditures, as well as project and
                                    program evaluation capacity
IV. Introduce transparency and      Improvement in the collection rates    - Preparation completed of a program
financial discipline in the energy  for water, electricity, and gas from   to eliminate subsidies from the energy
sector, including fiscalization of  budget organizations as well as from and water sectors within five years.
quasi-fiscal activities             industries                             Previously implicit subsidies are now
                                                                           explicitly accounted for in the State
                                    Strengthening of the financial         budget
                                    discipline of SOCAR and other SOEs
                                    in the electricity, gas, and water
                                    sectors                                - The SOEs now preparing monthly
                                                                           financial and operational
                                                                           management information to monitor
                                                                           implicit subsidies and audited
                                                                           financial statements
V. Reduce conflicts of interest and Increased separation of regulatory and- Remedying shortcomings persisting
corruption in the business          commercial functions of state-run      in the functioning (including legal
environment, including enforcement companies                               framework, operation and ownership)
of regulations, separation of                                              of the transport sector, particularly
regulatory and commercial functions,                                       air, maritime, and rail transportation,
and tax and customs modernization                                          is underway through drafting of
                                                                           necessary laws in 2004

                                    Provision of efficient protection for  - A medium-term strategy for
                                    poor families, through removal of      minimizing the negative social
                                    costly tariff subsidies and lax paymentimpact of the reform of the utilities
                                    policies                               sector through the provision of a
                                                                           commensurate safety net for the
                                                                           affected consumers is formulated; a
                                                                           draft law on targeting social
                                                                           assistance has been submitted to
                                                                           COM

                                    Development of the country's non-oil - A Council of Entrepreneurs
                                    sector (i.e., growth in industry and   established in 2002, along with the
                                    agriculture)                           drafting of laws and normative
                                                                           documents on improving investment
                                                                           climate and state financial support to
                                                                           entrepreneurship and the private
                                                                           sector. Regular surveys show
                                                                           significant improvement in the
                                    Improving of transparency and          business environment and investment
                                    accountability in tax and customs      climate.



                                                     - 28 -

                                      administration
                                                                              - (i) new tax code and more
                                                                              uniformity in tariff schedule; (ii) the
                                                                              reduction in the number of tax offices
                                                                              from 84 to 14 with overall staff
                                                                              numbers reduced by 40 percent; (iii)
                                                                              the implementation of a functional
                                                                              structure in local tax offices; (iv) the
                                                                              implementation of improved structure
                                                                              and processes in the Large Taxpayer
                                                                              Unit; and (v) eight measures for
                                                                              Customs modernization including
                                                                              automation of procedures and
                                                                              computerization of valuation systems,
                                                                              risk detection and management.
VI. Improve transparency, financial   Strengthening, restructuring, and       Progress is needed in the reform of
discipline, and competition in the    privatization of the banking sector,    the banking sector ownership,
banking sector                        particularly, reduction in domination improvements in competition, and the
                                      of state banks and moving toward        oversight structure of NBA.
                                      increased competition                   Measures for the liquidation of three
                                                                              state-owned banks, and the
                                                                              strengthening of the basic regulatory
                                                                              framework for banking supervision
                                                                              and surveillance capacity (including
                                                                              an IAS-based commercial bank
                                                                              reporting system) have been taken.

                                                                              Obstacles for wholly-own foreign
                                                                              bank investment have been removed.
VII. Improve the privatization processAllowing of increased participation     - As illustrated by the 2002 BEEPS, a
                                      by the private sector through           significant improvement in the
                                      continuous investment, upgrading,       overall business environment;
                                      and technology transfer on a scale      privatization of six industrial SOEs
                                      needed for developing the non-oil       through investment competition as
                                      sector and improving the provision of well as of about 30,000 small
                                      utilities and infrastructure facilities enterprises while over 1,500 medium
                                                                              and large enterprises being declared
                                                                              open to privatization

                                                                              - However, delay in the privatization
                                                                              of state banks (notably, of the planned
                                                                              acquisition of a 20 percent EBRD's
                                                                              stake in IBA and the envisaged
                                                                              privatization of BUSBank)




                                                        - 29 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
      Component                Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                           Bank       Govt.      CoF.       Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank    Govt.  CoF.
IDA SAC II                 60.00      0.00       0.00      60.00      0.00       0.00    100.0    0.0    0.0




  SDR 48.4 million (US$60 million equivalent) on IDA terms, with 35 years maturity, including a 10 year
  grace period. Disbursement in two equal tranches: the first tranche of US$30 million equivalent upon
  effectiveness of the credit, and the second tranche of US$30 million equivalent upon satisfactory
  implementation of policy measures to be completed by end-2002.




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic costs and benefits are not calculated for adjustment loans/credits.




                                                   - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               2000-2001                 1     Economist                            S               S
                                         2     Private Sector Development           S               S
                                         3     Energy Sector                        S               S
                                         1     Water Sector                         S               S
                                         1     Education                            S               S
                                         1     Health                               S               S
                                         2     Social Protection                    S               S
                                         1     Refugees' Specialist                 S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               2001-2002                 1     Economist                            S               S
                                         2     Procurement                          S               S
                                         2     Financial Management                 S               S
                                         2     Private Sector Development           S               S
                                         3     Energy Sector                        S               S
                                         1     Water Sector                         S               S
                                         1     Education                            S               S
                                         1     Health                               S               S
                                         2     Social Protection                    S               S
                                         1     Refugees' Specialist                 S               S

 Supervision
               2002-2003                  2    Economists                           S               S
                                          1    Procurement                          S               S
                                          1    Financial Management                 S               S
                                          2    Private Sector Development           S               S
                                          3    Energy Sector                        S               S
                                          1    Water Sector                         S               S
                                          1    Education                            S               S
                                          1    Health                               S               S
                                          2    Social Protection                    S               S

 ICR
               2004                      1     Consultant                           S               S
                                         1     Economist                            S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               62.5                            360
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    31.2                            180
  Supervision                                 25                           125



                                               - 32 -

 ICR                                             6                           23.5
 Total                                       124.7                          688.5
Note: To achieve cost efficiency Bank supervision of SAC II was carried out during missions on
complementary sector projects and ESW, and the supervision cost recorded in SAP does not reflect the
substantive input of the country team.




                                                  - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


- Azerbaijan: Country Assistance Strategy, November 29, 1999.

- Azerbaijan: Country Assistance Evaluation (Report No. 21459), November 30, 2000.

- Implementation Completion Report on the First Structural Adjustment Credit (Report No. 21502),
December 15, 2000.

- Report and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive Directors on a Proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Credit in the amount of SDR 48.4 million (US$ 60 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Azerbaijan (Report No. P7512-AZ), February 13, 2002.

- Azerbaijan: Public Expenditure Review (Report No. 25233-AZ), April 3, 2003.

- Republic of Azerbaijan: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment of the
PRSP--State Programme on Poverty Reduction and Economic Development (2003-2005), April 15, 2003.

- Azerbaijan: Country Assistance Strategy, April 29, 2003.

- Republic of Azerbaijan: Country Procurement Assessment Report (Report No. 26778-AZ), June 2003.

- Azerbaijan: Country Financial Accountability Assessment (Report No. 26995), September 30, 2003.

- Azerbaijan--Building Competitiveness: An Integrated Non-Oil Trade and Investment Strategy (Report
No. 25818-AZ), November 20, 2003.

- State Programme on Poverty Reduction and Economic Development: Draft Annual Progress
Report--2003, Baku-2004.

- Complete project documentation/correspondence on file.




                                                  - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Consultations for the Preparation of ICR

List of Officials from the Government, Agencies, and Others Interviewed During Mission
to Baku, April 19-24, 2004, and at Headquarters


World Bank and IMF

Robert J. Anderson, formerly Lead Economist, ECA Region
Mansour Farsad, Senior Economist, ECSPE
Farid Mamedov, Operations Officer, Baku Country Office
Akbar Noman, former Country Manager, Baku
Christian E. Petersen, Lead Economist, ECSPE
John Wakeman-Linn, Deputy Division Chief and Mission Chief for Azerbaijan, IMF



Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan

Office of the President

Vahid Akhundov
State Economic Adviser to the President

Prime Minister's Office/Cabinet of Ministers

Dr. Eng. Nail S. Fataliyev
Deputy Head, Department of Economic and Finance Credit Policy

National Bank of Azerbaijan

Elman Rustamov
Chairman

Vadim A. Khubanov
Deputy Chairman of the Board

Ministry of Finance

Avaz Alekperov
Minister

Mardan H. Mardanov
Head Chief, Main Foreign Economic Relations Department

Ministry of Economic Development

Farhad Aliyev
Minister

Shahin Shadigov
Director, Economical Policy and Forecasting Department


                                                   - 37 -

Ministry of Labour and Social Security of Population

Ali Nagiyev
Minister

Vakhab Mamedov
Head, Department of Employment Policy and Demography

Chamber of Accounts

Namig Nasrullayev
Chairman



Private Sector

Rauf Vezirov
Deputy President
Chamber of Commerce



Other

Keith Clarke
US Department of Treasury--Advisor to the Ministry of Finance




                                                    - 38 -

- 39 -

