Report No. PID8054
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Second Structural ... @
Adjustment Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                       AZPE55131
Borrower                         Government of Republic of Azerbaijan
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economic Development
Contact person: Mr. Farhad Aliev
Minister of Economic Development
Tel: (994-12) 90-24-30
Environment Category             U
Date This PID Updated            November 11, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         October 16, 2002
Projected Board Date             December 4, 2002
Country and Sector Background
During the past five years, Azerbaijan has made significant
progress in securing macroeconomic stability, price and trade
liberalization, as well as land and small-scale enterprise
privatization. Real GDP growth averaged 7.1 percent during 1996-
2000, fueled by large foreign investments in the energy sector
and oil and gas exports. The country is poised to become a
significant energy exporter in the coming decade.
Despite these achievements and favorable prospects, important
challenges need to be overcome if future growth prospects are to
be realized and if resulting growth is to provide for rapid
expansion of employment and income opportunities and a decline in
poverty. Per capita income in 2000 was US$ 670, and roughly one-
quarter of the population was estimated to be living on less than
2 dollars a day. Almost one million people are refugees or
internally-displaced persons. The non-oil sector remains
constrained by slow progress with reforms of large-scale
enterprises, the banking system, and the regulation and operation
of public utilities. Weaknesses in public sector governance and
the judicial system deter non-oil investment. Delivery and
quality of infrastructure and social services have deteriorated,
especially in the rural areas, while large volumes of untargeted
subsidies exist in the utility and financial sectors.
Against this backdrop, and in light of the projected major
increases in oil revenues, the authorities' have two basic
objectives for policy reform in the next few years. The first is
to create a public sector that manages efficiently the country's
natural resource wealth and delivers on key social and economic
services, especially those affecting the poor. The second is to
promote growth and employment in the non-oil sectors.
Objectives and Description



The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-II) follows
a significant intensification of the Government's reform efforts
over the past year, reflected in the approval of an IMF PRGF in
July 2001. The proposed SAC-II will bolster and deepen those
efforts by focusing IDA support on selective areas of the broad
reform agenda outlined in the Government's I-PRSP. The SAC-II
would be complemented by ongoing and planned investment and
technical assistance operations from IDA.
The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC-II) would
support (a) public sector reforms to strengthen policies and
institutions for management of future oil revenues, public
expenditure management, poverty monitoring, social services and
safety nets through better targeting and special initiatives for
refugees and IDPs; (b) accelerated and more broad-based
development of the non-oil sector through continuous diagnosis
and improvement of the business environment, notably governance
aspects; and (c) improved financial discipline and service
delivery in the utility sectors.
Description
In particular, SAC-II will support:
public sector reforms to strengthen: (i) management of future
energy revenues; (ii) policies and institutions for public
expenditure management; and (iii) poverty monitoring, social
services and safety nets, especially for the vulnerable refugee
and internally displaced groups.
accelerating the development of the non-oil sector through
continuous diagnosis and improvement of the investment
environment, and through improving financial discipline and
service delivery in utility sectors. The utility sectors are a
major source of soft-budget constraints, reflected in large
quasi-fiscal losses.
Project Costs and Financing Arrangements
Disbursements from the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit
will be made to an account (Deposit Account) of the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) established at the National Bank of Azerbaijan. The
MOF, which will have in place adequate accounting and financial
management reporting systems for the Deposit Account, will
maintain records of all transactions under the loan in accordance
with sound accounting practices. The Government will submit to
the Bank a monthly receipts and payments account showing the
transactions on the Deposit Account, starting with the receipt of
Bank funds and ending when the balance on the Deposit Account has
been reduced to nil.
Implementation
Monitoring of day-to-day implementation of the measures supported
by the proposed SAC-II will be delegated to a Coordination Team
under the Ministry of Economic Development. The Coordination Team
will prepare the Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation
-2 -



Completion Report within six months of the closing date. Each
implementing institution will designate a Government official
responsible for implementation and reporting to the Coordination
Team and the World Bank Country Office.
Project Coordination
The overall coordination of policy measures would be undertaken
by the Prime Minister, who would be holding periodic meetings
with high-level government officials to assess progress in
implementation. The Bank's resident Country Manager would also
participate in these meetings on a regular basis. Monitoring of
day-to-day implementation of the measures supported by the
proposed SAC-II will be delegated to a Coordination Team under
the Ministry of Economic Development. Each implementing
institution will designate a Government official responsible for
implementation and reporting to the Coordination Team and the
World Bank Country Office. The Coordination Team will prepare the
Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
within six months of the closing date.
Sustainability
The advent of the PRSP process in 2000 provided an important
opportunity for the IMF and World Bank to re-engage with the
Government, after a year of difficult dialogue. The Government's
I-PRSP envisages a broad-ranging program that aims to achieve
major reforms in public sector management, the business
environment and social development during the next 2-3 years.
Important measures have already been adopted in a number of
areas, leading to the approval of the PRGF arrangement by the IMF
in July 2001.
However, sustainability and successful implementation of the
reform program being supported by SAC-II are subject to two major
risks: (i) the risk that non-reformers/vested interests frustrate
or delay key elements of the program; and (ii) implementation
delays due to the limited institutional capacity of the
Government. The results already attained in other reforms over
the past 18 months or so, the visible ownership of the program at
the highest political levels, and the growing constituency for
reform being created by the PRSP process are important mitigating
factors. As regards institutional capacity, a broad array of
technical assistance from the Bank and other donors is already in
place. The proposed Second Institution Building Technical
Assistance project will address critical remaining bottlenecks
and ensure transparency in sensitive areas such as the
privatization of the utility entities.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country
The SAC-II is a follow-up operation to the SAC, taking into
account lessons learned from implementation of that credit and
other operations. The SAC credit addressed the issues of
creating competitive markets, notably land, reducing the role of
the state in economic and commercial activities, and developing
an efficient banking system. The SAC had three original
components: (i) trade liberalization; (ii) privatization; and
-3 -



(iii) financial sector reform. The main lessons learned from the
past are: (a) the need for realistic timeframes to bring about
meaningful change, with a corresponding focus on actual reform
outcomes; and (b) the importance of efforts to ensure shared
objectives with the Government and requisite implementation
capacity through complementary technical assistance.
Poverty
The proposed credit will support the Government's efforts to
accelerate structural reform in the context of the PRSP process.
The main objectives of the Government's economic program, as
outlined in the I-PRSP, are to reduce poverty through financial
stability, improved public sector and utilities services and
accelerated private sector development. Reform initiatives are
expected to provide a sound basis for raising employment and real
incomes, and developing a social safety net to protect the
poorest. The I-PRSP was endorsed by Boards of the IMF together
with the PRGF (July 2, 2001) and the Bank (July 5, 2001), in
support of the authorities PRSP process.
The Government is planning to complete a full-fledged PRSP in
2002. It has started to take a strong participatory approach to
preparing, implementing and supervising the PRSP, allowing all
segments of the population to express their views on the
priorities and gain understanding of and commitment to the goals
of the poverty reduction program.
Environmental Aspects
The SAC-II will have no direct impact on the environment.
According to operational Directive 4.01, SAC-II has been placed
in Category U, which does not require an environmental
assessment.
Program Objective Categories
1.      Public Sector - Public Financial Management
2.      Private Sector Development - Business environment, utilities
sector reform
Contact Point:
Christian Petersen, ECSPE
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Office tel.:     (202) 473-3965
Office fax:      (202) 522-2751
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Shop
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 23,2001
- 4 -



